ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please take your jobs. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:01:49]] Registered -407 A total of 407 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations we have 30 minutes to announce requests, statements, messages and proposals by national MPs. I would like to enroll in to make statements and suggestions, while I announce the parliamentary requests that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Vasila Onopenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the improper financing of Ukraine's judicial system. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:02:49]] For-123 Decision taken. Please give us a list of the names of the national MPs who signed up for the speech. Yes, Catherine Samoylik's request to Prime Minister Yanukovic of Ukraine to transfer the railway hospital to Herson's municipal property. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:03:45]] For-94 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. Ask Catherine Samoylik to Prime Minister Yanukovic to expedite the adoption of a decree by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the mechanism for the allocation of 30 per cent compensation for agricultural production. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:22]] For 134 Valentina Seminouk to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the timely provision of clarifications on how to apply the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:50]] For 158. For-153. Decision taken. Anatolia Átovajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of the closure of preschool facilities in the city of Jenakiyev Donetské region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:17]] For-138 Decision taken. Mikoli Polishchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of the rights to health of Ukrainian citizens who travel to countries with visa-free border crossings. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:47]] For 158. Decision taken. Valentina Savitsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of the assets of the Open Shareholders Association of the Stone-Brilliant. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:15.]] For-90 Decision taken. Dmitry Rudkowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the calculation of electricity consumption by a rsystow building facility. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:42]] For 139 Decision taken. Anatoly of Damanski to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation in the stockholder company of the Zitomir chemical fiber plant. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:08]] For 132 Decision taken. Mikoli Polishchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of medical services provided for the payment of public and municipal property. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:37]] For-161 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies - Infantry, Savitsky, Paul Matvienko and others to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory state of production of pancreatic socks in Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:14]] For 106 Decision taken. Mikli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal cessation of state funding for the sole Ukrainian newspaper of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:46]] For-167 Decision taken. Victor Yushchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the increase in the debt of compensation payments to military personnel. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:12]] For-167 Decision taken. Alexander Pecklesenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the broadcast of the third radio program. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:40]] For-166 Decision taken. Group of National Deputies Dubicky, Novak, Olujko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory state of preparation of the agro-industry complex for spring-field work. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:08]] For-173 Decision taken. Viacheslav Kirilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the purpose and circumstances of signing the declaration announced on February 23 in Moscow on behalf of Ukraine, Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:38]] For 133 Decision taken. Alexander Kamenyash to the first Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the compensation of the Radgoose "Vinogradski" of Zacarpathian Region for the social development of the village. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:09]] For 121 Decision taken. Yuri Shirka to the first Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine in connection with the failure of the Young People's Credit Scheme to obtain education in higher education institutions. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:41]] For 177 Decision taken. Vasila Nadrati to Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vitalia Hajduk, on the extension to war veterans of the tax standards for natural gas in heating houses. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:09]] For-163 Decision taken. Andrija Shkila to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of the abuse of duty by officials of the Department of Drug Control of the Galician Police Department of Lviv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:44]] For 124 For 124. Decision taken. Anatolia Átnajka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the theft of funds in the Venice cement plant of the Donetsk Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:12]] For 133 For 133. Decision Adopted Anatolia Domanski to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the situation in the company of the Zitomir chemical fiber plant. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:38]] For 104 Z-104. Decision taken. Anatolia Átnajka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on violations of Ukrainian legislation by officials in the authorities of the State. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:09]] For 124 For 124. Decision taken. Group of National Deputies of Baloga, Ivancho, Mihović, Matviyczuk, to the Attorney General of Ukraine, in connection with the physical dispute over the Zacarpathian District Council, a member of Mukativsky Mesquikonka, an assistant to the Ukrainian National Deputy, the chief physician of the Mukatov District Hospital, Vassuta. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:50]] For 201 For 201. Decision taken. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the attempt to move the "Harmat" monument, built in honor of the soldiers who liberated the city of Tsurupinska. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:21]] For-97 Decision taken. Peter Sabashuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation into the sudden death of the city’s captor, Alexander Polack. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:49]] For 148 The decision has been made. Groups of National Deputies: Tkak, Zvaric, Kostinuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the Chief of Crime Management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Ivano-Frankiv region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:24]] For 128 Decision taken. Gennady Rudek to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine in connection with the violation of the conditions of use of nadra, technological, and environmental requirements when extracting a scream by the Eupatoria City Trade Port. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:56]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine regarding the violation of constitutional rights in the city of Kyrovgrad in connection with the failure to enforce judicial decisions regarding local authorities. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:29]] For 124 Decision taken. Ally Alexandrovsky to the head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine, Head of the State Customs Service of Ukraine, Head of the State Committee for the Protection of the State Border of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the Ukrainian tax administration on the border of Ukraine with Russia. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:04]] For 105 Decision taken. Alexander the Road to the Kiev City Head, head of the Kiev City State Administration, on the problems of providing a disabled family with a land plot to build a residential building. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:34]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Yavorowski to the prosecutor of the Lviv district regarding the legality of the payment for maintenance and maintenance of housing and the city of Zwwwa Lviv district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:04]] For-94 Decision taken. We move on to making requests, statements, messages and suggestions from Ukrainian national deputies. We'll take 30 minutes to do that. Please, Stepan Ilkovich Cloud. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Prepare Gurvis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Anatoly Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u3	Please, Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u4	Volodymyr Mikhailovich and his distinguished colleagues! I want to talk to you with a SOS scream about a situation that has arisen at the level of local self-government. It is no longer an impression, but a firm conviction that the task is to destroy local self - government. This was discussed with pain at the gathering of democratic deputies of all levels, which took place on December 2 in Kiev. In connection with this problem, Vladimir Mikhailovich and his distinguished colleagues received an appropriate address to the Supreme Council. I won't read it. I would like to convey, Vladimir Mikhailovich, this address is official and I would like to ask you to respond accordingly. In addition, I would like to comment on some of the problems that explain the deep concern that has arisen today in local governments. What gives us reason to claim that it is being destroyed? The first is financially. The committee today is overwhelmed by disturbing letters. Today, virtually all local self - government authorities have been sent up to 185 dollars in salary, with 2 billion dollars missing and 237 dollars missing. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we will be discussing the budget today. The Timoshenko project answers the problem. If we don't solve it, we're really going to financially destroy local self-financing. Delegated powers are not funded, and special concerns at the level of cities and towns of regional importance, where administrations are simply engaged in racketeering, budgetary manipulations, especially subsidies and subsidies, are being destroyed by the urban and rural heads who are now in opposition to the current regime. The other one. We have mass facts of the bribery of deputies by positions, intimidation and persecution in order to destroy one or the other of the heads of the city or village who are not subject to the regime today. It's being transformed today, and it's being done by the administration. We have a number of facts that need to be addressed today, and first of all the prosecutions and administrations that are called upon to control the Constitution. The other one. Recently, there has been a tendency to ignore laws and the Constitution. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we're addressing you and we're addressing the Attorney General's Office to respond to what's going on today in Suma, High Town, Kirovograd, Cherkas. There is no adequate response to a committee from the Attorney General's Office. It refers to places where prosecutorial authorities themselves deal with the administrative destruction of local self - government. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want this speech to be seen as an official appeal to you, and we insist that you raise this issue on the National Security Council, because this is the security of the state, this is the establishment of an authoritarian regime in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u5	Edward Gurwitz, faction of our Ukraine. Stand by, Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u6	Edward Gurwitz, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Respectable guests of Parliament! Today, Ukraine faces a responsible choice. We can take advantage of the humiliating Council of French President Jacques Chirac and remain silent. In that case, we will become the only Eastern European country that has openly recognized the status of the Second Class State. We can join Putin and Lukashenko in joining those who see the way to peace in the preservation of a blood dictator, 17 times in violation of the UN sanctions, who repeatedly attacked neighbours, who continued to accumulate weapons banned by the UN, which financed terrorists, whose victims were also Ukrainian citizens. Just recently, Saddam’s defenders have accompanied his portraits in Independence Square as in a recent historical portrait of the same heinous dictator, Joseph Stalin. For the Iraqi people, Hussein is Stalin today. What European pacifists are doing to save Saddam is what they did to save Hitler in the 1930s, untied his hands for the blood war. That's what they didn't do for Stalin, declared like an inhumane regime. It's a terrible mistake, and perhaps a terrible crime. America and England have made a huge contribution to our overall victory over fascism, and they have saved Western Europe from Soviet occupation, and America has provided invaluable assistance to Germany and France, and to other countries in the post-war revival. The Germans quickly forgot John Kennedy's words to them: "I am a Berliner." Similarly, they will leave us at any historic crossroads. We cannot support the actions of France, the country that armed Iraq, which built a nuclear reactor there, which introduced the Middle East into the nuclear war.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u7	May I have your attention, please? May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u8	cut off by the heroic actions of Israeli aviation that destroyed the midst of a nuclear holocaust. We must realize that Russia is interested in maintaining the volatile situation in the Middle East in order to obtain excess oil revenues. But Putin is ready and will negotiate with America, Russia will not veto the Security Council's decision. We must state the need for the uncompromising disarmament of Hussein and because we have given the world reason to suspect us in the complicity of his weapons. Sending to the Gulf of Persia gives our battalion a chance to improve its reputation in the international arena. It has nothing to do with participating in a possible war. Given the specificity of the battalion, Ukrainian volunteers should be seen as a rescue team sent to the area of the alleged disaster, as chemical and bacteriological weapons have been proven. We must take a firm stand on the side of America, England, Italy, Spain, because they are not fighting for oil, it is a lie that the fight is for oil, it is the fight against terrorism, racial and stellar intolerance, it is the fight for the secure future of mankind! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u9	Thank you. The word is to be given to the national MP. Are you done? Well, finish it. Well, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u10	I'm gonna finish this on purpose. I will say that, in such circumstances, fundamental objections to the dispatch of the Ukrainian battalion may have only one person, and not a man, Saddam Hussein.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u11	Ivan Stojko, faction of our Ukraine. Please. Is there a Ivan Stojko?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u12	Vladimir Mihajlovich, please pass the word to Jaroslav Kendzior to make an extremely important statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u13	Jaroslav Kenzier, please. I ask everyone to abide by the Rules, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u14	Dear Head, dear fellow national MPs! In recent times, we have come up with many facts and documents that testify. who testify and convince us that a political party with a small zero, as we used to say, essentially takes over power in Ukraine and specializes in provocations that we talked about yesterday at yesterday's meeting. This is also the probability of distributing those incomprehensible letters on behalf of Yushchenka, and this is also the events in Mukachev, Zakarpatsk district, in other areas. A similar situation took place in the Lviv region. The wide-ranging provocation has also been associated with the implementation of the Lviv region's "esupply" in recent months, which has been actively implemented in the last few weeks. The efforts of SDPU and the younger brother of Medvedczuk - Sergey Medvedczuk have led the adventure of recalling the deputy district council for the head of the Urban Regional Organization of the People's Movement of Ukraine, Jaroslav Kožinski. All of this would have been normal if all of this had been done on the basis of an existing law on local self - government. When the territorial, Lviv’s territorial election commission had signed letters, and when they were poured from the citizens of the City’s district, they claimed that signatures had been collected to call off the deputy of the district council of Jaroslav Korzynski. The territorial election commission decided to verify the authenticity of the signature assembly. And here, honourable colleagues of the national MPs, such a vast, cynical, such a presumptuous adventure, deliberately conceived by the efforts of the district organization of the SDPU, their activists, with the involvement of the state structure, the district tax administration, the electoral system has not yet been known. The signed letters included people who are already resting with God on cemeteries, people who have been working on wages in Western Europe for years. The territorial electoral commission rejected these signed letters, and these materials, which were documented by the acts, went to the Public Prosecutor's Office. There is every reason to file a criminal case. I ask that my brief speech today be accepted by the Attorney General's Office as an official request, and that the Attorney General's Office take over the investigation of this case by the Lviv District Attorney's Office, and that all this adventure on the part of the SDPU(o) be punished in accordance with the law in force.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u15	Thank you. Ivan Sidorovich Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Prepare Marcus.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, yesterday we all witnessed the restoration of the synagogue’s 100 - year - old history in Kiev by television. We saw some of our colleagues there, especially Deputy Prime Minister Dmitri Tobacco. And we should, I think, all sincerely be glad that our Jewish fellow countrymen have received their spiritual temple. But at the same time, the presence of our Deputy Prime Minister of Tobacco there reminded me of something else. Recently, this is literally the day, at a meeting of the College of the Ministry of Culture and Art, just from the initiative of Dmitry Volodymyrovich Tobacco, it has been announced that there will be a so-called cluster of libraries in our country, in cities and district libraries for adults and libraries for youth and in the villages of school and rural libraries. A person who understands what is going on understands that at least half of the library fund, or book fund, is being destroyed. It's the national wealth of our state, it's on the one hand. On the other hand, the elimination of, say, libraries for youth is the destruction of the entire system, the development of a whole system, where a system of child labor has been developed by a few generations of teachers and librarians who would envy the whole world, which is nowhere else in the world, except in the former Soviet Union. I think such things are unforgivable. As I looked at this story, I also remembered that the museum business in our Ukraine today was literally followed. Today before March 9, Taras Shevchenk's birthday, I have to say that the National Reserve of the Grave and the Shevchenka Museum in Canev has literally run out of funding, only the salary is financed. So Taras Shevchenk Museum in Caneva is shut down from electricity. Let's think about what we're doing. And in that state, by the way, other museums, including those that have national status. What is it? We shut down the libraries, shut down the hospitals, shut down schools, close the mail. For today’s regime, one thing remains to be closed to Ukraine. If that happens, if we allow this destruction of the library, the destruction of the libraries, I think it will be the disgrace that lies on us in general and on us with you, including, but above all, the regime that runs this kind of cultural policy in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u17	Shurm's national MP, the faction of the Social Democratic Party, demands a word for a replication. [[united]] You'd better get out of here. If a man came here, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Shurma, Ukraine's Social Democratic Party. [[united]] I'd like to make it clear about the speech of our colleague, Deputy Kendzior. I understand that the emotions of Deputy Kendzior are taking over, but there are facts that you should evaluate for yourself. The conflict between Kenzior and SDPU(o) in Lviv has been ongoing for several years. I understand that his emotions are related to the three-time program of the court of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine for the protection of rights and honour and dignity. [[united]] Regarding the facts, the DPA was the subject of our examination. Only 10 people are in the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] All the facts in the courts cited by Deputy Kenzor do not correspond to reality, because the people, the entrepreneurs who refer to him, are all violators of the current legislation against most of whom criminal cases are violated. I have to say that the election and to this day the image of the enemy, the image of the enemy in the person of the SDPU(o), is being created, and this oppression of the situation is constantly leading to a conflict situation in the room. [[B in m in s a l in]] And as for your screams, you have a similar culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u19	Turn off the microphone. Please don't call me names. Kenzier, the line. And don't call the parties. We're working here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u20	All right, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Dear Head! Dear fellow national MPs! This is another example of confirming what I was talking about. First. There is no need to mislead the members of the Supreme Council and the whole of Ukraine. Jaroslav Kenzier has not yet lost or lost the lawsuit from the SDPU. The Court of Appeal has not yet reached its decision. What I've always said is that in Lviv, in Lviv, a criminal clan was created on the basis of a state structure, which is tax administration and political structure, which is the SDPU. It's usurpation in the area. This is the destruction of a private enterprise. This is a crime against the Ukrainian state, against the Ukrainian economy. And all of this lies, this responsibility lies with President Medvedchuk's CEO, his younger brother, who uses his position as a big brother as an absolute immunity, a man who's allowed everything in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u21	National MP Marcus. I beg of you, Your Honor, we have a session room. It's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u22	National MP Marcus. I give the word to the national deputy Gerasim.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u23	Ivan Alexandrovich Gerasimov, please. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u24	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable voters! As a national deputy and chairman of the Council of the 14 million-million-dollar organization of veterans of war, labour and military service of Ukraine, I would like to draw your attention to the article entitled "Black Monday" published in our parliamentary newspaper, Voice of Ukraine on 1 March this year. The article refers to events 60 years ago when on 1 March 1943, the brutal Hitlerites destroyed thousands of children, women and old people, burned down 1,390 houses in the village of Koryukowka in the Chernigov region. In addition, the author accuses not those who did so, the fascist youths and their police assistants, but blames the Soviet partisans for the fact that before the Korukov operation was carried out by the Soviet partisans, Alexei Fedorov, which destroyed the Korukov German garrison, destroyed the echelon with 18 wagons, destroyed 5 kilometres of road, freed the hostages and took the trophies. The author concludes that if the operation were not for guerrillas, there would be no tragedy. However, the journalist does not speak of the ugly activities of the real collaborators, who served the Germans with faith and truth, and who, together with the Fascist young men, committed murder against innocent measles. These include Sidor Bragin, Vasily Savello, Evgeny Baranowsky, and others who took direct part in the punitive action. Vassili Savello, who came from a distant Winnipeg in Canada in 41st year, personally shot the family of the chairman of the village council of Paul Belozer, Alexander Litvin, Gabriel Derbo and many others, including the children of the December. In addition, the fruit of pregnant women was obtained by the palace in the womb of mothers. About 100 of them were exiled to Fascist slavery. However, all of this fell out of view, for some reason, the author did not find any reflection in this article. In the Great Homeland War, more than a million Ukrainian citizens fought underground in guerrilla troops. Their determined struggle was a real second front and was a major contribution to our common cause of victory over the cursed enemy of German fascism. And now, 60 years after the victory, this patriotism is stained with black paint, destroying the memory of the great feat of the Ukrainian people. This pastel must be completely condemned and I think that it is impossible to provide pages such as a parliamentary newspaper for such articles that distort history -- I conclude -- of the history of the Great Homeland War, to cast a shadow on those who fought and gave their lives for defeating an enemy, a German fascism. Blaming Soviet partisans as perpetrators of the genocide that Hitlerists and police have created is sacrilegious.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u25	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine. Prepare Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to discuss with you the issue of our relationship with a lawyer. No, I'm not talking about a criminal case or a civil case, I'm talking about a Ukrainian lawyer in foreign policy, the Republic of Poland. Inconceivable from partner, advisor, leader of Ukraine to Europe, lobbyist defender in the European Union Poland has become a lawyer of Ukraine. This is certainly humiliating to our nation as if we are subject to certain wrongs. But it probably takes a lot more time than three minutes under the Rules to interpret this fine notion especially by the Ukrainian government delegation, which on the 3rd day of Orthodox Christmas went to the religious Catholic State of Poland with a working visit and discussed the vulnerable periods of Ukrainian-Polish relations about which the delegation had a rather vague notion. Today, individual politicians of the neighbouring state, large numbers of public organizations, the media are artificially blowing up the fire of the Ukrainian-Polish tragedy that took place on the West Boog coast 60 years ago in the years of World War II called the Volin tragedy. The charges against our address are extremely serious - accusations of the genocide of the Polish people by the Ukrainian people with appropriate political conclusions, with appropriate international legal consequences and in such cases the repentance of the leaders of the state. Surprisingly, we do not take our daily routine seriously. One is because they don't understand it because they're worried about accelerating the Eurasian integration of Ukraine. And others say, "Okay, so let's do it," forgetting the prophetic Chewchen words that say, "Warsaw trash, your masters, the nobles." Since the announcement of the so-called Volin tragedy is turning, we consider it necessary: first, to carry out an extremely thorough historical analysis and study of what happened 60 years ago, based primarily on research by local historians and historians. Before making a decision at the national level, consider the matter at the regional level. In Volinsky, Rivensky, Ternopil areas, in the local self-government bodies of those villages, cities and towns that had been affected by the actions of the army of the country’s Republic of Poland 60 years ago. Experience is positive. When a sad date was observed as a 50 - year - old, there is a special one on the Vale, and it is definitely to be used. And it is certainly important to involve Ukrainian parliamentarians, members of the Ukrainian-Polish Inter-Parliamentary Group, who are from the western territories of Ukraine, who know what was going on there, in all the diplomatic actions that our country is doing with Poland. Including in Parliament, Vladimir Mikhailovich, not only historians, but also representatives of the Western population, the western territories of Ukraine, can be counselors and helpers in this important matter. And last of all, I'm done. We need to hold a round table, make an official statement to our parliament, an objective, impartial, just statement that would assess the fratricidal conflict in which tens of thousands of civilians died on each side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u27	On this point, I would like to inform you that in the second decade, at the beginning of the third decade, there will be a scientific and practical conference of Ukrainian and Polish historians to support the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly, where this issue will be discussed. So we want this problem to be discussed exclusively by experts. Please, Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u28	Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine. The statement I have prepared is very important. However, please give the floor to the distinguished John Stepanovich Plush.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u29	To whom should I give the word? Ivan Stepanovich Plush, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u30	Thank you, Lilia Mikhailina. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I had to speak from the parliamentary rostrum about the troubles that are in the town of Nizhni, which are related to the burning of this city. It was your mission, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and my parliamentary appeal to the government. We received an answer that could be called a letter, and I will read a letter that I received again from the city of Nizhina. I read the original language. "On behalf of three and a half thousand citizens of the military city, number 21 on the street of the cosmonauts in the city of Nezhina, we ask you the following question. The heating of our city is carried out by two boilers operating on solid fuel. In the city of Nezhina, only the boilerhouses of the Ministry of Defence have not been gassed. 80 per cent of the inhabitants of this micro-region are veterans of the Great Homeland War, the Armed Forces, who benefit from public services. These benefits should be reimbursed by subsidies from the State budget. However, the allocation of subsidies approved by the Cabinet of Ministers in 2003 does not provide for the repayment of coal-based heating debts. The subsidy debt amounts to more than 400,000. Grieve. We have requested Nikolai Azarov, but there is no positive solution. We urge you to bring to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the question of amending the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine and so on. I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to consider this a matter of priority and to send the government to solve the matter. And the second letter. It is addressed to the national deputies of Ukraine and to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I spit a copy. Addressing the elector of White George Mikhailovich from the city of Harkov, the tractor - building route 112/18. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I will not read this letter and its additions. I will only read a footnote which at the end of this letter was addressed to Ivy: 'I sent such a letter to the Head of the Supreme Council. Yet, I am not sure that guidance will bring him to his attention. I'm going to give you this letter, and I'm going to ask you, on behalf of the electorate, to pay attention to it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u31	National Deputy Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Nikolainko for statement from the faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u33	Please, Stanislaw Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u34	Dear national MPs, distinguished Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished voters! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine authorized me to make an application for gross violations by the government of article 43 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Pay for Work Act, the establishment of the minimum wage for 2003. None of you, while in the district, knew practically what to say to your electorate in connection with the adoption of, say, the Minimum Wages Act, because on December 26, last year, the Ukrainian Law on Minimum Wages for 2003 was signed. Article 2 of this law required the government to submit to Parliament by February 1 an amount of additional donations to local budgets, and by March 1st a proposal to bring the minimum wage, I recall, 185-237 to a minimum of 342 bracelets. At the beginning of March, however, most local councils, Matthewnko said, do not know how to pay a new salary, do not make any adjustments to their budgets, do not understand the proportion of wages for doctors, teachers, cultural workers, other budgeters who receive low wages, slightly above the minimum wage. Many organizations are also not in a hurry to implement the minimum wage law. And what's particularly surprising is today those who have been paid about 190 and, somewhere around the bracelets, they don't understand, someone started getting 185, and they're still left with 190. No intertariff grid changed. The practice of curbing the growth of official wages is continuing, the state is curbing the development of productive forces, the productivity of labour, because the low cost of labour is halting the introduction of innovative technologies, and is rejecting the country's return to its socio-economic development. It is unacceptable, too, that socialists believe that Minfin, a large part of the local authorities, is planning to increase wages by reducing the number of employees, taking them to work part - time. Concerns socialists and the government’s intentions are not to increase the amount of pensions, social benefits, which should increase due to an increase in wages. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine strongly opposes the gross violations of the Constitution, the failure to execute legislation on pay and demands that the Supreme Council, the government, amend the 2003 budget immediately. Every citizen has a right to a salary, no less than the statutory amount of pensions, and other social benefits must ensure a standard of living not less than the standard of living. We require the government to increase salaries proportionally to all categories of budget organizations, students, to take action to get out of the shadow of wages in manufacturing and to increase enforcement control over the work of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u35	Thank you. Please, Babourin, the Communist faction. With motive then, when they're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u36	The President of Ukraine, the President of the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, the President of the BSS. We, the organization of Soviet investors and investors of the Slavyanski Bank, address you on behalf of the multi-tousal army of looted investors in the Zaporozhye region. We demand that our contributions be returned in cash or in cash. While 78 per cent of Belarus was returned, Russia was 35 per cent, and Ukraine was only 0.3 per cent of its contributions. This shows that the Government of Ukraine does not intend to recover labour savings from investors. You let us out of the world, doomed to extinction. Judges who refuse to do so on behalf of the State of Ukraine are the direct perpetrators of the genocide against us. Lords of lords, each of you is to blame for the injustices in which we have been robbed by the investors. We have been robbed on the fault of the Government, which has failed to comply with the Ukrainian Constitution, the Civil Code and the Ukrainian Law. We no longer intend to tolerate the violation of our rights and dignity. We are being tried for debts on utilities, described property, and evicted from apartments, cut off gas, water, heating, light, condemning us to a hungry and cold death while we have thousands of bracelets in our accounts. We are tired of your mockery and will protect our lives, our savings, our private property by all means available to us. We have sent private communications to the President and the Government, statements of meetings, meetings, associations of citizens. All courts have passed, and have been brought before the International Court of Human Rights. We were not heard in Ukraine or Europe. We require the President - the guarantor of the Constitution, the Government of Ukraine to return our contributions, to lift the veto on the Ukrainian Act on State guarantees for the restoration of Ukrainian citizens' savings. If we fail to meet our demands by May 2003, we will have to carry out a protest and take extreme measures. On the Day of International Solidarity of Workers 1 May, at 12 o'clock, close the transport highways passing through the cities of Melitopol, Berdjansk, Vasilievka, Dneprodroudny, Volnjanski and other cities of Zaporozhye. We appeal to the entire 25 million army of looted Ukrainian investors to step out on 1 May 2003 to protest the return of deposits.” And signatures. I still have time. I would like to reply to one speaker, who spoke secondly here, who has sneered Stalin's name, and I would like to remind him that if it were not for the Soviet people in charge of Stalin, if the people had not broken their necks to Hitler's captors, there would hardly have been representatives of that nationality on earth. And, as they say in Odessa, it is a disgrace to the Jew who will stain Stalin's fair name.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u37	Igor Ostaš, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u38	Honorable Head! Dear fellow national MPs! As you know, on Motherland's Day, four presidents: Ukraine and Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan signed an application for the creation of an ORI, almost like an ori state. [[organization of regional integration]] Interestingly, this has been a surprise for many and for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This has been a surprise for Ukrainian diplomats who are zealous for their foreign policy priorities, particularly European integration. This has also come as a surprise to our partners in the GUAM States, because the very existence of GUAM has now been questioned. This was a surprise for the Cabinet of Ministers, because just a few weeks ago, the official document of the Cabinet of Ministers made it clear that "the analysis conducted by the Cabinet of Ministers allows us to make a clear conclusion on the inadequacy of the accession to the Euroseus, namely Euroses plus Ukraine, not only to the political interests but also to the economic interests of our state, which was highlighted by President Kuchma of Ukraine. One of the main negative effects should be identified. The introduction of Ukraine into this organization will mean a fundamental change in the international strategic course for European integration. In fact, the rejection of the Copenhagen criteria for membership in the European Union and in general will show the unforeseeable and unpredictable nature of not only the external but also the internal politics of our nation. The latter will be addressed in the context in fact by Ukraine's rejection of the international declared strategy for political and economic reform on the principles of the European Union. This will also mean putting off an indefinite deadline for entering the WTO and carrying out the sentencing process under Russian conditions and so on and so forth. What is it? Is this the start of an election? Is our President taking bread to the left, thereby neutralizing the weight of the possible next left candidate to the presidents? Could this be a new presidential election scenario, because when it comes with the slogans of European integration, our President obviously understands that his successor will no longer be supported by the European states and states of the West. This is obviously a new scenario for the next election, so-called Euro-Asian integration, that will be followed by the President's election scenarios in both Russia and Belarus? One way or another, we want to have a good relationship with Russia. We want our goods not to be taxed on the Russian VAT market, we really want to feel like partners, but we cannot understand that our foreign policy is a hostage of the unforeseeable actions of the President's Administration, although fortunately most states understand that relations with Ukraine need to be distinguished between the President's Administration and the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u39	Yes, we've even taken the time. No, please take your seat and take your word for it. Well, it's a line. For reasons, please, Igor Yukhnovsky. Dear colleagues, let's be tolerant, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u40	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, what you have reported will be the round table of historians Poland and Ukraine in order to find out Polish-Ukrainian relations, is wonderful. But I would very much like to ask you to have the members of the Supreme Council, especially a veteran like me, personally invited to this round table to do so. I was in Poland, and I knew how the plight of the Ukrainian population was by Polish nationalists and the Polish administrative state of Pilsudski. And so I think there should be not only a thought created on the basis of historical facts written by certain historians who at the time were and represented certain political powers, but there should be also eyewitnesses who were at that time. That's the first one. And the second. Honourable Volodymira Mikhailovich, extremist veteran organizations, both Poland and Ukraine, sow discord both in the Polish people against the Ukrainians and in our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u41	Thank you, thank you. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u42	Against the Ukrainians. I believe that these activities of extremist veteran organizations should end both in Poland and in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u43	Thank you. Yes, Edward Gurwitz. And now we're going to work on the schedule of meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u44	Edward Gurwitz, Our Ukraine. This room says that the Jews should be most grateful for Stalin’s victory in the Great Homeland War. The victory of the Great Homeland War was not won by Stalin, who left, well, at random, and in the fire of the millions of people who put their heads on the ground of the Soviet Union. And there was also the Jewish people who made the most worthy contribution to that victory, and this is evident from any statistics. Don't insult me about anything. And I live on my land, and I'm gonna live here until I die, and you've allowed yourself to speak abusively and you've allowed yourself to do so all the time. Because when the Supreme Council was told from the rostrum that the famine in Ukraine was only because the Ukrainians did not read the book On Delicious and Healthy Foods, produced by Stalin's comrade, I did not rush to the rostrum and miss you for the shivour, although it was necessary to do so. And today, on the day of the 50th anniversary of the death of a bloody tyrant, you could keep your mouth shut for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u45	Turn off the microphone. Let's get down to business on schedule. A draft Law on Civil Democratic Control of the Military Organization and Law Enforcement Authorities is being announced for consideration. Dear colleagues, we usually discuss the matter for 45 minutes. Is that how we're going to look at it? Then five minutes, five minutes to question, and 15 minutes to discuss, three reporters. Please report from the committee to the National Deputy of Ukraine, First Deputy Chairman of the Committee Boris Pavlovich Andresyuk. Please, Boris Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u46	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich and the distinguished national deputies! The draft Law on Civil Democratic Control of the Military Organization and the State's Law Protection Authorities, prepared by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence, with the participation of experts in military construction and civil-military relations. The drafters used the separate provisions of the model bill on parliamentary control of the Military Organization, prepared by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Commonwealth of Independent States, which conducted an appropriate expertise at the Geneva Centre for Civil and Democratic Control of the Armed Forces. In addition, the bill was discussed by participants in international round tables held in the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2001 and received a positive assessment. The currentity of the drafting and adoption of this law is primarily driven by the following factors: first, the need to bring Ukraine's legislation into line with international law. Yes, according to the Framework Document of the Partnership for Peace Programme and the Code of Conduct on the Military and Political Aspects of Security, which declares that the participating States consider democratic and political control of military and military forces, internal security forces, and intelligence services and police as an indispensable element of stability and security. Ukraine has undertaken to provide and support effective leadership and control its military, military, and security forces by constitutionally constituted authorities with democratic legitimacy. Secondly, the need to balance legislatively the scope of the powers of various branches of government and society in general, which will contribute to the effective resolution of military and political problems. Thirdly, the need to organize military-civil relations related to the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations. This requires effective control both by Parliament and by the public and by individual citizens, who are taxpayers and are supported by these structures. Fourthly, by creating conditions to uphold the rights of a civil servant as an equal member of civil society. And fifthly, the interest of the very military-political leadership of the state in the established principles of democratic civil control in the system of military-civil relations. The main objective of the bill is to legislatively establish a system of military-civil relations with the specific definition of their subjects or, in other words, to regulate the procedure for the exercise of democratic civil control over the state's military organization. The active subjects of civilian control, according to the law, should also be non-state structures, local self - government, media, and citizens, which make the controls transparent and democratic. The media will have a special role to play in the exercise of control. Their power and capabilities are widely known: not only do they inform society of the real processes that are taking place in the war sphere, but they also form an appropriate social opinion, affirming certain ideas, values and priorities regarding problems in the army. The control of military and law enforcement officials on the part of society should provide for a close relationship between military and law enforcement on the one hand and the public on the other. Recognition of the common values of society as military leaders, recognition of the role of public opinion as an important factor that has a major impact on the state of affairs in the state’s military organization. In general, civilian control of the activities of military-force structures is the most optimal form of maintaining civilized military-civil relations. The bill sets out principles on which civilian control, designated objects, and subjects of control are to be exercised. The bill proposes that national security and defence programmes be reviewed and approved by the Supreme Council because, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council approves the overall structure, the number, the functions of the Armed Forces, the Ukrainian Security Service, and others established in accordance with the laws of military formation. With a view to strengthening parliamentary control over the constitutional rights and freedoms of civil servants, military pensioners and members of their families, it is proposed that a representative of the authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights of Ukraine be appointed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of military personnel. It's a new institution for Ukraine, but it works effectively in many countries of permanent democracy. It has been in Sweden since 1915, Germany since 1956. And finally, I would like to point out that this bill does not require additional spending. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up, five minutes. Light up on the board. Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u48	It is, of course, difficult to argue here that it is necessary to control the power structures of public organizations. But I have only one question here: How effective will this control be, how informal it will be, and how much will it not be against those under control? Because you are well aware that good intentions often give rise to inadequate reactions by those to whom they are directed. And of course, these issues need to be reconciled and settled somehow. Does the bill regulate the opposition that is, in principle, possible during the exercise of the necessary control, in my opinion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u49	Thank you, Mr. People's Deputy. Indeed, this law also settles these questions. He settles the issue of liability before the law for violating the law. It also introduces, first, as a subject of civil control, that the subject is citizens of Ukraine and the unification of citizens established by them in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine for the exercise and protection of their rights and freedoms, to satisfy political, economic, social, cultural interests. This is provided for by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u50	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear Boris Pavlovich, among the many benefits of the bill proposed by you, I would particularly like to point out that the situation here is being established that civilians can be appointed as Ukraine's Defence Minister and other leadership positions in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I think it's a legislative, legislative step forward on the way to really democratizing society as a whole, because civil control is very important for democratization. Please tell me, what kind of mechanism do you predict, the possibility of assigning a civilian to the post of Minister of Defense, Minister of Internal Affairs, and so forth? What are the criteria? Will these criteria be accepted by society, or will it be a voluntary method and so forth?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u52	Thank you for asking, Mr. Oleg. Indeed, this law now sets such standards. But I would like to remind you today that you and I in this room have adopted new draft laws and the Ukrainian Defence Act, and a new edition of the Armed Forces Act, which states in those laws that yes, Ukraine has the opportunity to appoint civilians to these positions today. Today, the Constitution clearly defines the mechanism of appointment for these posts, I mean the ministers of appointment for these positions. The law also regulates this possibility in accordance with the laws in force and the Constitution that regulate these rules today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u53	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u54	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Boris Pavlovich! I have a question for you, but in view of the fact that soon the women’s festival, I ask you to pass the word to Valentina Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u55	Valentina Seminouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u56	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich, from all women and from yourself. Dear Boris Pavlovich! I have a very specific question for you. Today, our Commander-in-Chief of Ukraine, the President, is issuing decrees that are issued under the heading "Publication is not subject to," which clearly gives an instruction, so-called, DUSI, you know, State Administration, to privatize property, including even the parliamentary appeals that I am making to see that decree that is being sold to, who is being sold, who will perform this function, whether the same Dogayev or any other appropriate cord. There's no way to know. Say, please, in this law we can prescribe that even we as national MPs, I'm not talking about Ukrainian citizens anymore, because I don't think it's possible to close this down so that we can see these decrees and we can respond to them as deputies? Can it be written in this law that the Commander-in-Chief also implement appropriate democratic principles of government in the State or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Valentina. The subject of this law is certainly not to regulate these matters; these issues should be governed by another law. But I would like to tell you that for the first time in this law, we have introduced the concept. We see with you today that most of the military reform programmes, the reform of the Armed Forces, are being carried out in accordance with Presidential decrees that are being published. But given that the President's decrees on the reform of the Armed Forces and other issues may go on for the entire financial year, and you and I once approve the basic financial document, so today these programs are practically unfunded. For the first time, we have introduced into this law that the reform programmes that are now approved by the decree should today be approved by the Supreme Council and combined with the state budget in order for them to be financed. I think that this is the norm when we move to approval, the approval by the Supreme Council of all military issues of reform, I think, partly more, much more, these issues will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u58	Boris Pavlovich, time is up, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u60	Ukraine’s Justice Minister Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinović is invited to the report. Alexander Volodymyrovich, five minutes and five minutes to answer questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u61	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I'm authorized by the Cabinet of Ministers to report to you a draft law on democratic civilian control of military formations and law enforcement agencies developed by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. The motivation for drafting this law was now expressed by the previous reporter and I don't think we should repeat all the motives. The main goal is to make the state's military formations and law enforcement bodies under control, which are totally in line with Ukraine's international obligations and the standards of the democratic state. The essence of the bill, drafted by the Ministry of Defence and presented as a legislative initiative by the government, is to foresee the establishment of democratic civilian control over the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations, that is, the sphere of activity of the State in which the main actors are military personnel. This approach is aimed at legislative regulation and improvement of the actual democratic control mechanism in Ukraine today for the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations, the consolidation and further progressive development of the civil-military relations that have taken place today in our society. The project envisages, in addition to essentially control functions, a certain administrative impact of democratic civilian control subjects, as well as their responsibility for providing favourable conditions for the construction and development of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations. This will contribute to the establishment of a harmonious civil-military relationship and to the mutual understanding and effectiveness of the interaction of subjects and objects of democratic civil control. Subjects of democratic civil control include both government authorities, local authorities, and the unification of citizens who can exercise civilian control in accordance with Ukraine’s current laws and legislative acts, as well as the Ukrainian media. I'm not going to repeat these motivations that you just heard for the sake of the economy of parliamentary time. I want to say that the adoption of such a bill will contribute positively to the development of Ukrainian society in order to ensure effective and defensive armed forces and to control the targeted use of people who, on behalf of the State, perform defence functions in our country or the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the minister? Please sign in. Five minutes. Put the name of the national MPs on the board. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u63	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, you may have seen the conclusion that is around the Main Science and Technology Department, which does not leave a stone on the stone on this project. You probably know about those decrees, including the "secret" term, not "not public" word, I repeat, but "secretly." The President of Ukraine, who was obliged to consider a very nice person through the President's Administration, who was assigned to military positions, the Security Service, even in the prosecution's office, was allowed to do so, and now all of this is happening. How is the position of the Ministry of Justice? What kind of civil control are we talking about? Where is he here foreshadowed in this law by the things that are happening? How should the public know? Well, Carmazin won't give us that secret order. The generals sit silent because they're going to get presidential allowances. [[We've had enough of this!]] How can we exercise control? And control has to be done. There would be no such thing in any civilized country. What is the position of the Ministry of Justice as the Ministry of Justice, I emphasize?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u64	I want to say that the issue raised is broader than the issue of democratic control of the Armed Forces and law enforcement. And what happens when it comes to normative acts or other acts that are issued in a state with corresponding graphs is done exactly in accordance with the laws that determine the state's secret and that part of the State's activity that is not meant to be public. Everything else must be subject to public control. And if there are any documents that go beyond the existing laws of Ukraine, they are subject to unconditional annulment. And if we talk about the limitations that it imposes, let's say, this draft law, it only provides for restrictions on issues that are related to the state secret, and that the restrictions that are set by the state of emergency and war. There are no other limits to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u65	Oleg Zarubinsky, PDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u66	Thank you. Alexander Volodymyrovich, unfortunately, was not asked by women to speak before March 8th, so I will give the word to Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u67	Sergei Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u68	Thank you. Sergei Shevchuk. I was not approached by women either, so I will ask myself. Dear Mr. Minister! Please tell me if this bill refers to civilian control of such law enforcement agencies as the Security Service, the Tax Police, the Customs Service, and others. And as you can see in this case, why don't you explain to our listeners what might be the forms of control over these paramilitary law enforcement agencies? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u69	Thank you for asking. The draft law is a list of these bodies and other than military formations, which include the Armed Forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Civil Defence Army of the Ministry of Emergency Situations, and also the law enforcement agencies, and the first of them, of course, are internal affairs, this is the Ukrainian Security Service, the State Border Service, the Ukrainian State Protection Authority, the Tax Police you mentioned. So this bill provides directly in its text that it extends to all of these formations.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u70	Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u71	Oleg Belarus. Please pass the word to Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u72	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u73	Andrew Schlell, Yulia Block faction Timoshenko, UNA-UNSO. I would like, Your Honor, to highlight what you have already said. And you said that there was control of the Military Organization, that democratic control was already in place, only that it was, I take it, not civilian. And you yourself realize that there is no control now that the military machine is not controlled by anyone but the President's Administration, you are well aware of this, although of course you can deny it. But with the introduction of this bill, we can finally break down a wall that separates civil society, citizens from the army, from the Security Service, from all the structures that would protect them, and actually protect the existing President, the existing regime, and no one else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u74	I can say that article 5 of this draft law provides that subjects of democratic civil control are, in particular, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the national deputies of Ukraine, and civil society organizations and citizens of Ukraine, and the media, that is, in fact today, for example, when it comes to the National Security and Defence Council or local self-government bodies, there is, in various forms, such control when it comes to the organization of mobilization training, calls, it is all about the functioning of the Armed Forces. And when it comes to law enforcement, you can also give a whole series of examples when this is being done. If we talk about improving this system, I think the adopted Ukrainian Law on Democratic Civil Control will not prevent this, but it will help.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u75	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, time is up. Thank you. Someone? Ah, it's women's day, isn't it? Well, please, Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u76	Thank you very much. The Communist faction, Hinzburg. I wanted to ask you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, but I can't help but say this, because in the Soviet Ukraine, an officer -- it was a great honor and respect for society for this man. If the boy did not serve in the army, it was a shame, and they all tried to serve him because the girls had not met him. That's what happened to us. What do I want to ask you? I'm reading this law right now, right here in front of me, article 14: "Functions, the creation of Ukraine's President-in-Office." I'm thinking, let's do some auxiliary work. These services should do what? Follow the laws of Ukraine, the decrees, the orders of the President in the army, the hundreds of troops, the fighting and the fighting, the conduct of human resources policies in the Armed Forces, the financing and the state of the armed forces. But today someone is doing these functions. Who prevents them from carrying out these functions without this law, without this article 14, please say? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u77	Unfortunately, I have to say that you read 14 articles, obviously another bill, because article 14 of the bill, which I report on on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers, is called "Responsibility of Local Self-Government Authorities" and is very short, and it states that local self-government authorities exercise democratic civil control within the limits of the powers defined by the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government, other laws of Ukraine. This is the whole article 14. So it's another bill that was reported by probably a previous reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u78	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u79	I'm sorry, I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u80	For my co-report, I invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of Anatoly Ivanovich Domanski. You don't have to, do you? So that's it, there was Andresuk's report, and we got it covered. Let's move on to the discussion. 15 minutes to talk. Please point out the names of those who have signed up. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u81	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! You're feeding an army today that's supposed to protect you. In fact, it protects only one official today and serves him, unfortunately, this is President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine. It is far from the opposition newspaper "Today" in its issue for Tuesday, March 4th, publishes the article "Whom Colonel Serves. [[It's called "Today."]] The complaint of a Ukrainian officer depends on his loyalty.” Not at all, the opposition press is already raising such questions, and unfortunately, absolutely right. The Presidential Administration has created an administration, according to the last decree, which is called the "Chief Administration of Military Formulation." Now." on the issue of judicial reform of the activities of military formations and law enforcement agencies", which is given the authority of another secret decree to deal with all personnel matters of appointment. It has come to the point that prosecutors are called upon to be assigned to this commission. This was not the case with the PRCC. And they check for loyalty, and they ask, who works there? And this is done in absolute silence by Parliament. No one knows. The Council of Europe knows nothing, no one knows. What are we doing? And this is in Ukraine on the twelfth year of independence? First, there is a secret reference, loyal or disloyal to which structure. This requires a civil control law. But what law? The law that exists now in the projects proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will not ensure full civilian control of the military, which is in other countries. And in other countries, effective supervision, I stress, is provided for the supervision of strong structures by Parliament. The law that Kruczkov and Andreszuk gave, and today he reported. He's a little better. But in his powers, including the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council committees, he is also a declarative authority. And let's say that if we want fiction for the Council of Europe, it is. It should be accepted as a basis, but it should be manipulated by control powers so that there is no such violation of the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u82	Mironenko, next Rudkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u83	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, Communist faction. Respectable compatriots, distinguished people's deputies! I support draft Act No. 2115, prepared by the Ukrainian People's Deputy, Kručkovy Georgi Korneevich. But I do have some comments. At present, the number of serious crimes and human rights violations has increased dramatically in the armed forces and law enforcement authorities in the capitalist period compared to the socialist period. In my view, there is a real danger in the future of the fascist coup d'état with the military of law enforcement structures in the event of the loss of power by the forces that have polluted the crimes of privatization and other types of crimes. However, we must take into account the need to amend second reading in line with many of the comments of the Scientific and Expert Management. In particular, article 15 seeks to weaken parliamentary control in favour of the presidential and governmental structures, which is not appropriate in the current realities when we focus on the parliamentary-presidential republic. This relates to the adoption by Parliament of governmental instruments, both in this regard and in the monitoring of the State budget. We must keep this function behind Parliament. Furthermore, we must not allow the role of the Commissioner for the Supreme Council for Human Rights to be nullified now and again. In my view, it is not appropriate for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to approve the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the control of the forces. The Office of the Commissioner for the Supreme Council of Ukraine has a department. If we approve separately of the authorities responsible for the control of the forces and other spheres, we will thus destroy the vital State, society, the structure of the Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I propose to support, on first reading, the Georgia Korneevich Krüchkov Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u84	Dmitri Alexandrovich Rudkovski, next Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u85	Dmitry Rudkowski, 91 Bilocerkow constituency, Trudova Ukraine faction. The adoption of the law that we are discussing is an objective necessity. First. This ensures the legislative consolidation of the commitments made by Ukraine to establish democratic civilian control over the Armed Forces and other military formations in accordance with a number of international treaties and other instruments. It's different. This law accumulates and interacts with the legislative provisions of the existing laws of Ukraine and certain regulations. We can reason on the very need to adopt such a law. And that's not for nothing. Because there are no such laws in all the developed nations of the world. However, this does not prevent the exercise of clear civil democratic control by state and social institutions over the power structures. The legal basis for this is a number of other legislation in force in these countries. They determine the authority of the political leadership of the higher authorities over the activities of the power structures with the direction and level of responsibility of each branch of the higher government. But for Ukraine, to my conviction, that's not enough. Because like other countries of the former Soviet Union, we have inherited not only the complete absence of a legal basis from this important issue, but also the virtual lack of control itself, which at the same time with the depoliticization of power structures and the elimination of party leadership has not been properly exercised. Since the declaration of independence, a number of aspects of civil control have been legislatively defined in some laws of Ukraine. But some laws were passed back in the early years of independence, and are recently in entirely different political, economic, and legal conditions, and sometimes they do not fully comply with previous ones. In addition, some laws had one priority, another that also gave rise to some disagreement. Unfortunately, this has not resulted in a single, clear system where all legal aspects produced are fully harmonized, linked to each other, both in the sphere of direction and control and in the level of responsibility of each branch of government. This law is quite professional; it needs work. And I think that the availability of another bill on the same issue, with the same title, which was submitted to the Supreme Council by the Cabinet of Ministers, not only does it not interfere with the adoption of the bill by Andreszuk and Kruczkov, but it also creates conditions for the preparation of an even more quality document. I suggest you take it in the first reading and work on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u86	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u87	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of Our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! Of course, the issue of civilian control is relevant for many reasons. The simplest and most visible reason is that every day in the Armed Forces and other military formations there are conflicts, fates break down, people get sick and other complications that usually affect young people who have a career in these military formations. I don't think it's just a problem for the Ukrainian army, but it's a problem of not having effective control over military formations. So despite the fact that the elements of civil control are already provided for by our legislation and are in the legal field, the adoption of a separate law is essential. On the other side. Society needs to control military and law enforcement expenditure. The budget allocated to these structures each year is significant. Of course, the Supreme Council as the controlling body and now has authority to control these matters. But the law, especially proposed by Khrück, Andreszuk, clearly spelled out the powers of the Supreme Council and the permanent parliamentary committees on the subject of control, including the budget, the Armed Forces and other military formations. I think this point is one of the main motives for adopting this law as soon as possible. Moreover, I think that the Krüchkova-Andreszuk bill contains a number of detailed provisions that will allow not to speak of the declarativeity of this law, but of its effectiveness. Regrettably, there are not many of these provisions. And in the other part, and here we're going to say, just the wishes that are set out in the text of the bill. So in the second reading, our task is to detail as much as possible the standards that will ensure effective public control over everything on the part of the non-governmental sector. Civil organizations that exercise civilian control should not have several lines in the body of the law. We need to write mechanisms as representatives of public organizations will enter specific military units and carry out this civilian control. In addition, in our second reading, we need to focus on such points. The first question is the criminal responsibility of those officials who will prevent civilian control of the Armed Forces and military forces. And those, taking into account our traditions, will be. They should know, then, that a direct responsibility awaits them in this case. In addition, we must write in detail the paragraphs concerning the tight control of Parliament and the public regarding the presence of foreign troops in Ukraine, as well as the activities of Ukrainian military formations in the interests of other States without the adoption of a transparent political decision. That is, such activity should not take place without our participation. These points should be directly reflected in this bill and included in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u88	Thank you. Ivan Alexandrovich Hare. I'll stay ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u89	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. There is an urgent need for effective civilian democratic control of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, other military formations, law enforcement agencies. The Supreme Council has been working on this issue for many years, and the efforts to resolve this area at the legislative level should only be welcomed, but the bills that we have put forward for our consideration do little to solve this problem, because they are extremely declarative. Many problems that have long been discussed and knocked on the door are still unresolved. I'd like to draw your attention to a few of these problems, Mr. People's Honourable Deputies. First. The bill in article 4 states the principle of the separation of political leadership and professional military administration by the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The implementation of this principle should lead to Ukraine’s Ministry of Defence functioning as a civilian institution. Moreover, it is the Ministry of Defence in this status that must be the main element of civilian control over the Armed Forces. But how is it suggested that this principle be implemented? The answer to this question is found in article 16, more faithfully, we do not find the answers in this article, and more specifically, this law preserves the situation that is today. This article reads: "In the event of the appointment of the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the Minister of Defence of Ukraine exercises the leadership of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in accordance with the principles of internal and external policy approved by the Supreme Council." As you can see, the question is clearly not about turning the Ministry of Defense into a civilian organization, but there are only indications that maybe someday we'll do it. I also note the words that "the activity of such a minister will be governed by the principles of internal and foreign policy approved by the Supreme Council." Is there such a law in our Constitution, or is there a separate document? No, it's not. There is only the authority of the Supreme Council. Thus, such a record cannot be explicitly recorded in this bill. Minister of Defense, the Ministry should only work on the law, on the Constitution. I also draw your attention to the principle of depoliticization and deideologicalization of control activities. What Is Deideology? I think we're gonna get this far. Once again, the principle must be followed by legislation, recognition of the rule of law, and not by such general political definitions. This should be taken away. And the last. This is article 14. It speaks of so-called civil control support services created by the President of Ukraine. I don’t remember such terminology in the Constitution, so I didn’t realize that it was for auxiliary services, so I shouldn’t be in this law anyway. And the last. You have to have a white book to report on the use of funds. Thank you. Government funds. I don't find that in this bill either.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u90	Thank you. Igor Ostash, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u91	Igor Ostash, "Our Ukraine." Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Yesterday we witnessed the so-called civil and parliamentary control of law enforcement and the Armed Forces. Yesterday we saw from this rostrum that the heads of the power ministries were practically cynically and shamefully mistreated by the people's deputies, thus working for the customers of a terrible fake, which was also actually a foralstarter of the presidential campaign, and actually working for the customers of this dirty campaign. By the way, no word was said about the so - called Slovak mark because there is a version that these falsifiers were printed in Slovakia, which already means that it is not less than, not more, but an international scandal. And we need to find out how these falsifiers came to us across the Ukrainian border. I fear that as a result of yesterday’s hearings, people will probably need to be taken into custody by those who are being questioned today, because we have recently become fashionable, that five of them break into masked houses, disappear, politicians disappear, and then, finally, there are no ends, and there is no trace. Now for the law. Undoubtedly, yesterday has shown that such a law is absolutely necessary, it is necessary, but on such a European scale, because today, indeed, much has been said about civilian control, about civil ministers, and it is necessary to move gradually towards civilian leadership by the strong ministries. By the way, the title of the bill is a little bit incorrect, and in article 1 there's a mix of concepts of "war organizations," "law enforcement authorities," because a number of law enforcement agencies, such as BSIs, MMUs, are both members of these groups. Obviously, the name of the law on civilian control of military formations and law enforcement agencies would be more precise. Article 13 also raises doubts about the functions created by the President of Ukraine to assist in the exercise of control over the military organization. It is also questionable because, given the position of the Constitution of Ukraine, the National Security and Defence Council exercises control over the activities of the executive authorities in the area of national security and defence, and other supervisory powers for the President of Ukraine are not established. But one way or another, we think we can talk about civilian control of the power sector is through the immediate implementation of the civilian leadership of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the subordination of these military ministries of the Cabinet of Ministers, because these organs are not exceptional, and the appointment of their leaders, as well as any other members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, is to be carried out by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and then we can talk about real parliamentary, real public, real civilian control of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u92	Yeah, let's finish the question. Kručkov Georgi Korniyovich, I would like to ask you from the committee to generalize the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u93	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the participants for discussing this rather difficult and important issue. I would like to report that such a detailed and interested discussion was also held at a committee meeting. The Committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the first bill be based on all the positive positions in the government bill. I have to say that there's been a lot of interesting and helpful comments, but there are moments that need to be considered. Some problems cannot be solved today without amending the Constitution. Nevertheless, this law falls under the Constitution, and what can be taken into account and done without amending the Constitution, it will all be done. I want to assure you that the committee will look closely at all the comments and the second reading will introduce a bill that I think will set us all up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Civil Democratic Control Act has been completed by the state's law enforcement agencies. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. From the Yavorowski procedure, please, Vladimir Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u95	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a respected society! I didn’t sign up for the performance, but I wanted to be sure that it would be noted in the transcript because I thought my colleagues would tell me about it, but it happened that they missed it. There's another aspect of control -- it's about dispossessing and privatizing military property. I really want this to be in our transcript, and I'm going to submit my corresponding additions to the second reading, but it's very important, because a few days ago in the newspaper "Work Week" there was an announcement by one of the military forces that she was going to announce a renting contest there. And you know what was written? It's not a high year, I'll remind you, "The tender will take place on February 29th." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, the draft law amending article 9 of the Ukrainian State Secret Act on secret experts is under consideration. Reporter of the Deputy Chief of Security, Pristajko. We are now moving on to a short-term discussion of the bills. I mean, come on, then two, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u97	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Proposed draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on State Secret, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, approved by the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence and on Science and Education. The changes outlined in the draft do not provide for the possibility of extending the range of persons to whom the President of Ukraine is submitting the Ukrainian Security Service as a specially authorized public authority in the field of state secret protection can be assigned the functions of a state secret expert. To date, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has relied on the law to perform such functions in other government bodies by the President of Ukraine for the appointment of the head of the relevant body. According to the law, information in the field of defence, external relations, economics, science and technology, public security, and the protection of the rule of law refers to public secrecy. The secret information is created alongside the authorities of the State, also at the National Academy of Sciences, other scientific and research institutions, engineering institutions, enterprises, institutions, organizations that are directly involved in the implementation of the State Defense Order for the development and creation of new weapons, military and special technology. In view of the stated scope of such information, there was an objective need to place the functions of state experts on matters of secrecy not only on the heads of government but also on the most competent experts of the institutions listed. Proposals to place these functions on specific officials will be made by the heads of the designated Ukrainian Security Service and by the final submission of the Ukrainian Presidents for the issuance of the relevant decree. The implementation of the bill does not require additional budget spending if it is to be adopted. In view of what has been said, I ask you to vote and adopt the Ukrainian Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian State Secret Act as a basis. And it would be good at all, because, as you can see, it's actually just an editorial character, and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u98	Thank you, too. Please sit down, Vladimir Ilich. Simonov Vladimir Dmitrovic, a member of the National Security and Defence Committee, is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u99	Simonov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The National Security and Defence Committee at its meeting on 11 December 2002 considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on State Secret, registration number 2348, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. During the discussion of the committee members, a proposal was put forward and supported on the relevance of inclusion in the draft remark made to the bill by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the completion of the text after the words “in other government bodies” and after the words “proposals of the leaders of the relevant public authorities” with the words “and local self-government authorities”. If national MPs support this, the bill can be adopted not only as a basis but as a whole. There are conclusions and the Chief Expert Office, which also agrees with this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u100	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to two pros, two opposites. They signed up for the show. Light up, please. Puzakov National Deputy, Communist faction, and Karmazin Other. There are no snails. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. Are you in favour or against?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u101	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. The honourable national deputies, the proposed amendments to the Law on State Secrets, reported today by General Pristajko, are a very short bill. Today, this bill provides an opportunity to place the functions of a state expert on secrets not only on professionals working in public authorities but also on those working in the National Academy of Sciences, in enterprises, institutions, organizations. That's where the best experts work on these issues. And that's why I don't see what might contradict the committee's proposals. In my view, it is very clear that this law, which is actually made of five sentences, must be adopted both in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u102	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u103	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski and Žovkovsky districts, Lvivščina, "Our Ukraine". I have a very short word. I fully support this bill. And how strange it may sound, but in fact today we have this situation where virtually most of the secrets of our nation, and every state has to be able to protect its own strategic secrets, it's practically sold out, it's all given up, and instead we have completely different secrets. You know, I've been asked a couple of times, and I want to be an MP, and I just want to know how many official residences, let's say, are at the disposal of our President and how much they cost our budget. And you think, in everyone on the Internet and in all the documents, all the decrees that are passed on to the sanatorium at the disposal of our Duce. The president's all classified. This is the largest one today, it turns out, we have in Ukraine. Because I think this law needs to be passed, but we need to think about what I'm talking about right now. Thank you. I support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u104	Thank you. Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u105	Dear radio listeners! Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to point out that this bill is really very short, but it's also very necessary. He's usually to be supported. But I would like to point out that the thing is clear, that the protection of the state secret must be a very responsible thing, and this thing must be done flawlessly. That's why this bill is very specific again. We have to end the practice of clarifying laws. We have to keep working, adding, subtracting something, but we still have to just vote here. For. But I would also like to point out that the issue of State secrecy is very often misused. The "secret" griff is about documents that are just embarrassing to show to people. The graph "secretly" refers to documents that can be adopted after this or that. another decision that goes under the heading "secretly" to undermine trust, they say, to executive power. Especially to the President. And that's why it's very often this "secret" term is about documents that should not, in principle, appear in the world. That's why they're being kept secret, so they're somehow trying to get around the public and get them to make direct decisions. This is also true of the Duce of State. This also affects so many other structures. It's also the Security Service that's sometimes sinning, both the police and the army, and most of the time, the army has been sinning those documents that are printed by the Dark Griffith, but in doing so, weapons are being distributed, technology is being distributed, goods not supposed to be made available through the network, through the military network and through the commercial network. So what I'm stressing is that we have to be very careful about the Secret Griffith, and here again and again we're constantly bumping into people's deputies, we're constantly bumping into some laws, some or some other decrees that we need to get acquainted with, but they're all going under secret griffs. So I'm going to remind you that everything that's secret is clear sooner or later. Sooner or later, everything in secret turns out to be harmful. Everything that was hidden just didn't have to be accepted. So at this point, we need to understand that the Count of Secrets puts those structures that are afraid of daylight, those structures, those people who are afraid of public opinion, those organizations that are afraid to expose themselves to the decisions that they make. So I emphasize that in favour of the bill, of course, we have to vote in favour, but at the same time remember that those who abuse the Dark Griffith should understand that sooner or later they will have to be responsible for their own manifest crimes and their secret. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, if there's no objection, we'll be careful. Ah, Vladimir Kirilovich. I thought you were gone. Please log in.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u107	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! Each state has secrets that it should keep, but it is important to keep in mind that there are fewer and fewer mysteries in civil society. So we need to conceptually identify what is a mystery and what is not a secret that should not be a mystery. What is a mystery and should be it must be kept safe, and what should not be a mystery must be open and transparent. I think it's a very important conceptual question, which in our society is a very acute, very active, very topical question. I think we should work on it in the process of our legislative work. I agree with Deputy School about the fact that we're being abused by the Secret Griffith and trying to conceal what we don't need to hide, so we need to take care of the prohibitions of secrecy, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to ensure that there is a reliable protection of what is a secret. So when we do that, then I think we'll put the accent right. And finally. You have to decide with responsibility for issuing state secrets. And that's exactly what I think the bill needs to be developed in the second reading in this direction, in the direction of dividing secrets and non-secrets and in the direction of building a mechanism of responsibility for breach of secrets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft law amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on State Secrets on Secret Experts has been completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. There is a need to consult with you, dear colleagues. We're supposed to have a break, but we're still looking at eleven draft laws by 14 o'clock. One of them is very important. Why don't we take a break? Thank you. The draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation is being introduced in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Military Order in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. The reporter is the Chief of General Staff. Is it? No, we agreed that we might not do that. We have 11 bills to consider. That's all I'm talking about. The hall supported me. A break of 30 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the Military Order Service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Reporter - Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Alexander Ivanovich Zatinaiko, please. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u110	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! The draft law submitted for consideration has been prepared by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to implement section 7, paragraph 2, of the Ukrainian Law on Military Order in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, of 7 March 2002, with the aim of bringing Ukraine's legislative acts into line with the above-mentioned law. The bill is in agreement with the Prime Minister, the Head of the State Commission for the Defence and Industrial Complex, the Minister of Justice, the Deputy Chief of the Supreme Court, the First Deputy Attorney General, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the First Deputy Head of the Security Service and the Head of the State Department of Ukraine for the enforcement of sentences. It is also considered on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour, Legal Policy, National Security, Defence, Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications, which decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted as a basis. The adoption of the bill will not lead to changes in social policy in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, nor will it require additional material costs. All planned measures are provided by the cost of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The draft law proposes to amend the three Ukrainian Codes of Criminal Procedure, the Ukrainian Labour Code on Administrative Offences and the seven laws of Ukraine on police, on prosecution, on road traffic, on State protection of judicial and law enforcement officials, on previous imprisonment, on combating corruption and on the rule of law. Following the adoption of these changes, the law enforcement service will be given the status of the law enforcement authority, the law enforcement officers will be provided with knowledge, administrative guidance in matters related to their competence, disciplinary and criminal penalties in the form of arrest. This will enable the commanders not to be distracted from their basic work and to deal with matters related to the preparation of the subordinated composition solely for its purpose. Amendments to the statutes of the Ukrainian Armed Forces by the Ministry of Defence have been developed, in agreement with interested executive authorities. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine has conducted their legal expertise, at present they are submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and will arrive shortly at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The possibility of retaining an accused of military service not only in hauptvakht, but also in an investigative isolation the need to reconcile the bill with the requirements adopted in the first reading of the Ukrainian Code of Reform and Labour, to regulate the provision of material to the relevant commander on administrative offences against subordinates and military personnel, is undeniable and taken into account in the adoption of the bill. I would like to express my gratitude to you for your active cooperation. I am convinced that with the adoption of the bill, due discipline will be ensured by the law enforcement service among the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Please accept this bill as a basis for the first reading, taking into account the above suggestions and observations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u111	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich, please sit down. I'm inviting you. It is we who are following a reduced procedure, dear colleagues. For Simon's report, Vladimir Dmitrovitch, National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u112	Simonov, the Company's faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In accordance with the mandate of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence, the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Military Service, Law Order in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. It is proposed to amend Ukraine's Criminal Procedure Code, the Ukrainian Labour Code, the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and Laws on Police, the Prosecutor's Office, on Road Traffic, on Pre-Prison Prison, on State Protection of Court and Law Enforcement, on Combating Corruption, on the legal regime of a state of emergency, which will contribute to strengthening the rule of law and military discipline in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and to carry out the activities of the military service of law in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine in the legislative field. The implementation of the bill, additional materials and other expenses is not necessary. Planned measures for its implementation, forecasting the cost of Ukraine’s Armed Forces. Conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office and decisions of the Committees of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy and Social Policy, as well as conclusions of the Committee on Construction, Transport, Liaison, Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. Our committee has considered carefully, and their comments will be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the bill in the first reading and accept it on the basis of a reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u113	Thank you, Vladimir Dmitrovich. Have a seat, please. Yeah, they signed up for the show. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin Are you going to be Yuri Anatolyovich? From the site or from the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u114	Dear People's Deputies, Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. First of all, I'd like to say that Vladimir Mikhailovich has very serious laws. We're not even asking a question to the acting Chief of General Staff. In my opinion, this is a derogation from the Rules. So I would like to say that we were more tolerant once, we were referring to the Rules, because this is a simplified understanding of it in this case in preparation, I'm addressing the Rules of Procedure in this case, and I'm asking you to sort this out somehow. Why do I think it's too serious? Too serious a question because it is rightly proposed that the bill should refer to the commanding authorities, the chief of military forces, parts of the compound, the head of military institutions, the head of military administrations, and the commanders of ships. But this is about establishing administrative responsibility, and I stress, including by preventing an official from carrying out a percentage of road safety inspections, for. We grant them the right to fight corruption in the military law enforcement units of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. What are the relevant experts, Alexander Ivanovich? I am absolutely convinced that there are no appropriate law enforcement professionals who can fight corruption. Today in the state, you know how to fight it. Therefore, these questions would have to be seriously discussed. In particular, the issue is that we give special rights to take action under the state of emergency legal regime. These questions are no longer taken or accepted under the March 9 measures. There's a lot of thinking to do here. So, personally, I am in favour of a single National Security and Defence Committee. This is also the subject of the Committee on Law Enforcement, which is the subject of the Committee on Legal Policy, or three committees. Today, these committees are being treated and are not even being asked to do so. And I saw a great celebration here today, and I saw it in the House of People's Deputies, Vladimir Szczerbany, who was elected on the "Our Ukraine" Block, which does not appear in court because he is sick. I sincerely welcome him on behalf of "Our Ukraine," and I wish him health, and I think he will appear in court and release his seat for the people's deputies of Ukraine, for the "Our Ukraine" Block, not for those he has laid down for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u115	Turn off the microphone. I just want to say that the Committee on Legal Policy has considered this issue and has also considered the Committee on Social Policy. Their conclusions, Yuri Anatoliyovich, I am speaking to you, the Committee on Legal Policy has considered this document, and the Committee on Social Policy has considered this document. There are appropriate committee conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u116	We'll deliver everything. Thank you. Please, Leonid Chernewsky, non-fractional. I'm asking you, I've informed you that there is a committee conclusion for the first reading. Please. I didn't call Karmazin a last name, I called Yuri Anatolyovich. The people of Ukraine know Yuri Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u117	Dear Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Leonid Chernovecki, Darnicke constituency. I want to tell you something very interesting. I have served in the internal forces of Ukraine and I will tell you what these are for the troops and what functions they performed in the totalitarian State. And let our constituents who leave us on the radio know what we're doing. I took part in a demonstration in Dneprodj yinsk and I know how power was dealt with at the time with democratic manifestations in different ways in the country and I was an 18-year-old kid and I didn't understand anything. And I was thrown to the curb and how much I broke my head and what a problem that was. [[I received a letter from Golovchenk, Minister of the Interior]] Now, if tomorrow. Well, unfortunately, it's empty, too. I don't think I can "influence" in the adoption of this law. These troops must be disbanded immediately. It is only the performance of these responsibilities, only the professionals who are trained to do so, and not to mutilate the child's cost by protecting those unhappy or unhappinessd. and deal with those who are proud of Ukraine at all, not. It's a problem. So think about what we're doing. Young people come out, they act as militias, they decide the fate of people. Such a law could only be missed by the Communists on their committee, because of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u118	It's a speech. It's about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u119	Now, you've already accepted this one, haven't you? And now tomorrow you don't vote him. Because you just rape young souls and that's all. I mean, it's all very serious. If anyone decides on this issue tomorrow, stop adopting the law in any way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u120	National MP Simonov from the committee. Because it's a completely different law. This is about the organization of law and order in armed formation, not about the use of it to maintain the rule of law. Please, I think it's more qualified to tell Simonov, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u121	Simonov, the Communist faction. Dear Leonide Mikhailovich, you may have confused something today a little bit wrong with the law you were considering. You served in the police force, I guess. So I'm going to give you a brief account of what is being created: prevention of crimes, administrative and disciplinary offences in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, their detection and cessation, the protection of life, health, the rights and legitimate interests of military and military personnel, the protection of the assets of the Armed Forces against unlawful attacks, the involvement in countering diversified acts, terrorist acts in military objects. I think that, Leonid Mikhailovich, you said a little differently on the rostrum today, though from the medallion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u122	All those who signed up spoke. Eugene Kirilchuk, you had a remark. Please turn on the microphone. Domanski, I'll give you a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u123	Thank you. First of all, I want to make a point and ask you that serious laws can't be considered for a reduced procedure. For example, further consideration is given, the budget is considered, and the reduced procedure is followed. The book is a serious document and is also included in the reduced procedure. For example, and in this case I had, right, Karmazin touched on this subject, and I wanted to see if the army itself could do it when there was subordination down there with the struggle, with the corruption that is in the army? That's the question I had. And secondly, I wanted to clarify what the fate of that plane, the military aircraft that was accounted for in debt from Motor Sitch, and Motor Sitch sold it for cash abroad.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u124	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the People's Deputies, the Supreme Council, to discuss essentially the bills that are being tabled. That's the first one. The other one. I would like to ask the National Deputies to consider that the Conciliation Council approves the schedule of meetings for each plenary week and submits a daily review of one and a half dozen drafts. Can you please give me a hint as to how you can get in at the time so that you can look at them? Therefore, it is necessary to work in advance on committees, and the session room is already discussing common approaches to these documents. Please, National Deputy Domansky of the Procedure. What, do you have a procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u125	Dear comrades! I see there's a misunderstanding between deputies, because some people don't understand what kind of question we're considering. A year ago, we passed a law called March 7th called "The Military Order of the Armed Forces of Ukraine." The adoption of this law created the need to amend certain laws of Ukraine, and they are accompanied by them. Today, we are discussing the changes that need to be made. And I'm asking you to support all these laws to be collided.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u126	Thank you. Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u127	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to say that we really have to do something a little different with the short-term system, although I realize that there's a lot of bills. But this bill, which is proposed for military law enforcement in the Armed Forces, did not go through the Legislative Security Committee, although it would have to go through, because it has the most direct bearing on this committee and it would have to be profiled here in this situation, it would have to be prepared, it would have to be a co-reporter. It's like me. So I think that in future, similar bills have to go through appropriate committees, then there wouldn't be such a mess here, maybe under a reduced procedure you could actually work quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u128	Thank you. I ask the secretariat to take this into account. All those who signed up are speaking. The draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Military Order in the Armed Forces of Ukraine has been completed. We'll make a decision when we vote. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges on the Provision of Conditions for the Enforcement of Justice is being announced for consideration. We'll figure it out now, Vasil Vasilovich. And a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges on Inviolability. So maybe we can propose, Vasil Vasilovich: if Mikhail Vasilovich Melniczuk and then Sergey Anatoliyovich Ivanov, and then together we could discuss these two bills. And then I'll go to the national MPs. Is there no objection? Thank you. I invite Melniczuk Mikhail Vasilovich to the rostrum as the author of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u129	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, is increasingly inclined by international society to uphold the principle of the independence of justice. It is not uncommon for many international legal instruments to stress the need not only to proclaim human and civil rights and freedoms, but also, above all, to create conditions for their protection by an independent and impartial tribunal. The fact that in Ukraine the establishment of the independence of the judiciary is only at its initial stage is widely said. Lack of housing, social disqualification, low levels of pay for judges and other negative factors -- a strong testimony of the dependence of the courts on executive power, the basis for corruption and abuses in the judiciary, the undermining of the authority of state authorities and the state as a whole. The Constitution of Ukraine proclaims the right of citizens to legal protection. However, it cannot be implemented without a substantial increase in the judicial corps of experts in the law of practitioners. The legislator casually predicted that the judge could be only a citizen who had a legal status of at least three years. It is the practical experience of applying legislation, not just its theoretical knowledge, that enables the judge to handle matters correctly. The draft law that I have proposed provides for amendments to articles 43, 44, 45 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges, which regulates the issue of the judge's right to resign the material and household security of judges and the social protection of judges. It is suggested that work that gives the right to retirement and financial maintenance, as well as additional leave of employment in certain legal positions, be included. It is suggested that all of the work in the field of law and public service work be included, as is the case with the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. It is possible to regulate the right of judges to resign in the event that they are declared disabled. In order to strengthen the financial independence of judges, it is proposed that the conditions of payment of work should be defined by a special law. Jesus ’ adoption was provided for by a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 15 / 15 93 C.E. "To order the entry into force of the Ukrainian Act on the Status of Judges." Prior to its entry into force, it is proposed that the judges’ salary be determined on a multiple basis from the subsistence minimum of working persons. The legislation did not address the issue of the housing arrangements of the judges of the Ukrainian Court of Appeal, the Court of Cassation and the higher specialized courts proposed in the draft, and the matter is being resolved. The difficulty of dealing with housing issues is simply beyond the capacity of the local government authorities to do so except for the city of Kiev and Sevastopol. In part, they will be removed by placing these responsibilities on local self - government authorities, which have a housing foundation. It is also proposed to regulate the judge’s right to obtain a residence by decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of March 20, 2002, to renew the judge’s right to obtain official representation. These issues should be settled by the centralized state, the judicial administration. Prior to the establishment of the administration, it is proposed that judges be compensated for the service of dissuasion, since this is an essential part of the judges ’ budget. Similarly, it is suggested that the issue of the provision of travel for sanatorium treatment should be addressed. Unlike government officials, prosecutors. The Law on the Status of Judges did not address the issue of the social protection of the families of judges in the event of loss, the death of a judge. The project proposes that family members who were held by judges in the event of his death be entitled to a pension at the expense of the breadwinner. Ukraine’s Act of Amendments and Supplements to Articles 43, 44, 45 of the Ukrainian Law will require additional financial expenses only in part of the right of judges to resign, for additional leave. Dealing with the wages of the judge and the social protection of the judges, their families in connection with the disability and loss of the breadwinner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u130	Thank you. I invite you to the report Sergio Anatolyevich Ivanova. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich Ivanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, you have just listened to a law that is not measured by what I'm about to say. It's two disproportionate things. If this law is about improving the material condition of judges and so on, and so on, my changing the status of judges provides some opportunity to make our courts more or less just so that the citizen, by going to court, is not guided by what the more money will do. What do I mean? I'm starting with an example. We're taking Chelkino, Leninsky district. The President of the Court of Chernysh systematically takes bribes in criminal cases against poachers. Those who are sentenced on parole receive bribes. He doesn't give money, he gets a deadline. Where this Judge Chernyshov is today, in Russia, no one holds him responsible because there is no mechanism as such to bring him to justice. The judge of the Lower Carniolan region of Linnikov was charged with bribes because she tried to demand $10,000 from minors for the fact that those at the school who had entered the workshop had stolen four drunkards. But the investigator calculated the damage on a particularly large scale and replaced these kids with the theft on a particularly large scale. We're in custody. Where Linnnikov is today, she's in Roshia. Therefore, to date, we have a rule in the Constitution, article 126, which states that a judge cannot be detained and arrested without the consent of the Supreme Council. It's an axiom. And I do not want to violate the constitutional norm in any way. But the change that I make, which says no one has the right to detain, is to arrest a judge without the consent of the Supreme Council under the law in force. One phrase is by the law in force. Today, the law in force is an article in the Code of Criminal Procedure of 106th, 115th. So I say, no one has the right to be detained by a judge under article 106, 115, and to be incarcerated within three days, as provided by law. But I'll give you examples. He's driving the judge in a state of impertinence, he's taking the kid down. The police are on their way to the scene. Today, by the law in force, it is sufficient to establish that he is a judge, and he must be released immediately under our law. Without drawing up the pattern of the crime, he's leaving. Is there any way to prove guilt if there's not even a pattern? One. I'll get the second one. Yeah, don't interrupt me, I understand you have something to do with the judge. Second. Let's say there's a woman coming. That's what I'm telling you from my own examples. A woman comes in, says: a recess in court, my son must now be sentenced after lunch. The lawyer said you'd bring in 10,000, on parole. What am I supposed to do? We answer them, the law enforcement authorities answer: sorry, we are unable to influence this system because in order for us to go with you now, and when you hand it over, we need to go to Kiev, get the Attorney General's and the Court's approval, and only after that do we start. Thus, tens, hundreds of such statements, have been overlooked. I repeat. Even the most axiom everyone needs to understand. In no case does my amendment to the Law on the Status of Judges violate the Constitution. Moreover, I stress once more that no one has the right to detain and arrest a judge, but to do so at the time of the execution and to draw up the necessary initial document, then to release, the question should not be about detention, to release, and then to notify both the prosecutor and the court, and then the judge has the right to prove that it was incitement or, say, it was provocation, he has a field to justify. But today, when we go to court, we have to make sure that things are handled by law, not, forgive me, by definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u132	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Alexander Mikhailovich Pasenyuk of the Ministry of Justice, from the government, more specifically. Your attitude, your assessment of these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u133	According to the government, all the bills that are being tabled by the Supreme Council are unacceptable because you have seen how many bills and there is no systematic approach to amending the law. In every law there are contradictions both to the Constitution of Ukraine and to the law in force. I believe that amendments should be made to the Judicial Act, to the status of judges in connection with the adoption of the Judicial Act, but not in this way. I mean, it's got to be the only consistent approach to these bills. I believe that both laws are unacceptable and need to be followed up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u134	Thank you. I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Onopenek Vasil Vasilovich, to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u135	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! I would like to clarify some details about the relevant bills. We are today discussing four bills that relate to changes in the status of the court. In my view, such changes should be made because the Law on the Status of Judges was adopted in December 1992 and is outdated. He doesn't answer to the Constitution. We know that since last year the Judicial Act has been enacted, June 1, certain provisions of the Status of Judges Act do not correspond to this Judicial Act. And what has happened to us as regards regulating the activities of the judges, is that I am in charge of the representative of the government, my colleague Pasenyuk. The fact is that what is not regulated by the Law on the Status of Judges is regulated by the President's decrees. And I'm asking you to answer me if the President's orders are consistent with the Constitution? I think that according to the Constitution certain relations should be governed by law. The other thing that we can agree with is, no, it's already the right of deputies. That is why I believe that amendments should be made to the Law on the Status of Judges. These are guarantees of the independence of the courts and the judges, these guarantees of their responsibility, as was the case, my fellow national deputy of John, should reinforce the responsibility of the judges, and that is why the amendments to the Law on the Status of Judges have been made. We have four bills. The Committee on Legal Policy was determined to base Bill 2491, which was introduced by Onopenek, Oneichuk, Moses and Sirenk, because it is a basic bill. It's a nice bill by Melniczuk. I simply thank the judicial corps for these suggestions. And there's my separate bill that's been introduced. This is how we define ourselves. Take one as a base. What the MP Melniczuk is doing there is a partial repetition of the proposals -- they're making proposals, they're repeating -- and they're generalizing that we go out on second reading with the corresponding bill. I understand that there should be money under this bill. So we don't question the immediate realization of this. changes to the law on the status of judges, but that's what needs to be done. So I'm more likely to predict that for the next year, the changes will be made. It is essential to bring them in. So let's say, let me give you a couple of examples. The current law on the status of judges states: "The State guarantees the financial and technical security of judges and courts." [[Part 3 Article 3]] But we don't know that the courts today are only provided for what the budget provides for about 50 percent, if that's good, 60 percent. There's nothing to write, to deliver a convoy. This reflects, first of all, not only on justice, on protection, on the proper protection of citizens’ rights and freedoms. Therefore, with regard to amendments to the Law on the Status of Judges, we thereby increase both the activity, the legal basis of the court, and the reliable protection of citizens' rights and freedoms. We make changes and we define more clearly who might be the judge of a specialised court, who might be the judge of the Court of Appeal, how the termination aid is paid to the retired judges. It is the law that introduces the question, not the President's decree on the salaries of judges of different levels. Finally, I and my colleagues are invited to add to article 43, which states that such retired judges are considered judges who have retired from their position as judges, either on their own terms or on their own terms, or on the basis of their election to the positions of public authorities and local self - government on the condition that they have an internship in which they have the right to resign and receive monthly life support. Suggestions are also made to others who strengthen the responsibility of the judge, including those who have the opportunity to violate disciplinary responsibility. It's about these three laws. With regard to the bill of deputy Ivanov. I'll finish. I understand your concern, which is a lot of corrupt judges, has to fight them. But in this way, as you suggest, to arrest the judge, arrest him, so you can't ask the question, it's unconstitutional. And the investigation can and should be carried out if the judge committed the crime you were talking about. We are holding committee hearings on 13 March on the state of judicial reform in Ukraine, where all the negative activities of judges will be exposed, where proposals will be made to improve the functioning of the judicial system, the bodies that carry out court decisions, procedural legislation, so please come to the committee hearings and make your proposals. There is no limit for improvement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u136	Thank you. Please have a seat. Please, Ivanov. The replica. Please sit down, Vasil Vasilovich. Turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Ivanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u137	Vladimir Mihajlovich, ill, of course, what we say was not asked about it, and so we move quickly, so any phrases that do not fit the bill, the changes that I make, are somehow perceived. Right now, Onopenko is speaking and says that we cannot allow them to be arrested and detained. That's not what I'm proposing in the law, it's not in the law. The law only contains a phrase to hold back at the time of the crime and to draw up the necessary document, and to release immediately rather than delay, as the opponent claims. So we need to make this very clear. We do not detain or arrest this amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u138	Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Anatoliyovich, faction of Our Ukraine, Carmazin. Prepare the Clouds.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u139	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, the long - suffering people of Ukraine, are now proposing changes, of course. absolutely by various laws, they are only attracted by the ears to consider in one question only one criterion, which is that there are courts. On the first question, do you need independence from any court? Yes, I do. Is this independence guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine? Yeah, secure. I remind Ukrainian citizens, first of all, I refer to judges, article 92 of the Constitution says: exclusively the laws of Ukraine define the judiciary, the judiciary, the status of judges and so on. [[14th]] What is in practice? Presidential decree of March 5, 2002: 50 per cent for the intensity to the salary. President of Ukraine's decree of March 5 the same is 80 percent for tension. Order of the President of Ukraine 19.09. 96, notice, it was set before the election, 96 judges for intensity. Presidential decree of the year 95 for high achievements. Kabminu’s decree of 13.12.99, and who also exempt him from paying taxes? By what decrees, by what decrees? And keep quiet. And let's keep quiet because you were silent here because, Vasil Vasilovich, that's how you took that position. That's why we lost court power! The accumulated judicial authority today is at its root! And you're proposing today, look at the table you're offering. There was a salary, written, before the entry into force of the 2817 will be -11507. It's a little bit more leadership. The Ministry of Justice writes, not me, the Ministry of Justice, read: in 2004, 1 billion will be needed in 2004. 171.5 thousand. Are we good people?Oh, my God! School has nothing to do with repairs, teachers say! One in three appeals at the reception of a national MP are court-martialed judges. And yet we're district judges, we're bullying them, they're really nothing. They have a salary of 10 times less than or equal to 8 times less than that of a member of the Constitutional Court. And instead, we're pushing law enforcement personnel among ourselves now, because we're not going to provide it to the militia, we're not going to provide it to the prosecutors, we're not going to provide it to the investigator, and now there's going to be an intermission. The reform of wages needs to be done together, and the role of judges needs to be promoted together. And as for the bill, Sergio Ivanova, honourable national deputies, open your eyes! He writes, only in that case does he suggest that a judge be detained for suspicion of murder and bribery -- two cases. Are these cases to be settled? They probably do. And finally, I came to you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and unfortunately, I didn't get an answer in the legal term, and now I'm going to the plenary of the Supreme Court about the most corrupt institution -- this is a farm-based so-called higher court. I have addressed you with the fact that the head of this court, Dmitri Pritica, does not have the authority of the judge, does not have the authority of the court. And today people are being appointed, things are being resolved, and so on. But for any state, it's a horror, and we're putting up with it. I'm going to the parliamentary committees: let's stop the saviour!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u140	Stephen Ilkovich Cloud. You're taking all the time! Thank you, thank you. Stephen Ilkovich Cloud, Andrew Schlell next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u141	Dear National Deputies! In order not to repeat myself, I want to say that I am fully attached to what National Deputy Carmazin has said. I would like to point out immediately that I am surprised by the position of the Committee on Legal Policy. And what was even more surprising was the statement by Vasil Vasilovich Onopenk regarding the proposals made by the national deputy John concerning changes to the law on the status of judges, not about arrest, and he said clearly from the rostrum. But then Vasil Vasilovich continues to disinform the people's deputies. I want to say that yes, indeed, we need to make adjustments, settle a lot of things. But I have great warnings about trying to amend article 34 of this law on grounds for violating disciplinary action against judges. So the list here literally says, "The right to initiate the question of disciplinary responsibility of a judge belongs to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the head of the higher-ranking court concerning judges of the relevant level and so forth, the minister of justice, the head of the appropriate council of judges, the members of the council of judges." First of all, I think, for example, it's totally inappropriate to include a minister of justice there, because this is already going to be the intervention of the executive branch of power in the court. Instead, the right to initiate, take such an initiative, or even narrow down the respective functions of the Supreme Council and, in particular, the National Deputy, as well as the High Council of Justice, has disappeared. I'd like that. This is a constitutional body, the Supreme Council of Justice, which, according to the law on the Higher Council of Justice, should take care of the selection of the judiciary for the principles of high professionalism and morals. And you don't have to pay attention to the fact that today the High Council of Justice, if you take an amendment to this law, that today the High Council of Justice is working outside the legal field, because the head is illegal, is the head of the Supreme Council of Justice. And the Supreme Council of Justice takes its decisions against the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine. We don't have to push ourselves out of this. We have to do this to get the High Council of Justice back on track, but its functions do, too, have to provide full functions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u142	Andrew Shkel, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, prepare for the Chernewicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I'd like to ask you to understand what this is all about. What is, of course, problems in the system are also commonplace, and there are different people among the judges, and there are many problems. That's what everybody knows. I'm not going to get your attention on this. But what every similar law that I read, where the right of a national MP to go to trial, that is to say, before the national MP had the right to initiate the recall of a judge, and now he doesn't. Understand, that is one of the laws that takes this right away. We all have a responsibility to the Ukrainian people, to all the Ukrainians, by voting very often blindly for granting the right to live up to their duties as judges. So we voted for the judge to work forever and then we lose control of him. Even if we withdraw, we no longer have the right to recall it, but to initiate the right of recall. All of this, that is, we lost, with enormous responsibility for the fate of the people to whom this judge judges, at the same time we lost complete control. That is why I fully agree that reform of the entire system is needed by the judiciary in Ukraine and, above all, by the reform of the appointment of judges. The institute of permanent judges, he, of course, was received prematurely. And here's a proposal to completely de-control the activities of the judges. It doesn't happen and it can't. The common thing is, I can predict what may have been provoked against the judge, there may be a bribe put out by a judge who honestly carries out his duties, who does not want to go about and serve the existing regime. But these bribes are often carried under the pressure of the judge himself. Very often the judge is dependent only on the superior leadership that keeps him at his feet, because he has once given in. And it's very serious about the decision-making process of the judge. And let's not forget that a judge is a living law. The judge declares, declares, not his own opinion or authority, or his leadership, or the head of the district court, he has to stand down, arguing solely by law. So I'd like to take a decision on these bills in the future, when we discuss it, so that every national MP knows that he can circumcise his rights himself. We are representatives of the people here, we are very often the last institution to which our electorate refers. Therefore, we have no right to deprive ourselves of the possibility of not influencing the work of judges. The first thing to do is to initiate them to call them off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u144	Leonid Chernewsky, non-fractional. Dobkin will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u145	Dear Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Leonid Chernovecki, Darnicke constituency of the city of Kiev. I want to tell you something very important, yes. There are two very different problems: the problems of the inviolability of judges, the strengthening of their authority and the other problem is what we are doing in the country today. What's happening in our country today is happening in all of our branches of government and everywhere. And that's completely out of the question for judges, because in order for us to live in a democratic state and be able to count on judges, and in order for them to make decisions, we need to strengthen their integrity, increase their salary “depending on what expenses we have there”, I completely disagree with the idea that they don't get the militia or anyone else to do so, because the judge is the person who realizes the highest justice. And today, Ukrainian citizens have simply not learned to enjoy the full potential of the judicial branch of power. I fully support the bill passed by my colleague and serious expert Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, Mr. Moysik and Onischuk. It's the right bill. But this is just the beginning of the rule of law in Ukraine. When you get dragged illegally into prison or start doing a search or some shit, then whoever votes against Vasili Vasilievich Onopenka's bill will remember. What are you doing? Can we do it today? Unfortunately, I can't influence the whole Parliament, can I? - but let them listen to those who do. Today there are a very large number of people listening to the radio. I mean, go to court as much as you can. You can have justice there. Nowhere else. Neither in Parliament nor, unfortunately, in the executive branch of power. Count on your judges. Our task — parliamentarians — is to strengthen them as much as possible. Yes, there are problems. There's some bullshit about a drunk judge going in there that can't be held back. He can't be held up. There's nothing you can do to him because he's doing justice. And we will also consider our issues with you when we intercede for our constituents. I am actively doing this in the courts, and I report to you that today many judges and many courts are handling excellent questions in the courts and today I have been able to repeal several orders: Kabmina, various ministries and departments. And this is a very serious novel.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u146	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u147	Please follow the Bill Vasili Vasilievich Onopenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u148	Please, Michaela Bobkin. A group called Democratic Initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u149	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Mikhail Dobkin, town of Harikov, "Democratic Initiatives". The topic of justice will always, at any time, be very relevant at any time of the year, because the judge has such specific work, where at least one of the parties remains dissatisfied with his work. To date, while listening to previous colleagues, I cannot be pleased to note that, despite the fact that we are all in different political factions, this issue is not being raised in the political sphere. It is already said that everyone understands and understands the importance of the issue itself. With regard to the bills that we have been considering today, I would like to say that we cannot influence the judge's conscience, we cannot force him to think of any moral categories that are close to us. The only thing that the Supreme Council can do is to create such legislation, allow such a framework to be fully excluded from the very conditions for corruption and, at the same time, do not transfer from the other side to pressure the judges of any authority: local, public and us, including. I therefore partially agree with the bill of the People's MP Ivanov that when a judge is given the opportunity to work as a judge for life, he should not feel the fullest impunity. Because a sense of complete impunity leads to irresponsibility and permissibility. At the same time, I fully agree with my fellow MPs, who are proposing a fundamental change in the material base of the work of our courts. Because. By allowing the poor in which our courts work, the kopecks that our judges receive contribute to the situation of bribes and possible violations of laws. I therefore propose that we take these laws very carefully. And the colleague of Ivan spoke, he said that their judge had committed, there, an offence and was hiding in Russia, there, another judge violated, too. We have the Kharkiv region very close to Russia, yet for a year we have been trying to fight a very reliable judge named Borodin, and I hope that we will soon find out the legitimate methods. He's broken so much and he's not running to Russia. But what am I trying to say? It may be necessary to consider that, if we are trying to improve their material base, those disorderly, dishonest people who use their position for useful purposes have been deprived of all that the State has given them to teachers, doctors and everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u150	Yes, Vasil Vasilovich, the conclusion of the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u151	First of all, let me thank all those who participated in the discussion of these bills. This tells us that you care about what happens in the judicial system. There were emotions here. You can also understand those who spoke emotionally. Some calculated the huge sums, Carmazin called 11,000 the average amount. I don't think that's what we need to worry about today. Maybe it needs 15,000, maybe 5,000. Let's conceptually go to what needs to be changed for the better. I'm willing to question the judges' further responsibility as chairman of the committee and what Andrew School said, for example, so that every national MP has the right to file a disciplinary action against a judge. I don't mind it being, but let's speak in a substantive way and qualify. There is a decision of the Constitutional Court, by which this provision has been excluded from the Court of Justice Act. So I would like to, but we can't do that, so we need to look for other legal mechanisms of influence. Dear colleagues, it is not necessary to strengthen the prosecutor’s supervision of the court. The prosecutor is as involved in the trial as the lawyer, as the defendant, as the expert and other participants in the trial. The period of prosecutorial supervision has come to an end, and he has to oversee the operational and search activity, the investigation, everything that is now in force in the Constitution. We need to strengthen the judicial supervision of the courts, especially local courts. And here we really have to do it. And I think we're already making these proposals. This is a problem today, so that you know, in imperfect procedural codes -- both in the Civil Procedural and in the Criminal Procedural. As a result of a small reform, the court was further away from the people. The people have become less protected, and we think about it, and the committee will consider these issues. With regard to the bill of deputy Ivanov. Mr. Ivanov, you've been preparing this bill, please read it yourself carefully. I'm here today to keep people from being deceived, so what are you suggesting? Excluding from article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges the position that the immunity of the judge extends to his residence, service premises, transportation, communications, correspondence, property and documents. establish the possibility of arresting a judge for the suspicion of committing a crime during the period of time to carry out the necessary investigations with immediate reports of this to the prosecutor and the head of the court, to provide for the possibility of entering the residence or service of the judge, his personal or official transport, conducting an examination, search, removal only after a criminal case has been committed and on the basis of a court decision. Then at least sneeze on your bill, don't make me notice! I give you a professional answer. There's the conclusion of a science-expert facility where the stones are not left at your disposal. Your proposals contradict the Constitution, the law. I am ready and members of the Committee on Legal Policy for a serious professional discussion. But I'd like everyone to hear that if we don't defend the court today, the court won't protect us tomorrow. The Chernewsky spoke correctly here from this rostrum. And what you're saying is fabulous sums. Today, the judge of the local court receives 300 bracelets, perhaps a little more, without all the allowances. If the state does not provide, then someone will ensure the work of the court. And you have to put a dot on the independence of the court. I'll tell you that the vast majority of judges are honest, decent people. I'm just wondering how they're still working on these jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u152	Yes, Ivanov, the replica. I'm asking you, let's work, not exchange lines. Please, Ivanov, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u153	Well, I'm taking the floor because a very serious subject is being addressed. First of all, I am approached as if I am against the bill that Onopenko is proposing regarding the material encouragement of judges. Why am I here and my law to his law? That's the first one. You can't mix two things up. I don't have to deal with it, I'm totally in favour of improving the material well-being of our judges. Secondly, I ask once again that everyone read the law carefully before people vote because there is no violation of the Constitution in this bill. Second, it is not a question of “detainment”, but it is a question of drafting the initial documents of the investigators at the time of the commission of the crime. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u154	Yeah, it's a line. Yuri Carmazin, Mikhailo Melniczuk later.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u155	Yuri Carmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Now there's a phrase that Carmazin gave in his "medium" statement. I want to refer to a document by the Ministry of Justice from January 20, 2003, which says on sheet number 11: "Before the change takes effect, the wage is 2817, after the entry is 11507." It's since 01.01.2003. Since 01.07.2003 after the increase - 14741 in leadership - 15155 respectively. This is signed by the Deputy Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u156	Turn off the microphone, please. Mikhailo Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u157	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear friends, colleagues, I am very grateful that I have made critical remarks about the bill that I have presented. And certainly every MP has an opinion. I'd still like to pay attention to the following. That the bill I passed evenly compensates the imbalance of social protection between judges and prosecutors. You, your esteemed colleagues who have worked in the past call, should clearly realize that you have done everything for the prosecutors. On July 12, 2001, you passed a law that put the officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office on a higher scale. So why were we against the judges today? Yes, there are definitely bribes, yes, there are others. If we do not take a step to protect the judges, we will have what we have today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u158	Thank you. Vasil Onopenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to put the final dot, not called the last name. It's about pay. If we don't make the law, this salary will be set by decrees. If you wish to establish such judicial independence from executive authority, please install. Next. It was suggested that the judge could not take appropriate procedural action. This can be done today. You can't just arrest and detain, because that's what the Constitution provides. All other procedural actions are provided for by the Criminal Procedure Code, and this is used by both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police and other law enforcement agencies.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u160	Thank you. Alexander Mikhailovich Pasenyuk, you have not changed your mind, government.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u161	I haven't really changed my mind. I think that really is the law on the status of judges passed almost 10 years ago, and it needs a fundamental change. But I repeat, it's not a random change, it's a unified bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u162	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, a review of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges concerning the conditions for the exercise of justice and the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges on Inviolability has been completed with regard to these draft laws. Decisions will be made taking into account the discussion on the day of the vote. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2003 is being announced for consideration. Reporter Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna. Please. The committee thus proposes: 7 minutes for the report, 5 minutes for co-reporting and discussion. For 30 minutes, this bill is such a committee proposal. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u163	Julia Volodymyrna, Head of the Fatherland Party Block, U.S.D.P.D., Sobor. I would like to report now on the changes and additions to the State Budget Act. I'm sorry, really, what's the most important question, such as changes and additions to the State Budget, is considered practically in an empty hall, where there's a little bit more, I've counted more than 70 people. And the question itself is about changing the minimum wage, this is about increasing the wages of teachers, doctors, scientists, everyone without excluding budget workers, who today have practically zero wages. Dear friends, on December 26, 2002, we all passed the Minimum Wages Act 2002 with a view to providing financial security for the implementation of the minimum wage of 185 dollars from 1 January 2003 and starting on July 1, 237 dollars per month with a minimum wage. It is clear that with the increase in the minimum wage, wages also increase for all budget workers who, in the tariff network, have certain intervals between the minimum wage and other tariff rates. It's been two months. Not from a government that has not agreed on a working group committee, although the Minimum Wages Act has been in effect since January 1, 2003. And I would now like to explain what the bill on changes and additions to the budget presented by the three opposition factions looks like: the Communist faction, the socialist and the faction that I lead. The concept of this bill has nothing to do with political populism, not with a substantial reduction in expenditure on certain ministries and offices, is based on a deep calculation of the change in our entire economic life if we introduce a double increase in minimum wage. It is understandable to all the financiers and economists who are in the hall that, with this change in wages, all macro-indicators will be virtually changed in Ukraine. Of course, the income portion of many taxes will also have some changes. And that's why I'd like to put out a concept that we're proposing right now in our changes to the State Budget. This concept will enable a double increase in the minimum wage, which will lead to an increase of about 50 percent in wages for workers in education, health, science, all social security workers, and regional courts, which we have discussed today at the Supreme Council. What is the concept? First. This double increase in minimum wage is financially possible. When you're told it's impossible, it's fantastic, don't believe it, because financial calculations tell you otherwise. In order to raise the minimum wage, you and I need 7 billion 288 million dollars in the budget. But this is if we raise everyone, without excluding all ministries and departments, including those ministries and departments that have already had an increase in wages, these are force structures, DPAs and so on. The concept that we offer is made up of three parts. The first part is to review the revenue of the State and the budget. What does that mean? As Ukraine’s salary rises by 7 billion 288 million, it is only in the budget area. In addition, there will be an increase in income tax in general in all sectors of our economy. This is absolutely obvious. There will also be an increase in tax revenues for the added value of excise duties and many other taxes. They're going to have an increase. Why? Clearly, taxes on the income of individuals. The tax base is increasing. With regard to all other taxes, when wages in this amount increase, the consumption of certain goods increases, and this will also lead to an increase in the income portion of the budget. Using calculations, I emphasize here, I ask you to pay attention! - using the Ministry of Finance's calculations, today we have clear figures on how much the income portion of the budget is going to go up. And I can give you these numbers. These are the accounts of the Ministry of Finance. In addition to the U.S. budget, we will receive a tax on the added value of 672.8 million dollars. In addition to the State budget, the Excise Assembly is 157.8 million dollars. An additional revenue tax of 1 billion 552 million dollars will be added to local budgets; [[As per Minfin's calculations]] The excise collection is 11.3 million dollars; The market collection is 40 million dollars. And we have in total revenue 2 billion 434 million extra dollars that are going to be in the income part of the budget. Of course, this revenue is not enough, but the second ingredient we have is an increase in the Pension Fund again, according to the Ministry of Finance, by 3.7 billion dollars as compared to what is planned for 2003. [[And the pension fund, you know, is on the payroll fund.]] You realize that such a significant increase will make it possible to increase pensions in a significant way. And that's why we're taking the state budget expenditure away from the pension fund, which isn't social accounting, it's not social accounting, it's social security deductions, it's taxes that we've taken with you to complete the pension fund. In the budget, this is the sum of billions of $752 million from the State budget to the Pension Fund. They don't need to be added to the Pension Fund from the state budget right now, because the Pension Fund itself will get 3.7 billion dollars extra. This is an ingredient that can significantly increase our financial capacity to increase the minimum wage and save the opportunity to increase our pensions to Ukraine's citizens. The third element is that we have the Ministry of Finance's proposals to reduce the share of the cost to the road fund, and this costs us today, which can be reduced, 366.8 million is to reduce the accounting rate from 70 percent to 55, that's what Minfin proposed. The third ingredient is a 100 million downsizing geological exploration. The cost of geological exploration, 100 million, and the reserve fund of the Cabinet of Ministers, which accounts for 390 million in the budget, was always only 200 million in the budget of Ukraine. We've cut 120 million spending on this very fund of government, the special fund of government, the reserve fund. And in general, you and I have 4 billion 704 million on account of these two sources, the budget revenue and the partial redistribution, which does not affect the reduction of expenditure in any of the ministries and departments in Ukraine. I'm asking you to pay attention to that. And the third element of this change, it's just that, in that plane is that we don't add extra funds to some ministries. It's all the power ministries, it's the government's administration of the affairs that he's funding today, including the President's detention. We don't take the money, even though we have to raise it. But in order to combine the hall and accept the increase in minimum wage, we don't touch the expenditure of any ministries, we don't shorten it, but we don't add it to the expenditure of these ministries, and we owe it to the budget just to redistribute the funds to ensure compliance in these ministries and minimum wages and certain ratios. Dear friends! The proposed budget is fully balanced by income and expenditure. For the first time, the deputies calculated all the apps, both the first and the second and the third, and the fifth, are all the apps that make up the entire budget balance, taking into account the distribution and the areas. I beg you, I beg of you, we must all be here to justify the trust of the people who brought us here. Such changes that we propose allow 50 percent to raise the wages of doctors, teachers, all those working in these fields, social workers, scientists, and so on. I'm just asking you not to reject, because there's opposition in Parliament and there's a lot of it, but to learn, to accept it on the first reading, and then we can work out what's causing doubt. When we discussed this concept that we're proposing today, there was only one observation from Azarov, the minister of finance, that we'd have to pay taxes from the first month of the year, pay minimum wage, and we get taxes in about 3-4 months as a part of the minimum wage increase, that is to say, we get a breakup. This can be overcome without any doubt by the fact that, in the first quarter of 2003, it is a priority to pay wages, and capital expenditure, other expenses that do not apply to wages, start to finance, for example, from the second quarter, and the same balance is maintained. In addition, for a period of four to five months, temporary loans can be taken to finance budget breaks. This is also possible and then returned when additional revenue is received. This is a very responsible question because it relates to the lives of a quarter of the population of Ukraine. I ask you to pay attention and vote in favour of the first reading tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u164	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Have a seat, please. From the Committee, Peter Alexeiovich Prashenko, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs. Dear colleagues, read what we agreed on on on the conciliatory council, that this goes by the reduced procedure -- the reports and the speeches. That's all there was to it. Seven minutes, and the report was 12 minutes. There's all the questions and all the speeches. What are some of the questions we are considering? That's not the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, I am very impressed by the position of the author of the bill, the authors who expressed themselves during Julia Volodymyryn's speech that we should consider draft changes to the budget, by avoiding the politicization of this project, the dissension of most of it, the opposition, we should be very professional, and it was from these approaches that the budget committee approached when reviewing and analysing the bill. First of all, the bill certainly contains a huge amount of positive. At the time of the 2003 draft budget, we had been absolutely consciously trying to prove to the then government that the government's income portion of the budget was understated, which by the main types of taxes was the value added tax, the import tax, the excise tax collection, the company income tax. The calculations made by the budget committee are perfect. Now we've analyzed the January-February budget for the treasury's operational data. Dear colleagues, I'm very pleased to inform you that the budget is being implemented in full volume, and by those kinds of taxes on our calculation methods that I have called you, we really do have confirmation of the conclusions of the budget committee, and, in fact, a failure to confirm the position of individual skeptics that the budget that was offered to you was "puffed," had air and all that. So, of course, when we work on the budget changes, we have to take into account the individual positions that have been put forward by the drafters of the bill in their document, and the committee at its meeting has taken the following decision. First of all, for the reasons I'm going to tell you right now, the committee does not support the bill introduced by these authors, but it recommends that the Supreme Council take into account the proposals made in this bill when it comes to the development of a single project agreed upon with the government, where we take into account the need to implement the minimum wage law and increase the corresponding wage. Now for what reason. The first source pointed out by the author of the bill is the so - called supplementary retirement congregations. In our national budget, these funds are projected at a sum of over 1 billion 600 million dollars. This. In fact, the State’s obligation to pay pensions to certain categories of citizens. This is no further contribution from the state budget to the Pension Fund. And in the opinion of the Committee, which is certainly to be either supported or not by the Supreme Council, that the social situation of our pensioners is no better than the social situation of the people working. At the same time, when we meet with voters, we are constantly asked when pension reform will be implemented. The only reason why pension reform is blocked is because we don't seem to have the right funding at the Pension Fund, which is supposed to require between 3 billion and 7 billion dollars. We have made a commitment that this year, perhaps in this session, we will adopt a law on pension reform that will allow us to eliminate the balance sheet among pensioners and allow people to receive pensions according to salary, internship, and other things. And certainly now to determine in this way that we are removing the resources of the Pension Fund in order to solve the equally important social task of raising the minimum wage, this decision has to be definitely political, we have to understand what we are voting for. The second question is this is an extremely risky proposal for borrowing to pay the minimum wage in the first quarter. I'm sure it's extremely risky when we spend our budget on paying off a percentage to commercial banks. I have huge doubts that this is an effective way of using budget money. Third. The bill, as the author rightly points out, does not provide for the implementation of the minimum wage law in all without excluding ministries, that is, a whole range of sectors we simply leave unanswered: where do they take money to enforce these laws? The authors suggest that they make an internal redistribution, make an internal contraction, and make a proper search for internal resources. But in the committee's opinion, when we've been calculating budget requests, it's a very risky step, and in all areas of the national economy, we don't actually allocate any money to perform an extremely important function, such as implementing the minimum wage law and raising it. And the last. This is an impact on macroeconomic performance. As the authors rightly point out by most macroeconomic indicators, we're going to be predicting an increase in revenue. Of course, this will apply to the citizen’s income tax, with a solution to the local budget situation. But macroeconomic indicators such as the level of inflation, such as the gross domestic product, according to the Ministry of Economics, according to the government, will have a significant reduction. This rate of income in the budget, such as profit in the business sector, will also have a significant reduction. And in general, dear colleagues, this is going to be a completely different budget. According to the figures given by the venerable Julia Volodymyrical, indeed, the budget will be changed if I'm not mistaken by 7.3 billion. So we have to implement the Minimum Wages Act, which requires 7.3 billion to be implemented in full. The drafters certainly don't take full account of the bill, but the change in billions of dollars of budget figures means that it's a completely different budget with completely different consequences, a much higher risk of non-implementation. And we certainly have a risk of going back to such a shameful phenomenon as the emergence and increase of debt on the salaries of the budgeters. Of course, these positions are unacceptable, but once again, I stress, the decision of the budget committee was as follows: the bill was not supported, but all the positive that the drafters had submitted was taken into account in the drafting of a single bill involving the authors in its drafting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u166	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Maksuta Anatoly Arkadyovich is the first Deputy Secretary of State. The position of the government on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u167	I don't want to repeat myself with the arguments that were made in the speech and in the statement by Julius Volodymyrna and Peter Alexiyovich on individual arguments by the government and not counting certain income tax losses and in relation to the Pension Fund we also support the position of the committee, and I want to add to this that taking into account the additional revenue from the citizens' income tax, which is in the bill, which is one and a half billion dollars, it needs a virtually full count of the local budgets that are now approved by 99.2 percent. So this increase in income tax is different for different budgets. So the government's position is in line with the committee's position that this is not acceptable, but some elements of this bill can be used when preparing a coherent project.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u168	When will the government bring what can be accepted?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u169	Now we're working with the committee on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u170	Let's move on to the discussion. Enlighten those who have signed up. I suggest that we continue our work for 15 minutes so that we can conclude our discussion. Please, Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u171	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! Now, of course, it was very difficult to speak to Petra Dustenk as a member of the professional committee, because he was 100 percent souled for the suggestions that had been made, and with his heart as an expert, he was to carry out that ungrateful mission of the head of the budget committee. I am grateful to Julia Volodymyrni, Peter Simonenka, Frost, and the Pavlov National Deputies who prepared the draft changes. Amendments to the State Budget Act should be adopted, and this is clear. Another question. I didn't understand you, Julia Volodymyrna, I just didn't get it. What is it? Someplace your opposition to the DSS, to the State Administration, has gone somewhere, and somehow we don't get the full cost that was wrongly approved for the first time. What is this, some kind of interesting position? We just don't see that the State Administration is funded, the State Administration is planning 191 million 570,000, more than the entire legislative branch of power than the Parliament. And we're not changing anything so that we don't break what, what arrangements, with what deal? If you change the budget, if you raise the salaries of the budget. So let's get rid of the so-called State Administration. Don't let the colonel generals run the offices there, and they don't have colonel generals. Take the money from here, too. Next. I am firmly opposed to the fact that if we go into the State Budget Act, we do not set the security standard for a single judge. You leave 14 million 424 thousand to the Constitutional Court for 18 judges and leave to the local courts for everyone who is 280. 182 million. And there are 3,000 807 units. That's what I said. Less than 60,000 is the provision of 1 judge in the area and 800,000 in the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Dear friends! I'm for being very good around here and there, but when it's hard in the country, let's think about it. Let us think that the children of Ukraine also want to rest as do the children who are scheduled in the children’s health camps of State Administration. What about the others? I'm against seeing the President of Ukraine as much as it was. I don't need eight visits to Russia. Shorten it, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u172	Thank you. Please, Olga Hinzburg. The Communist faction. Turn on the microphone from the spot. Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u173	Dear National Deputies! 161 constituency. I'm very short. I wanted to say my position. When the 2003 budget was voted in this room, only one faction of Communists did not support it. All the rest of the factions voted in favour of this budget for some reason, so to speak. But that's not what I wanted to say. I'm worried about something else. What an approach to the formation of the income part of the State Budget. I can see for myself how. So far, I don't understand why the government program is being adopted after the budget. Why is the privatization programme adopted after the adoption of the budget? In order to form the income part of the budget, these three documents must be adopted together. If I see a government program that says that to provide social security, or there's a minimum wage, or that pensions for our people are going to be done, this is going to be done, this is going to be done, this is going to be done, this is going to be done, this is going to be done, this is going to be a productive part of the budget. And we're doing it the other way around, and I don't understand why. Perhaps this should be the case when you form and then you share, or you share, only what you have. This may not be right. And this is a problem that the Communist faction supports, and I'm in my own right as a deputy major, because there are really problems. You come to the county, you can't listen to people, especially this minimum wage on businesses: no night work, no weekend work, no other problems. Teachers. The minimum wage was lower, and the tariff guide for these or tariff grading was not introduced. Because, of course, the problem is, it needs to be solved today, and no one else is going to solve it. I'm counting on the MPs to understand why this issue has arisen and support some of the issues of this budget to raise wages, other problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u174	Mikhailo Melniczuk, prepare for Pavlovski. You can't do that either. Please, Eugene Kirilchuk. Is Mikhailo Melniczuk there? None. Please, Eugene Kirilchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasize once again, although the committee head spoke about this, that, in fact, the first calculations of the income committee were 55 billion. And this figure was proved to the government. But you remember the change in government and all those colossals that the new year was on our nose, we agreed to a much lower amount of income. Today, this new calculation, the new, practically, budget proves that we have such reserves. This is confirmed by the two - month tax collection. The other one. Today, not the government and not Peter Alexiyovich did not say, but how do we get out of the colossal that the law on wage increases by the Supreme Council has been passed, and I've already read several bills: you know, let's start the promotion from the second half, let's cut from 237 to 205, and other tearful bills have already entered the hall? It's a disgrace to us, it's a humiliation to ourselves. We need to get out of this situation with our heads up, not with our eyes closed. One more. The budget committee has already received 14 bills on budget changes. Of course, this is an unusual law that breaks the balance of each of them. We discussed that question yesterday. If we adopt this law as a basis, then all 14 can be taken into account when considering the second reading in part or in full. In addition, the budget committee received a promise from the government that it would develop a serious law for several weeks on changes to the budget. Don't do it! Don't open another bike. You are provided with prepared material, respected officials, work, and in your second reading, contribute what you consider necessary. Thus, one and only one can conclude: We must adopt the law in the first reading tomorrow, or we simply should not go to the districts. I believe that tomorrow only those who are inspired and organizers of the shadow economy will vote against it, because we haven't even touched it today, and that's 60 percent of the production. We'll just get in there a little bit, and the money'll be back. And, Peter Alexiyovich, somehow it turned out so nicely, I'm done. When you said we couldn't hurt the pensioners. Julia Volodymyrna clearly and clearly said: 3.2 billion Do an extra one, and I'll keep 1.7. So twice as much money will be spent on the Pension Fund as on the Pension Fund, not on the Retirement Fund. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u176	Thank you. Leonid Chernewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u177	Darnicke constituency, Leonid Chernowitz. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, I am very anxious to tell you about the law on pornography that I can't wait any longer, and I ask you, however, perhaps for a second, to delay, because otherwise we won't consider it. I have great respect for the bill that Julia Vladimirovna proposed, which is noble, and for the objections that my friend Poroshenko Petr Aleksevich had on it, well, but I want to tell you one important thing, yes? We can only reduce corruption in the country, that is, reduce tax pressure. Tomorrow we will listen to my bill, which has not even given me the opportunity to discuss with you, the elimination of the value added tax, which is made by villains in all branches that are only possible there. And every retiree in my constituency, paying that tax in the pharmacy, when she goes and buys drugs or bread in the store, and so on, we have to reduce the pay pressure to stop her from giving up in envelopes. And then we can talk about the real budget when we at least take Russian experience -- 13 percent, not 70 percent, that we can't pay today. We'll never be rich, we'll always be poor. We will always share the money in the budget, and our fellow citizens will starve until you support my bill to eliminate the value added tax, which does not exist in the richest country in the world - the United States of America. I'm asking you to consider that this law will be passed tomorrow. And only those who profit from the blood of my fellow citizens object to it. And until we adopt this law, until we go to the 13 per cent wage law, I think the objections make sense. Although after the adoption of these laws, I think we can uphold the law of the respected Yulia Vladimirovna and begin to share the crazy money that we lose every day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u178	Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u179	Let me talk about pornography. It's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u180	Pornography is sometimes not the competence of deputies. Anything else can withstand criticism. Julia Timoshenko. Dear friends, I would very much like, frankly, to answer his questions by looking into the eyes of Prashenko, the head of the budget committee, the representative of the "Our Ukraine" faction. But imagine, a person did not even listen to the argument about the budget and left the hall on his own business. Well, I just want to look here at a certain ethics of the MP when there's a project about budget changes, and the head of the budget committee doesn't even hear any suggestions or comments. As far as I'm concerned, I can just say this, like, well, finding some completely incomprehensible arguments, it's just incompetence, incompetence and ignorance of Ukraine's budget, unfortunately. So I can say that the Pension Fund, after accepting all the supplements to the budget, gets an additional 2 billion dollars after all the transfers between the budget and the Pension Fund. And by the way, pension reform is completely unrelated to the changes proposed for the budget. This is a particular large subject that Parliament was long overdue to carry out. And so if you're asked about pension insurance, these changes and additions increase the pension fund by 2 billion. With regard to judges, 50 percent of the total salary will be raised to judges working in the regions. And it's also a major change that's really mature, and we have to do it. It's about getting rid of the President's affairs, his visits, and so on. I don't think we're going to compete with Mr. Carmazin who doesn't love our President anymore. I think it's hard to compete here. But if we touch it now, we're going to make it impossible to vote for this budget of the official majority of the Supreme Council, that is, the Presidential majority. If most people don't vote, our teachers won't be able to raise wages. That's why I'm suggesting we really need to cut back on the President's maintenance costs. In fact, it is necessary to reduce the cost of many other things that are absolutely absurd in the budget. But it is far more important today not to give what we have to do yesterday, but at least today to give it to our scientists, teachers, doctors, and so forth. I beg you, I know that the position now of the Ministry of Finance and the government does not make any changes to the budget. But, dear friends, we voted by almost all parliament to double the minimum wage. Here before me was a famous lawyer, Mr. Chernewicki, and he said, "Let's not make these changes to the budget." I want to ask him a question: if there's a minimum wage law in force on 1 January, can we not do it with you? I'm asking a lawyer a question. We cannot fail to obey this law. Otherwise, we will be like all those government officials who do not comply with the laws that we adopt. We have to at least have ethics and make our own changes through the State Budget. Thank you. Chernewsky is already in favour of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u181	Thank you. Valérie Assadchev, closing statement from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u182	Thank you. Dear Julia Volodymyr, dear friends. The Budget Committee always waits for you, always hears you, sees you, we're just stalled, you see, after the second hour, the Dusty was set to set up for the second hour. I won't say much, just two words directly under the bill. You're proposing to cut 70 percent by 55 pounds of road and say that's what the government suggested. That's right, he suggested. But when? At the budget stage, I apologize, and today we have March of the month. What does that mean? This means that the relevant institution has entered into agreements. And then when you get into the creditor debt, and the agreements are done, and people start to work on that budget assignment, and tomorrow you cut them off, and the courts start to demand it. Take into account the fact that we are today in March months, not in September of last year. These are completely different things. Now you're doing calculations on local budgets. As it might be, in Kiev, with an increase of 237 and 185 you still have an extra removal. How can that be? You have an average wage in Kiev, let's say, not the budget sector is much more minimal. And the minimum is only going to be in the budget sector, you'll never have a balance sheet, you're going to be eliminated. So this is a completely balanced budget. Although I want to confirm that the direction, the direction, in principle, your bill is somewhere right. And I want to answer now perhaps the question that Vladimir Mikhailovich asked: What are we waiting for? I'll tell you what we're waiting for. Indeed, when the budget was being developed, the committee offered an income of 52 billion. And you remember how many bills we adopted before we adopted a budget that gave extra resources to the income. The government insisted that no more than 50, that was the maximum he agreed to. Today, the real situation shows. I thought our calculations were right. And we just have to confirm this trend, because we've never been in a situation like this before when the budget with the minimum standards went so far. And we have no right to make any more mistakes. We have to cut it off once, but we have to measure it seven times. And so if the trend of increasing the income part is right, we can only do it on the basis of this increase, without touching the costs, to solve the problems of budget balance. But we need confirmation of this, we need to at least half a month in March to see how stable this position is, as far as it really is, will be spread throughout the year, and then, really, make a government-compliant, balanced budget and accept it. [[This is necessarily because he has to do this budget.]] And that's why I think the committee, of course, is going to work in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u183	Thank you. Timoshenko's replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u184	Julia Timoshenko. I, with all due respect for Valery Assadchev's expertise, and knowing how professional he is on the committee, I just want to emphasize one thing. Dear friends! Since January 1st, it's not a road fund, it's the wages of the people who do the key areas, since January 1st, the minimum wage works. Our budget is not in line with this law. We have virtually every day of balancing. If the minimum wage is to be paid without a percentage, we have a doctor - general and a junior hospital staff now receiving practically the same salary. We don't have the right to just do that. And so I ask you in the first reading to accept, and then to count the changes we have to do in a consistent way. We're going to drag on for two months, it's completely unarguable, and it's a violation of existing legislation. So I ask to vote tomorrow and to convey to my factions the need to vote in favour of these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u185	Assadchev, a replica. I'm asking you to give me the last one.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u186	I'll tell you about it. I want to remind you that the budget committee had just foreseen an option that could be 185. I want to remind you that local budgets have received an additional 1.6 billion dollars. This was intended to increase wages. And so today, since January 1, if there's an imbalance, it doesn't exist at the full limit of the minimum wage that exists today. It may exist in separate local budgets, but it is small enough. We also need to take this statistic right now, we don't have it yet. And then when 237 is introduced, there's really going to be a very big problem, but it's going to be 1 July. Let's see how we have the profit side and then I really think we're going to cut off the exercise not once, but we're going to measure 7 times before we're going to make another mistake and then we're never going to fix this mistake again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u187	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u188	I would then like to provide guidance on the fact that only 420 million out of a billion 600 have personally gone to local budgets to pay the minimum wage. Everything else went to the ratios, the increase in the minimum wage in previous periods.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u189	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u190	I want to say that 185 dollars from January 1st in full terms with the cost ratio is not provided, and everybody knows that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-05-m0.u191	Thank you. Dear colleagues! A review of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2003 has been completed. We will make a decision taking into account the discussion that took place on the day of the vote. Is there no longer a desire to continue working? That's it, that's it. Dear colleagues! I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow is the day of the vote.
