ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:03:36]] Registered -414 A total of 414 Ukrainian national deputies were registered. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be open - minded. In harmony with article 2.5.2. Wednesday's regulations have 30 minutes to announce requests, statements, messages and proposals by national MPs. Please, Your Honor, sign up for statements, messages and suggestions, and in the meantime I'll announce those questions that we should vote on. Is there no objection? A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Stepan Cloud to the President of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of destroying the base of rest of the military pilots of the Kharkiv Institute of Air Force in the town of Rogan. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:56]] For-99 The decision is not taken. I don't understand. Please explain the list of those who signed up for the performances as national deputies. Yeah, go on, show the whole list. Yes, thank you. National Deputy Olga Hinzburg to the President of Ukraine in connection with the delay of the State Executive Service of the Dnipropetrov region in the execution of the decision of the District Court and the execution of the Supreme Court of Ukraine in a criminal case number 051058KOI. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:21]] For the 120th. The decision is not taken. Mikhail Wolinz to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory status of the implementation of mine disposal projects in the territory of the Stahanov Lugansk region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:50]] For-163 Decision taken. Well, let's get it over with, then. Well, let's finish, let's vote, then, if we have to, let's give you a line. Anatoly of Damanski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the heat supply of the housing estate of Chlobodar in the city of Chernykhiv of the Žitomir region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:27]] For 133 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the building of the Justice House in Kirovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:51]] For-153 Decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for violations of the rights of pensioners and workers of the Onufriyev horse factory number 175 for obtaining rations. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:19]] For-129 Decision taken. Viktor Borszewski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the conflict situation that took place at the Dnipropetrov Steel Plant Petrovsky. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:45]] For-160. Decision taken. Georgia Manchulenka to Permier-Minister of Ukraine on counterattacks in the Kismen constituency no. 203 of the Czernovite region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:13]] For 172 Decision taken. Groups of MPs, national deputies: Baloga, Ivancho, Matviyczuk, Mihovic to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the intent of unlawful admission of the Perlina Carpathian sanatorium. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:43]] For-163 Decision taken. Mikoli Tomenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Tax Administration, on violations of legislation by prosecutors and the Tax Administration in the conduct of the "These Cases" audit. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:18]] For-126 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies Ivancho, Baloga, Matviyczuk, Mihovic to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine regarding the change in the ownership of the Kalnicki and Bobovščanski Radhospies. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:53]] For-136 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine regarding the problems of issuing a special license to the Kyorovogradian Association for the use of the taslic granite nadrama. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:25]] For 114 Decision taken. National deputies of the Infantry and Samofalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfying state of implementation of mine disposal measures in the cities of Stahanov Lugansk region, provided for by Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine No. 280 from 28.03. 97 C.E. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:12:02]] For-144 Decision taken. The National Deputies of Tsarenko and Pisarczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Audit Authority for the Financing of the Ukrainian Academy of Banking in Suma, are voting for a request. [[10:12:32]] For-93 For 93, the decision is made. Viacheslav Koval to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the situation in the village of Lisov, Grenivci, Hmelnicki district, Hmelnicki district. I'm betting on sending this request. [["10:13:08"]] For 105 For 105, the decision is made. National deputies Rodionov and Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the resolution of the funding levels of the Kyiv Political Institute. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:40]] For-146 For - 146, the decision is made. Stanislava Nikolayenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reduction of the expenditure of the general budget of Ukraine in 2002 by way of a subvention of subsidies to local budgets to partially implement article 57 of the Education Act. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:13]] For a hundred and For - 156, the decision is made. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine and the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the logging of forests in the area of Jaborów. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:41]] For a hundred and For 145. Decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Head of State Administration on the number of state residences and the cost of maintaining them for the State Budget of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:11]] For-140. For a hundred and Decision taken. Please, National Deputy Sulkovsky, you had a lineup. Please. May I have your attention, Your Honor? It's a query line. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u2	Sulkovský Pavel Gnatovic, Horistian constituency number 154, Ravenščina. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Since only at the beginning was the question of voting for requests raised, Vladimir Mikhailovich's first two questions did not get the right number of votes, because some deputies at the beginning had not yet been in their places of work and had not been oriented. Please put them to the vote. And I urge the deputies to support those first two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal is clear. At the request of the People's Deputy, I put these requests to the vote. Please note, since these are questions to the President, first you need to support the request, thirds of the vote, and then 226 to send them to the President. I put to the vote the demands of the People's Deputies of Stephen Cloud to the President of Ukraine for the inadmissibility of destroying the base for the preparation of military pilots of the Kharkiv Institute of Air Force in the town of Rogan. I would like to vote in favour of this request. [[10:16:55]] For 231 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:17:20]] For 236 Decision taken. Olga Hinzburg to the President of Ukraine in view of the delay in the State's enforcement service in the Dnipropetrov area of enforcement of the District Court decision and the Supreme Court of Criminal Procedure, 051058. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:17:56]] For 185 Decision taken. I would like to vote on this motion to the President of Ukraine. [[10:18:19]] For-183 I think we'll set up tomorrow, or on Friday, more specifically, mobilize more, dear colleagues. Let us move on to the speeches of the national deputies for the purpose of announcing requests, statements, messages, and suggestions. Please put the first part of the people who signed up on the board. Vladimir Matviev, Communist faction. Get ready, Bull.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Andrei Polito, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u5	Andy Polit, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u6	Andrei Polit, Ukrainian Comparty faction, Lenski Komsomol. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Ukrainian forces continue to marvel at their vigilance. A group of LCSMU members were arrested in December 2002 and were charged with setting up a terrorist group. At the outset, the political involvement of the investigation is undeniable. According to the parents of the arrested, they are tortured, beaten and deprived of legal aid. According to the investigation, Oleg Aleksei’s eye was knocked out during the interrogation — think! - Trying to kill yourself. Such methods of physical impact against arrested persons, the removal of evidence is intended to complete a meagre evidence base of the investigation. The decision to bring the Deputy Chief of Investigations of Statsuk into custody as an accused under the signature of the Deputy Chief of the Statsuk Investigative Office does not provide evidence of the terrorist version contained therein. This document can be read overnight as a spy novel. I quote. Listen! “Sustaining a conspiratory and terrorist group aimed at violently overthrowing the constitutional order and changing state power in Ukraine, the establishment at an initial stage in the territory of its southern areas of the Eastern Soviet Socialist Republic through the partisan war.” So, for that, I quote again, "the expropriation operations where one of the attackers was armed with a metal rod." I would like to draw the attention of the lawyers to the fact that the dates of the expropriation are not numbered as in the months and times of the year. The professionalism of the BSS simply strikes. They failed to dry up the ink under Colonel Steczuk's signature as the Odessa Governor publishes in the press the facts of the terrorist Communists. The pressure of special forces has begun on Somali activists from other regions of Ukraine. All of this is convincingly evidence of the clearly ordered political character of the so-called case. There is another unscrupulous provocation of special services aimed at compromising the comsomol as a leading youth organization actively participating in the “Rescident, Ukraine!".. A new phase of witch hunt will be opened, continuing a shamefully failed, so-called mushroom business. Only now will a tank column of veterans on Kiev, in the image of the BAF, replace the armed metal rods of young people. That would be ridiculous if it weren't so bitter and wild. By going to the United States Fairway of Politics, the regime places the label of terrorists on a youth communist organization that has nothing to do with terrorism in practice or ideology. In this regard, terrorism covers the true terrorism of a bourgeois and criminal State against its people. With regard to the above, the LCSM CD requires immediate release from custody of all detained members of LCSM by changing the measure of restraint to a non-refoulement subscription. The Office of the Procurator-General of Ukraine conducts an investigation into the activities of the HFSF against the arrested members of LCSMO. Enquire all citizens in the case in the presence of independent lawyers. Ensure public control over the investigation of the case with a view to its true objectivity. This statement is considered to be an official parliamentary request. Please provide a record of the mandate of the relevant parliamentary commission to monitor the investigation of the case, and on behalf of the Supreme Council to the Commissioner for Human Rights, Nina Ivanovne Karpacheva, requesting that the investigation of the Odessa case be taken under personal control. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u7	Thank you. People's deputy Bull, Communist faction. Please, dear colleagues, follow the rules, very many willing to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u8	Please pass on the word of Anishtuku Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u9	National MP Anitchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u10	Vladimir Anishtuk, Communist faction, the town of Odessa. Dear colleagues, since there is virtually no parliamentary request to the President in the Supreme Council, I would like to address the Head of State and the Odessites from this rostrum. In December 2002, the Odessa City Council decided to increase tariffs in Odessa from 1 January to 145 per cent for water and water supplies and from 1 March to housing and land maintenance by 230 per cent. Since October 2002, tariffs have been increased by 20 per cent and 25 per cent for passenger transport by taxi. Members of the Odessa Mountains Council learned most of this about the fact of the opening of their session. At the same time, the administrative division of the city and housing and communal reform are being restructured. These decisions are not economically justified and taken in violation of article 48 of the Ukrainian Constitution, article 20 of the Antimonopoly Committee Act, the agreement between the outbreak of the Odessa City Council and the Federation of Trade Unions of the Odessa Region, and, contrary to your statement on television last December at the celebrations of the day of co-ordination in the city of Kiev, I stress that housing and utility tariffs must only be changed in the direction of reduction, not the other way around. Local authorities justify their decisions by lack of funds and difficulties, manipulating figures. But everything looks inconclusive here, too. For example, out of the 77 million bracelets planned for housing, 32 million a year, think about 41 per cent for maintenance of the service and management apparatus. Apparently, in the cafes, for the further enhancement of your authority, Mr. President, among the population, the Odessa authorities are building a tariff policy aimed at exacerbating the socio-political situation in the city, for at least 106 000 Odessa experts estimate that housing and utilities will not be able to pay. The Odessites no longer believe in the promised compensation. This is evidenced by the fact that the city of Odessa has already set up action groups to hold a referendum on mistrust for the city council and its head. The latter's pre-election promises of non-increasing housing and utility tariffs, attracting French investors and so forth, unfortunately, have only proved to be a game for obtaining parliamentary seats. In view of the foregoing, I ask you, Mr. President, to take appropriate measures to address the question of illegal and unjustified increases in housing and utility tariffs in the city of Odessa. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, please consider my statement to be an official parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u11	Vladimir Pehota, European Choice MP. Prepare Karnauhu.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u12	May I have the floor to Matthew's Sergey Anatolyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u13	Sergei Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u14	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Members, distinguished colleagues, I would like to continue the conversation that has now been on the subject that we are all really concerned about: the topic of communal payments. This is indeed a very painful and serious subject. Regrettably, to date, there has been no effective way out of a truly complex situation. But it is very difficult to ask about the 100 per cent payment of housing and utility services, the timeliness of the calculations and the repayment of public debt. Regrettably, the Government is unaware that today the main contributor is the low-income segments of the population that the current tariffs pay in their last breath. But most importantly, who will know the true state of affairs in this area? Indeed, housing and utilities are both the customer and the consumer of their services, and often the controller who determines whether or not to provide these services. As a monopoly, their interest in services is almost zero. The tariff policy is based on a cost-effective method of income-generating, which, in view of the lack of adequate State control, all costs are considered, piled up and laid on the consumer. To date, a clear mechanism has not been developed to take into account the receipt of services. Let me give you just one example. My elector of the city of Mariupol Semizov addressed me. In connection with the systematic disruptions in the hot water supply, he installed an electric heater in the house to at least solve the problem. And this is where the interesting myths began, which in general lead to legislative periphery. The Cabinet of Ministers decree of 619 years since the year 96 states that if hot water is interrupted for more than six hours per day or more than thirty per cent of total time, gas consumption per gas plate is set at 18.3 cubic metres per person instead of 9.8 cubic metres. I mean, it's almost twice as high. But the man installed an electronic heater. We seek clarification from the National Commission for Electricity Regulatory of Ukraine. She said, and said that the availability of power equipment for water heating in the event of a break in central hot water supply was not a reason not to apply the gas consumption standard approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. The question arises: why are voters obliged to pay for services they do not receive, who are to blame for not yet implementing an effective accounting mechanism and paying for the housing and utility services provided to the population. And for how long the disadvantages of paying for housing and utilities will be compensated by those who are making every effort to calculate with the State and by those who are actually owed to us today. If we are talking about paying 100 per cent, and that is indeed the case, the consumer must pay for the services actually received. As long as such regulations are in force that we have faced today, we will never be able to bring this issue in order. I would also like to request my deputy's request to the Commission, the National Electricity Regulatory Commission of Ukraine, to deal with this issue and to put an end to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u15	Mikola Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, prepare Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Allow me, at the request of the electorate, to make a statement to the electorate to President Kuchma. "Dear Leonid Danilovich Kuchma! We, the voters of Hades, turn to you, please come to the town of Hades, as it is not difficult for you, and see how the people live in the Gadites region: the factories are standing, the jobs are not available, the majority of the population are poor in order to get somewhere to work, we have to bribe 300-500 dollars, the villages are poor, the farms are broken, we sell to the left and to the right, we have a stolen condensate from the wells, the authorities are closing their eyes on this. Whoever's in power right now is living well because they're pulling everything out of the poor people, stealing our country at the speed of sound. Can't you see what's going on? Open your lying and hateful eyes to Ukraine. For example, if there is no good host in the family, then the family is poor, and the family is broken up. And our family is Ukraine, and you are the master. Then we come to the conclusion that you are unable to rule a destitute country. So give peace of mind to others, and perhaps something will work out for them. Keep your eyes on the people! Yes, you will say that the people have chosen me. Who knows how he chose you. The Mafia put you up, not the people! Don't hide the people like a blanket, you're fed by a mob that's been sent all over Ukraine. But at the end of the day, be a man, not a slobber. Most people get angry after your TV shows, they all get angry. One of our city’s residents threw a wall watch into his TV. You've filled all of you with your flourishing lies. You're some ruthless and merciless monster. There were 52 million of us, and now 48 million, please tell me, where were the 4 million people? It's you, it's on your conscience, you're tired of their blood. How many of our children have not been born into the world of God? Drug addiction, prostitution, banditry, that's your job, that's your success. Take courage, sacrifice yourself for the people of Ukraine, this is not an adventure, as you say, this soul is yelling at our dispossessed and destitute people. Most of the people of Ukraine hate you. Long live the human opposition. We believe in our victory. Comrade National Deputy Karnauh, we ask that this letter be read in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We ask you very much, we're for you, we're for the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Leonid Danilovich, we don't ask you for black eggs, doctor's sausage and so on. Give us a life worth living, our children. You gave your own children life, don't play with the people, we're not toys. This is not a threat, so we demand it, and we will get our way. A total of 187 signatures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u17	The Puzakov People's Deputy hands over the right of his speech to the people's representative of Alexandria, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! The existence of a deep state-building crisis in Ukraine is evidenced by developments in the town of Chuguyev in the Harkov region in recent years. The efforts of the Chuguyev District Administration to keep the city of Chuguyev under control, the city of regional jurisdiction, the non-interference of events, if not to say permissiveness, by the head of the Harkov Regional Administration, Evgenia Kushnarev, seriously undermines the effectiveness of the city council and all its services. It hampers the development of the city, exacerbates the already difficult problems of creating new jobs today, the development of small businesses, reconstruction, the modernization of housing and utilities, and prevents the Council from working on their solution. In the course of several years, one of the major issues affecting the viability of the entire city has not been addressed. The border of Chugueva is not officially established, although all the necessary work has been done by the city authorities. Kulik, head of the Chuguyev People's Administration, uses rather original methods to disrupt the urban self-government system. Persons elected by the members of the Chuguyev City Council from the majority established in Gorsovo, which led a week ago to the collapse of the last session of the Chuguyev City Council, which was to approve the city's budget for 2003. The work of one of the local authorities in the Kharkiv region was threatened. The Supreme Council of Ukraine should intervene in the situation in the city of Chugueve and in the Chuguev district of Harkov, request the heads of the Harkov district administration of Evgenia Kushnarev, head of the Chuguev district administration of Kulik, to ensure the effective functioning of the local self-government body of the city of Chugueva, the city council, to end the destructive actions of a group of deputies directly under the authority of the heads of administration. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that only the emerging democracy in Ukraine is at stake. We can't let that happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u19	Mikola Rudzkowski, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, is preparing Šibka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u20	I'd like to give the word to Baraniov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u21	National MP Baranowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u22	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Baranowski Dear national MPs, dear voters. I cannot help but welcome all of you with a final introduction to the new year 2003 and to wish you all the good things of the earth. As I was preparing for this performance on the afternoon of the year, I long wondered if I had been here to receive my shepherd Tarza to Parliament because it was so fashionable to now express my wish, to appear in front of the TV cameras with my Tuzik, everyone. Here and Leonid Danilovich made such a noise in Ukraine that two weeks after his New Year’s greeting, the people would be crying and wouldn’t agree on what kind of dog in his grandson and whom all those fairy tales under the tree were told by Kuchma, the boy and the Barbossa, or by people who had nothing to meet on the table for New Year’s Eve. Especially after a promising statement by the guarantor of the Constitution that in Ukraine, he said, all the political conditions were finally created to improve the economic life of every Ukrainian. Simply put, the well-being of each of us." [[end of quote]] And what special conditions did Leonid Danilovich give us? It turns out that the President finally built himself a nest over the fireplace and stood over everyone. He made it clear that his efforts, Kuchma claims, have finally created a transparent and understandable system of power for each of us, you have chosen deputies, the MPs have formed the majority, most have formed a government. First. In many cases, it was not the citizens who chose, and in many cases, the majority of them were appointed as national deputies in the majority districts. It's different. It wasn't Parliament that was formed, and the President's Office for Personal Participation of the Head of State himself has, so-called, mostly. Third. By no means did the obedient majority form a government. Victor Janukovic, this is clearly the President's candidacy. And in the parliamentary coulaires, we know very well how the hands were twisted by those who were forced to run under the Bank's standards just to give up their votes for the President's position. Only a month passed, and the head of state, without blinking his eye, gave up his yesterday stand and with such powers the parliamentary majority he had born. Kuchma said under the tree, he said, for everything now they are responsible: Yanukovich and his Cabinet of Ministers, Lithuania, with a majority in the Supreme Council. In other words, Kumcha said to people on New Year's Eve, "If they can't do anything, then you're all guilty, because you've chosen a Parliament that has formed such a majority that has chosen such a government, and I, head of state, side, I'm not involved in all of this, I'm above all, and witnesses I have here a grandson under a tree and a family puppy. So my first greetings this year are to Prime Minister Janukovich of Ukraine and most of them." Ladies and gentlemen, you've been abandoned, so be ready, the stones, as you can see, will burn down any authority. This is evidenced by the fact that everything is going to be cut short today. The money is needed, but this money needs to be reduced by the cost of the power structures, where more than 9 billion money is channeled here -- it's just a huge sum, that's specifically, I'd say, a material confirmation of what we're building a repressive state. You can't go around the DuSue, which today, you know, will produce a mysterious decree under the heading "secretly" and, in fact, all of this is done to improve the benefits of the President himself, the head of the administration, the immediate environment. One word. Government officials in the hungry state. So as not to be the loud end of the speech by a message from Ivano-Frankish. On Christmas night the city’s utilities were lifted up in distress, and the snow had to be cleaned immediately on the way to the hospital. The thing is, it's that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u23	I'm asking you to finish. I'll turn off the microphone, I promise.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u24	I'm done. The thing is, that's the way Jeep was running with First Lady Kuchma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u25	Turn off the microphone, please. National Deputy Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u26	Please pass the word Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u27	Please, Valentina Petrovna Seminouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u28	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. A statement by the parliamentary faction. "Last time, President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine signed a series of decrees that have been defined as non-publishable, but which seriously undermine the legislative base of the state, create an incomprehensible hybrid of the fiscal and business state structure, distort the mechanism defined by legislation, privatization. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine believes that Ukraine’s special danger is the President’s decree of December 17, 2002 on the status of State administration. After him, the so - called Dusia is defined as a special state body and subordinated to the President. So far, there have been central executive bodies with special status such as the State Tax Administration, the BSS, and others. Today, the President has crossed an unconstitutional hybrid from a state institution and a state enterprise and has given it unconstitutional powers. The ESS can create businesses, institutions and organizations, alienate and sell houses and premises, get funding from the State Budget, and as businesses do business. It is also up to us to control ourselves, to exercise internal control over the fullness of the budget and its exhaustion. So it assumes the function of the Accounting Chamber. The US has been granted the right to sell state property that makes the biggest profit to the budget, which deprives the state of a substantial amount of money to raise pensions and wages for its citizens. The creation of State administration to subordinate its vast network of state-owned medical and health management enterprises, and now the right to seize state property from other authorities, violates the fundamental position of the Constitution of Article 116, under which the administration of state-owned property is carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers. The President violated article 6 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which gives him the right to create only advisory, advisory, and other auxiliary bodies and services, to which the Government’s administration of matters cannot be applied in any way. Thus, the DSS is now placed over the government. The President went beyond his authority by breaking articles 1, 5, 6, 8, 19, 92, 106, 108, 116 of the Ukrainian Constitution. The decree also contradicts the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Property, which provides for the activities of the Supreme Council. Such violations have been committed in the Decree of 22 October 2002 on the strengthening of the monitoring of the implementation of the President's acts on the implementation of State policy in the field of military and technical cooperation, in which the functions of the Constitutional Authority are the National Security Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u29	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u30	I'll ask you, there's the next Frost, and I'll take the right time for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u31	No, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u32	Alexander Aleksandrovich, I'm sorry, I had to press the button instead of him. I beg you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Where the functions of the constitutional body, the National Security and Defence Council, are handed over to the advisory body, the President's Administration. And in the December 27, 2002, Decree on Measures for the Control of Alcohol and Tobacco Production and Circumstances, where it's actually a start -- look at the privatization of liquor and alcohol.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u33	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u34	When the President announced the transparency of the activities of the authorities, in fact, the issuance of these decrees under the heading "Publication Is Not Suitable" says that this is an appropriate contract. I'm done, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u35	National Deputy School, please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u36	The Socialist Party and the parliamentary faction ask the MPs to sign the constitutional application that we have prepared, and the commissions, the parliamentary committees, to give a proper assessment of those relevant decrees, and to conclude on that point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u37	Andrew Schlell, please, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask you to pass on the word to Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u39	Please, Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! Dear listeners to the Supreme Council! I would like to pay attention to three questions. The first question is that young opposition political forces continue to be systematically destroyed. This is true of 18 boys who are members of the political forces who are now in prison. Now it's the same thing for the young Communist Party. This has become a system. And I'm asking all opposition parties, factions without exception, we have to look at this issue separately and take extraordinary steps to ensure that young people who are actually in a civil position are released from custody. It's categorical. If we've missed the UNSO representatives, we'll now miss the Communist Party representatives, young people, and we'll be able to do so on a scale that we can't contain it anymore. The second question that I would like to provide is that our faction has submitted changes and additions to the state budget, which are linked to an increase of 50 percent in the financing of the wages of all educational, health, and cultural workers. And I want the people who are listening to the radio right now to listen to the Supreme Council to know that in a few minutes, the agenda will be set for the agenda of these changes in the budget, and three projects will be government projects that are neither changing nor positive at all; the factions of the SDPU(o) and the faction that I lead. I ask, first of all, the speaker of Parliament to announce how the factions vote in favour of the inclusion of these bills in the agenda, and I want people to know that voting on these laws, which increases by 50 percent the wages of the most impoverished workers in our budgetary spheres. The roll-call vote will be printed in millions of copies and transferred to the districts, so you can just count on when you vote. And the third message. I want both the people and the people's deputies to know that today in the Supreme Council there will be an extraordinary law on the creation of private pension funds. I would like to emphasize once again, private pension funds. New trusts are being created, and pension costs will be transferred to offshore areas, as was the case with trust funds. Introducing this bill, please pay attention, government! And we're going to be offered this bill by a member of the SDPU faction, now Secretary of Social Protection of Papiev! I think these guys are running out of energy, not privatizing powerful businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u41	Yes, please finish!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u42	And now we've made it to the pension fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u43	Thank you. National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u44	I'm asking everyone who's listening to the radio to tell people right now not to get caught on these hooks.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u45	National MP Spivacuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine You don't? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u46	Please pass the word to John Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u47	Please, Ivan Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize that there are so many of us socialists today, but we don't blame ourselves for going to work, and that's how it sometimes turns out that automation gives us that opportunity. I want to carry out the commission of one of my constituents, namely the Chernobylist Vladimir Kandul of the city of Horov Poltav district, who has requested that I announce in this sessionary room his wish to the President of Ukraine. Vladimir Kandul knows that the President of Ukraine moved to the fourth floor to create comfortable conditions and that the repairs and equipment were made at the expense of Chernobyl. In this connection, he asks the President of Ukraine why he, the Chernobylite, had suffered in 1986 during a Chernobyl disaster in which the guilty state and the heir of our country, has been asked why he has not been paid for more than six months not to pay the Chernobyls. He's poor, he's unsecured, he doesn't have the ability to improve his status and to recover, and the state refuses him in the first place. In this connection, he asks the President, "Why do I need your greetings for New Year's Eve, if you personally condemn me to poverty, if you accuse me of disease, why should I accept your greetings?" And he naturally says, "I return your greetings and ask that you return what you owe me as a guarantor of the Constitution and as a person responsible for everything in this state." I actually fulfilled Vladimir Kandov's wish, but I think that Vladimir Kandov is joined by all the black people of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u49	Mikola Kravchenko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u50	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to this point: yesterday, thank you for your support, you supported the MP's request to the Prime Minister for reform of the coal sector, which is being undertaken alone by Minister Mintopenergo Ermilov. I want to tell you about the reaction to the decision. This is when the Ministry of the Coal Industry is involved. When the coal industry as a whole is virtually reorganised, a state-owned company has been set up instead of state-owned holding companies, which are included in the mine on unclear criteria. For example, in the village of Davogle, the Korochenko mine was not part of the public company for reasons that were not clear. So the criteria are not indicated. Second. That, in this situation, the town of Djerzinskugol, Enakiyovo Artemoul and Gorlovka are territorially united. You understand that there is no territorial solution to the social problems that exist in the industry so far. We are having a major social impact today, and the Supreme Council on this issue has announced that mines will be shut down. This restructuring will lead to an even more permanent collapse of the social sphere of the cities mentioned above. Of the economic consequences, the following is dangerous: if we today, in the context of the Bankruptcy Act, allow the rights of the mine's legal entity, which today are bankrupt, the State company will eventually be completely debunked because of the fact that one mine is bankrupt. Therefore, distinguished colleagues, I appeal to you for your support, and I urge you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, to consider this an official request to the Minister of the Ermilov Fuel and Energy Complex. Please explain the principles and economic consequences and the social decision it has taken. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u51	Dear colleagues! Time's up. With regard to the questions that have been raised in your speeches. I think we're going to form this as a parliamentary request and commission to the relevant authorities. With regard to the speech of our colleague of the national deputy Poliitt, I would like to inform you that yesterday we had a conversation with the head of the committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov, and was sent to Odessa yesterday to study this situation by a member of the committee of Simonov. And he will report on the situation. Dear fellow Members, we are moving on to a schedule of meetings. Today we were to consider three bills to amend the State Budget Act. For this reason, there is a position and a proposal for a budget committee. Peter Alexiovich, please. Porcelain Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u52	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, today is indeed a day's work to discuss amendments to the State Budget Act 2003. The committee did not make a decision on this matter. Today there will be a committee meeting to consider with the invitation of the drafters. The Committee and the Supreme Council do not yet have clear calculations on the resources required in connection with the adoption of the Minimum Wages Act. And on these grounds, we ask today to withdraw the amendment to the 2003 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine. The Budget Committee will now propose to set up a working group with the participation of drafters, members of the budget committee, representatives of the government in order to make an attempt during the first week of the next session to prepare a compromise option that is likely to take place in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, has the committee's proposal been understood? Moreover, there have been a number of projects on changes to the 2003 budget by the national deputies. I'm thinking about how we would have studied in a complex way by creating a working group with the participation of drafters. And then bring out a document that would have support in the session room. Is there no objection? For what reason? Shufrich is a national MP. Then there's Rudzkowski. Yeah, I can see that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u54	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. For the stenographer. I want our fellow Ukrainian national deputies and the public to know that the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not been carried out. And yesterday there was no meeting of the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council on draft amendments to the 2003 State Budget. The reason is very banal, the head of the budget committee came to Ukraine only yesterday evening. Were there no first deputies and there was no opportunity to hold a committee meeting? People can't wait, and we understand the desire for a salary to be raised in November 2004. That's not gonna happen. Whatever it is, we're going to pay teachers, medical and cultural workers this year. If it's necessary, we can flip the dome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u55	Mikola Rudzkowski, then Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u56	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I want to support the head of the powdery committee that we don't have to rush into the drafts because they're completely changing the budget. We cannot make decisions about such radical changes in the south. In fact, we need to increase social costs, we're going to support it, but today it's practically impossible to determine. Otherwise, the government will treat the Supreme Council with disrespect. And I want to say one more phrase. Deputy Schufrich said they'd flip the dome. And where were they when they called off the 52 billion budget and cut the social cost by 2 billion? We need to be objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u57	Shufrich's replica. I'm asking you not to name your last name. We're getting involved in the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u58	Mr. Rudzkowski, I don't think you have the right to make such statements because you voted in favour of a shameful budget for Ukraine, and that can only be said by representatives of the Communist faction and the united Social Democrats who did not support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u59	Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko, a replica, please. Please don't call it a name, don't call it factions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u60	Stanislaw Gurenko, a faction of Communists. Thank you, National Deputy Sufrich, for the opportunity to express our position. I just wanted to say one thing. The Communist faction spoke and spoke with other opposition factions to actually raise the budget. But the faction of communists has now been said not to vote in favour of the State budget for exactly one reason: the state budget is empty and all proposals by the Communist faction aimed at filling the budget on account of the real monopoly on alcohol and vodka, based on the real monopoly on tobacco products, because of the fact that they have to deal with privatization. And now the offer of an honorary colleague is aimed at redistribution. [[I don't call names.]] By the way, it's 750 million to remove from the fuel-energy complex that's already going on. Is that an approach? And our television show, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I wanted to draw your attention, gives you one plus one on all of Ukraine yesterday. If national MPs vote only, teachers get 50 percent, doctors get 50 percent. There's nothing behind it but populism. We need to look at projects that provide sources of budgeting. They are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u61	Thank you. Julia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues! That's what we're talking about. They're only authors. Please. Please. You've already done your part, mate. Now there'll be a line. I announced Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u62	Dear colleagues! I'm asking for your attention. Dear friends! The point is that the three bills that have been tabled can be discussed, but they are done professionally: both the government and the project that our faction has submitted. There's nothing quite populist about it. And a request. We have drafts. We now have to vote on any one of them as a basis, and then consider the proposal of Prashenko and work on that bill that will be voted on as a basis. I'm sure if we don't vote today, we'll have this topic back in practice for the next session and people will lose their wages. And once again, once again, when the State Tax Administration for this year has a 100 percent wage increase, for teachers and doctors, everything remained the way it was two years ago. So I ask you not to waste your time and consider it urgently now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u63	Thank you. Peter Poshenko, then Asadchev. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u64	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I provide evidence that I was discharged yesterday from a hospital diagnosed with diabetes mellitus, where I received insulin. It's for the help of a fellow Shufrich. The committee was meeting yesterday, there was a working group, because there was no quorum on the committee, under the chairmanship of the first deputy, where appropriate decisions were taken on this matter. And the committee was very clear on these issues. And with regard to the quality of drafting the bill, the bill that was prepared by the faction of the SDPU(o) contains the value added tax figure, if you look at where the total fund is 14 billion and at the same time 13 billion. So 1 billion is a purely arithmetical error that the faction of the SDR in its variant tried to hide. This is a populist option and this is the quality of drafting the bills that we're trying to get us to vote for them today. Correct arithmetic errors first!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u65	National Deputy Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear friends, yesterday was not a budget committee, but there were deputies and all who wanted to work, because we are now working in plenary and there is a procedure for the work of the Supreme Council - the Rules. But yesterday, under the chairmanship of the first deputy, there was a meeting, and all the deputies were. What's the big deal? The budget changes almost by more than 5 percent, with all local budgets changing — 626 budgets! That's what we have to do. There were representatives of the Ministry of Finance yesterday. These things don't happen in one day. I'm going to give you another example, to Julia Volodymyrna. You say you're suggesting that the State Administration take 400 million of these off. That's very good, that's normal, we suggested this, by the way, when the budget was being made, but from whom? There's not only the government that serves the President, there's the health care department, there's the Expo Center, there's also the schools, and there's... It's an academy. Who you're proposing from, you're not writing it. The same is true of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, but there are fire forces and internal forces. That's where you have to look, you know, you have to figure it out, so it takes time. And we ask for this time to be given, we will do it with the Ministry of Finance and we will do a consistent one project, and so no project will just be rejected, it will have no chance of going through. What, is this gonna be better? So we ask for our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u67	People's MP Chubarov, Martinyuk later. Dear colleagues, we're about to vote. Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u68	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! To the argument that we can't now consider and move whether there is such an argument that, apart from the fact that there are factions that propose a certain approach to the budget or are individual deputies, the authors of these projects are still the profiling committees. And you remember, when we were preparing different budget options, we were very careful to consider proposals that had a bearing on one or the other spheres of activity of the Ukrainian society. And today, especially the authors, I would ask you not to insist. You want us not to look at this budget, so that we don't avoid voting the way you want us to. I don't think that's gonna happen. And we need to support the proposal of Dusty and the committee from the budget, and we need to move this issue forward. In addition, we must consider these suggestions on the committees; we have received them only today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u69	Thank you. Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u70	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I think we're wasting time with you. Each of us is well aware of the position of the Rules. To those who do not know him, I remind them and let them see article 6.5. One that says that any bill, any bill, and even more the bill on the state budget, the Supreme Council has the right to discuss only when there is a submission, when there is a conclusion, when there is a proposal for a profile committee. What are some pushing us to do? So that we can now consider such an important bill without having the opinion of a profiling committee. It's nonsense at all. And I think we should stop any discussion and ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, by referring to the article of the Rules that I said to stop this discussion and discuss the following issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u71	Thank you for your kind offer. Timoshenko's replica and all. I'm begging everyone!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u72	I want to speak to Valery Assadchev. If you're quoting our bill, it's safe to do it, because after the State Administration, it's not just 400, it's 168 million dollars, and there's more than half, and ten times more than three years ago, that service was financed. And that's why you don't have to say things like that, because it's only 309 million. has been allocated to the State Administration. You can't take 400 off, you've washed the line there. As for not voting now, I have a request for you: we have an order of the day. The agenda is to put in place, include these bills and vote for it. I ask you now to put to the vote, to announce to you as the Head of the Supreme Council who, who voted in favour of inclusion, who did not, and then, if he does not vote, to transfer it to the Budget Committee. But I would like to vote in favour of the inclusion and consideration of these projects.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u73	Dear national MPs, distinguished national MPs, you've heard the arguments, we've exchanged thoughts. We agreed that we would consider the possibility of including and discussing the decision-making of the budget committee. There is no conclusion from the Committee on Budgets. Then there is no need for these three bills to be put to the vote. We're forming a working group, and the work is proposed by the government on the composition of the working group, from the Supreme Council and all those who want to join the work of the budget committee, in the work of this group, and then we're going to look at it. Is there no objection? What? None. Thank you. We've got respectable colleagues. Dear colleagues, what? I'm reading you the Constitution, dear colleagues. The Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are carrying out legislative work, preparing and reviewing issues related to the powers of the Supreme Council. This is the Constitution, and before that is the Rules. Let us not break both the Constitution and the Supreme Council regulations. Dear colleagues, we had a deal. Well, you've already received a replica. Shufrich, please. Well, the line was called a nickname.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u74	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Regarding the error that Mr. Dustenko referred to, which they saw in Appendix One: this is basically an editorial error in sum figures, all figures are normal and congruent. Let God make this our only mistake in preparing the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us now proceed on schedule. We were due to include two more bills in the agenda today. This is Bill 2292 and 2287 and 2287-1. I propose to vote for their inclusion and discussion in the package, these two bills. If you don't mind, I'm voting for inclusion in the agenda and discussion. Just a minute. I'm betting on the vote, please note: for inclusion in the agenda and discussion of draft law number 2292, this is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on export-import control of disks for laser reading systems. I'll bet on the vote for inclusion. Please vote. [[11:10:40]] For 121 The decision is not taken. Out of procedure, please. Who's out of the procedure? Mikola Kravchenko, please. People's deputies please take their seats. We must vote in favour of the inclusion of important issues. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u76	Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, I think it's just a tactical mistake. I propose to vote separately on each bill. They do.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u77	So you did. You voted separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u78	No, we voted together.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u79	No, no, we voted separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u80	Then I apologize.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u81	Since I don't get it, I'm going to vote again. Dear colleagues, calm down! We're all interested in getting all the bills included. Interested? Let's vote. Pavlovski’s national deputy from the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! We cannot unite things that are not united. Each bill must be considered separately. The changes and additions to the compact discs voted 121 votes, there's no hope of including it. In all other laws he separates "about amnesty" and votes separately. Nothing should be united. It's a violation of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u83	Mikhailo Antonovich! Let's be realistic and look at things real. Today, one part of the hall is interested in the inclusion of bill 2292, and the other part of the hall is interested in the inclusion of the following bill. If we go this way, you insist, none will be included. Are you interested? Please. We voted 2292 because it was unclear whether it was two, or whether it was individual. I'm voting again on the inclusion in the agenda and today's debate on Bill 2292. Draft law on amending some Ukrainian legislation on export control and import of disks for laser reading systems. Please vote. [[11:13:04]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. I'll bet on the vote for inclusion. Bondarenko for reasons of vote. By factions, please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u84	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Bondarenko, "Our Ukraine", city of Kiev. You remember who was in the last call in this room, several times there was an attempt to draft a bill that would ban the release of laser discs in Ukraine from rejecting us, our economy and our future for future development only in areas that are not interesting in terms of scientific and technological progress. We stood up for the right to release disks in Ukraine. Today, an attempt has been made to bring forward a bill that would prohibit exports from Ukraine of CDs released in Ukraine, but others licensed abroad in other countries. I mean, we haven't deliberately missed a bill with you today, which is a hindrance to the scientific and technical development of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u85	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, here I'd like to say that no one is going to go through anything here in the Supreme Council, we're just going to look at it, and the Supreme Council is going to be determined. I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda and the consideration of Bills 2287, 2287-1, the draft Amnesty Act. People's deputies will be appointed, please. [[11:14:50]] For 322 For 322. Decision taken. A draft Amnesty Law is being announced. Please report to the head of the Department of State of Ukraine on the execution of the sentences of Ptašinsky Aleksandar Borisovich. Please. How long do you need? Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u86	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Your consideration is proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to draft the Amnesty Act. The currentity of this law is, first, based on the humane principles of our state, and that is why amnesty must be extended primarily to the most vulnerable and socially vulnerable categories of convicts, that is, underage, elderly, pregnant women, war veterans, disabled people, etc. Second of all, considering the criminality of the convicted and the judicial practice. As a result, it is suggested that amnesty be applied to such a category of convicts who do not pose a significant social danger. The bill is intended to release 4,000 people from prison and shorten the sentence to 5,000. The estimates of the possible number of amnesty convicts were based on the fact that a large number of persons who committed offences that had been decriminalized or who had been reduced sentences in accordance with the requirements of the final and transitional provisions of the Code had been released. In addition, last year, the Department met the requirements of the Supreme Court Plenary ruling of April 26 on the disclosure of conditional release from sentence, resulting in the early release of more than 7,000 persons who had proved their correction. At the same time, it is considered inappropriate to apply this year’s amnesty to those who committed particularly serious crimes, such as: banditry, robbery, robbery, rape, murder, and convicted persons who committed crimes during punishment or probation, have repeatedly been convicted of committing serious crimes, to which amnesty or pardon has been applied in recent years. The proposed bill clearly defines persons who do not have amnesty, including Article 7 of the Act, which takes into account restrictions on persons convicted under the Criminal Code of 1960 and the Criminal Code of 2001. The bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is in line with the Supreme Court, the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Justice, the Security Service and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. He takes into account many years of amnesty practice in Ukraine. The draft law provides for the obligation of local executives to ensure timely counting of persons released for amnesty, their household and employment, including minors. Heading to institutions for social protection of people with disabilities and disabled older persons who do not have relatives who could take them for their maintenance. The adoption of the Act does not provide for additional costs of state spending, it will allow for better social and health conditions for the detention of the convicted. In view of what we believe, the bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers is legally and socially sound and can be recommended to you for adoption in the first reading. Proposals and comments to the bill of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which were made by members of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy on Law Enforcement, can be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. Please support the bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u87	Please sign up for the questions. Lighten up. Vitaly Yakovich. The next gmira.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u88	Quickly, the Socialist Party. Please pass the word Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u89	Lucenko's microphone. Please turn on Lucenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u90	Dear reporter, please explain to me the position of the government, which among the crimes that are not amnesty, has led to a serious crime, not a serious, specific crime against the regime: mass-duty organization, mass movement organization, congestion and so on. Or you. Whether I have correctly understood that this bill is directed essentially against the opposition and all the constitutional methods it has so far used to combat the ruling regime of Kuchma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u91	Thank you for asking. The bill defines the criminal code and defines the gravity of crimes. The definition of serious crimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u92	Gmira Sergey Petrovich. The next Kosovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u93	Please pass on the word of Sinchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u94	Please turn on the synchenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u95	Dear reporter! Please state from what point of time has become a serious crime, such as the insurrection to commit acts that threaten public order or opposition to the authorities, the law enforcement officer, members of public formation from public order, the state border, or the military. In general, I don't remember the entire period of my parliamentary activity for nine years, we're already a few amnesty laws to define, well, as a deliberate list of articles that limit freedom of speech, to meetings, to rallying, and so on. What criteria did you come out of, including in the 7th article, these crimes?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u96	Thank you for asking, I would like to bring you back to the debate and you have approved the Criminal Code of our State in this session hall, and there have been definitions of a serious crime. This is the first time. Secondly, the proposed project is not written, there is, I can read you, banditry, murder and so on. There's nothing else on the list.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u97	Hair, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u98	Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Alexander Borisovich, we do not really consider this law for the first time. I am constantly voting for the adoption of such a law, but I am interested in it. Among those who will be subjected to amnesty are very many young people, including students. Is your department concerned with social adaptation after the amnesty of these people who will be released? And then there's another one. You have a very clear answer to the previous questions, which are serious crimes, and you answer correctly. But is there any way to find out here that the courts are very often bringing about a serious crime that is not really a serious crime? Is there any way to resolve this issue, at least because of today’s law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u99	Thank you for asking. I'll start with the last of your questions. Well, it's absolutely impossible to influence a court's decision by a state department that executes a court decision. You might say so, but it's not the right decision or the right position. With regard to the first question, that is a very valid and important question. If you've listened very carefully, we're together, there's a structure in the State Department called criminal-executive inspection. They, along with the local authorities, will care for these amnesty - free people.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u100	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u101	Dear reporter, well, the usual thing is that this law, you have very well stated that it can amnesty 4,000 people and 5 people, there, reduce the measure of action. And here I would like to point out to you that, you know, in places of deprivation of liberty, these amnestys are called "amnestys for pregnant Chernobyl exterminators who participated in the Afghan war," which is, in fact, no one behind this amnesty, I want you to know that and know the radios, from places of deprivation will not be released. It's in a land where they plant easily, and they don't release almost never, and you know it and you understand it. And you also know that this law was prepared as an alternative to the law that I proposed, and you also understand it perfectly. Here's a question for you. Is it conscious that this amnesty law is merely formally called an amnesty? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u102	Thank you for asking, an interesting question. Last but not least, the Amnesty Act, which he passed to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Cabinet of Ministers, was being prepared in June of that year. You, as I know, passed your bill a little later, a little later, yes. So there can't be a coincidence anymore, and there's no confrontation here, in my opinion. It's different. I'll tell you frankly and from a professional point of view, I don't think they're saying it's a place of deprivation. And why? Because it was only in 2001 that 29,000 were released from prison. And only the twelve amnestys that have been adopted by law since 97 have more than 160,000 been released. persons. So maybe some units will say, well that doesn't come up, I think we need to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u103	Once again, tell us how much is proposed to be released from the cities of disqualification under this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u104	11,000.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u105	All right, have a seat, please. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u106	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u107	For the purpose of the report, the word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, School Andriy Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, I would like to say a few words about the law on amnesty that is proposed. Well, I want to emphasize that amnesty is an act of humanism on the part of the state to a certain circle of its citizens. But the law on amnesty must be in line with the criminal code, which provides the order and basis for applying amnesty, as defined in the corresponding articles - 85, 86. They are included in the corresponding chapter of legislation — exemption from punishment and punishment. Thus, amnesty in its essence is a variety of exemptions from punishment. Its application consists of several stages: the determination by law of the circle of persons who are subject to amnesty and their personal application by the court to a particular person. In practice, the Amnesty Law was prepared by the Department of Execution. Its positions were primarily based on internal, statistical data on the total number of convicted persons and the number of places in the correctional and labour institutions to be released. Individual norms did not contain any logical basis or partially contradicted the Constitution and the Criminal Code. The new law should be based on the basic principles and concepts of the Criminal Code in 2001, and I would like to stress that it is on the new legislation that it is logical to continue, to take into account the fundamental changes in its standards. Its main tasks must be. Establishing a well - founded system of criteria for determining the circle of persons to whom amnesty should apply or not apply and restrictions on its application. The project should also strengthen the role of judges in the application of amnesty, which should be based on a clearly defined legal procedure and limitations on the impact of the Department of the execution of sentences on this process to reasonable limits. In the project, I want to emphasize this, the draft law takes into account the principles of change in the meaning of "serious crime." There were very good questions about this. In the past, according to the 1960 Criminal Code, only explicit crimes were found to be serious. In line with previous amnesty laws, there were substantial restrictions on its application to those who committed serious crimes, which meant only deliberate crimes. In the 2001 Criminal Code, the severity is not two but four degrees. Of course, the representative of the Department of State is not listening here, but I am addressing you, your honorary colleagues, not two degrees, but four degrees, and it depends only on the degree of punishment, but also on the intention. Hence, the bill proposes that amnesty be applied to persons who commit serious crimes or especially serious crimes unintentionally, i.e. out of recklessness under the same criteria as those who commit crimes of small or medium severity. At the same time, the bill contains substantial restrictions on the application of amnesty to persons who have committed serious crimes intentionally and to persons who have committed deliberate, particularly serious crimes, the application of amnesty is not included in the bill at all. In doing so, the bill does not contain restrictions on the application of the amnesty contained in the laws of previous years. In the past, amnesty was not subject to amnesty for those who were wickedly violating the regime during the period of punishment. You know what it is, well, who doesn't know -- it's very good, but you can imagine what a regime violation is: making tea at a certain time or not making a bed -- it's a serious violation. This has given correctional and labour administrations extensive opportunities for abuses and violations of the rights of convicted persons. There could be no prior amnesty, and persons convicted of articles such as group violations of public order, opposition to the police, tax evasion, illegal possession of firearms, that is, crimes that were not considered to be serious or old, I would like to stress, and not under the new Criminal Code. However, correctional and labour institutions were penalized by individuals who were very, very reluctant to release. The proposed bill substantially shortens the list of persons to whom amnesty cannot be applied. This is particularly true of those who committed deliberate, especially serious crimes, as well as those who had previously been released in one form or another from criminal liability or punishment and committed new deliberate crimes. All other restrictions are artificial and are not based on the principles laid down in the Constitution of Ukraine and the general provisions of the Criminal Code. The implementation of the Amnesty Act relies solely on the courts. The proposed draft sets out in more detail than in previous years the procedure for their application by the courts, not only by the imposition of penalties, but by the application of the person who submits its guardian or legal representative to the law. At the same time, the prosecutor’s participation is mandatory, and the court’s consideration of the application of a defence amnesty and the legal representative of a person is foreseen. Which is completely consistent with article 116-1 of the Ukrainian KPC. I would like to point out that more youths are being held in prisons in Ukraine than are serving in the army. Realize that Ukraine is a repressive state, having a population of half as many as the population of Germany, has 250,000 prisoners. In Germany, it's 90,000. I don't want to give other examples, but understand, this law is a humane law without any other reading. He is neither for anyone nor for anyone, he is for those whose rights are violated in places of deprivation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u109	Please sign up for questions. Lighten up. Vitaly Jakovic, please. Next Marcus.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u110	Please pass the word to Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u111	Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u112	Dear reporter! Please confirm once again whether this law does not limit the rights of those who today, the possibility, more faithfully, does not limit those who have received sentences of political imprisonment today. This is about political prisoners, both Ivanchenka and sixteen new political prisoners, who were arrested after the events on March 9 for taking part in the anti - presidential protest.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u113	Thank you so much for asking. Of course, this law does not limit anyone’s rights, including theirs, because, I would stress, the new Criminal Code, I have already said, has twice the severity of the crime. And actually, these serious crimes that were committed unintentionally, and they were all committed unintentionally, because the intention was not clearly proved. They're all subject to this Amnesty Act if it's accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u114	Mary Marcus, next John.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u115	Dear reporter, I will vote in favour of the bill that you have proposed, because it is very relevant, aimed at announcing amnesty, primarily for the most socially vulnerable. I think that this bill should be adopted as a basis for the first reading, taking into account the comments made on it at the committee meeting, and I think they will be made now and in the session room. The bill proposed by Kabmin is 2287 more reactive because in article 7 of this bill, I believe that in this part it is contrary to the Ukrainian law on the application of amnesty in Ukraine and the Constitution. In addition, the non-application of amnesty includes a crime warehouse project that, in fact, as you noted, neither in the old Ukrainian Criminal Code nor in the new are difficult. And for them, amnesty should be applied to these parts of the crime. I think that this paragraph of "it" in the text of the Kabmin bill is directed exactly to the opposition forces, and it's taken into account the events that took place in September that took place in October to intimidate people who essentially want to express their views. In accordance with the article of the Constitution, everyone is guaranteed the right to freedom of thought, speech, freedom of expression, and belief. So it's directed at this particular article, because those crimes that are listed in Article 7 are such that, formally, many people are being deceived, that they seem to have committed some form of crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u116	Thank you, Reverend Mary Andriyevna. Of course, I completely agree with you, but I don't agree that it's more responsive. This law is not reactive at all, and it is reactive in fact, since I am completely violating all possible standards. It's an "e" point. It's just not for discussion. So I thank you for your support, and I hope that, of course, all the proposals that will be made will be included in the law after the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u117	Ivanov Sergey Anatolyovich. Next Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u118	Dear Mr. Andrey! I think we're going to adopt this law. Nevertheless, every year when we adopt the Amnesty Act, the same question arises to me: "Who has counted what harm does an amnesty act cause to the State?" When we talk about what needs to be accepted, we're guided by acts of humanity, and I think we're a little bit of a guilty soul here. We probably don't have enough food, we don't have enough content. However, what kind of money does anyone have to disclose to the offender, conduct an inquiry, preliminary investigation, trial, and eventually release in three months? Do you have a vision on this issue, should we spend every year amnesty, should we go back to her every year to get the criminals to walk free again tomorrow?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u119	Thank you, Mr. Sergei, for a good question. I just want to point out that, you know, if the conditions of detention were worthy and worthy, they would be able to compensate by their work in prisons for the costs incurred in their arrest, investigation, and so forth, you know very well what the state of the prisoners and places of deprivation of liberty is. And what I want to point out is that the other part of the question of whether it takes every year, I don't know, I think we just have to adopt an amnesty law, and not every year we're going to have to adopt it in this room, but just clearly write out which articles are amnesty and under what circumstances. So we can let people go.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u120	You can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u121	So we can let people go. Well, in principle, it's done theoretically around the world. The Amnesty Law. Later, it is applied on a fixed date, and we know when and so on. But it's a question of the state that we want to see Ukraine, Ukraine even as it is now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u122	Things are changing, you can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u123	And the next. I hope that if we were to plant less and keep better, maybe then we could talk about amnesty once every 10 years, for 5 years or some other.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u124	Yavrovsky Vladimir Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u125	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky Districts, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka Block "Our Ukraine". Dear colleague Andrew! When you talk about this question, you feel like we exist a little bit in such an irrational world, because some part of society that seems to feel free would like to sit there. And some of the people sitting there might have been out there for a long time. That's my question. I will normally vote for your bill. I am very happy that Ukrainian society will again be filled by 11,000 of its citizens. There will be a great deal of release in our prisons. The way you look at it. I think it's very original. After all, for a while, not to fill all of these 11,000, but to leave the cameras a little bit, to do some kind of capital repair, to really make them better, maybe to set up TVs, because I have a feeling that the organ will soon be the upper elite part of our society in our prisons, which will immediately become noble and well-organized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u126	Thank you for asking, Mr. Yavorowski. I can only tell you one thing under my law, and it will be a little bit. The amount proposed by me and the team of the law will be slightly over 11,000, so this quota can be maintained accordingly. I just want to say. That TVs are only installed in the insulators, and in places where they're not allowed to be TVs, it's not supposed to be a phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u127	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Time's up. The account. First Deputy Head of the Legislative Security Committee, Bandurka Alexander Markovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u128	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, the honourable presiding officer. Amnesty we conduct annually and the basis for such a decision of Parliament lies, first of all, not that it is badly maintained or well, and this is an act of humanism, indeed, to individual categories of Ukrainian citizens who have violated the law, but which, if released, will not be socially dangerous. We're freeing a few thousand a year, it's between 15 and 30,000, and it doesn't affect the criminogenic environment in the state. If the brothers were released in 2000 after amnesty, only 0.1 percent of those in 2001 committed new crimes. A higher percentage of those who are free or who are in prison are certainly doing so. Therefore, the Committee on Law Enforcement, when considering two bills, and the one put forward by the Cabinet of Ministers first, and Andria Shkila, our colleague, said that the issue of the draft Law on Amnesty should be included in the agenda of the day. We had a lot of discussions about the merits, the positives and the negatives of both bills, and they certainly do. The committee expressed its preference by two votes in favour of recommending a draft for Andrew School’s consideration. In my opinion, more developed and more, we will talk about the professional bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, as reported here by the acting head of the State Department of Ukraine on the execution of the sentences of Ptashinski Alexander Borisovich. But I would point out that if we went out on Thursday to vote with two bills, none of them would be accepted. Because I know the thought that they shared. Some feel that the rigid, the overly soft one, someone sees political goals there. I would advise the authors to gather when the time is right, because in the first reading we accept conceptually, that is, the very ideology of the law, and we fill the second reading with concrete content -- by quantity, by the terms of the Criminal Code, by the terms of release, and so on, by the very mechanism, so that we might want to go to the second reading with one bill, including rational grain from the other. I made my point, and from the committee I officially reported it to you, and mine as a lawyer and a national MP. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u129	Please sign up for the question. Please explain. The word is given to Verni Dubov Ivan Vasilovich, the next to Bartkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u130	Dear Alexander Markovich, do you not think that the difficult economic situation in the country causes us to release those who are not prone to correction and who, we know, will return to the place of deprivation of liberty again?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u131	I don't share that opinion, my dear colleague, because there is statistics. And people who get released are actually not capable of new crimes, because that's going to be part of group I invalids, TB sick, cancer sick, people who have reached 60 or 65 years of age, or those who have children who are underage or disabled in detention. Well, of course, no one can guarantee that they won't do anything, any of them won't commit a new crime. Criminogenic collapse in connection with amnesty in the state will not occur, but the prospect or threat of any of them committing a new crime may be. This already depends on the administration of correctional colonies or on the investigation and on the court that will carry out the mechanism of release from prison itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u132	Basil Bartkov, next up is Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u133	Basil Bartkov, Republic Christian Party, non-factional. Dear Alexander Markovich, I have carefully read the law that is proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, and I must mark as a colleague your lawyer, that he is really perfect from a legal point of view and has extensive tools for resolving this problem. But don't you think it's appropriate to take into account Andrew School's proposals and create some symbiosis from these laws and submit a project that's already been agreed upon for the first time?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u134	Thank you, Vasil Pavlovich. That's exactly what I was talking about. I can imagine putting the job itself on layoffs, preparations. The decision must be taken only by the law court, which Mr. Andrew Schlell proposed to us, and by a bill that is governmental. The mechanisms of government liberation are more flexible and more, I'd say, practical, more real. I also advise them to make that choice, taking into account the positives of both.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u135	The cloud, Stepan Ilkovich. The next Kosovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u136	The cloud, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko, the Party of Fatherland. Dear Alexander Markovich, as I understand it, both bills were carefully considered and discussed for a long time on your committee. I can agree with you that with regard to legal equilibristics, the bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers is perhaps more sophisticated. But this is a specific amnesty law that is based on human principles. And perhaps most of the committee’s national deputies preferred the bill prepared by a member of your committee. So, please tell me, in order not to delay, and yet, the people who are held captive, that is, understandably, why not suggest that the Cabinet Bill be withdrawn and given priority to the proposed bill to your deputies?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u137	Thank you, Stepan Ilkovich. In fact, you have the situation, there was a hot discussion, and the MPs gave us the advantage on the committee, and in the other committees, I know, they gave us the advantage of the government option. We, the two votes were more in favour of the bill of the National MP of the School. Well, it's a voluntary matter, we can't commit to one side or the other, take down your bill. You can recommend anything, but you can still make decisions and MPs, and the government in these matters on its own. Voting will show.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u138	Mikhail Vasilovich Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u139	Mikhailo Kosov, Victor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine." Dear Alexander Markovich, your position is very impressive to me. And it's obviously caused by your experience and it's absolutely right. But tell me, Your Honor Alexander Markovich, tomorrow we will vote, would you not be able to propose one of those proposals that will be heard, namely, to accept two options on the first reading, obliging the subject of the legislative initiative for the second reading to submit one agreed draft? And secondly, could you, as a person with your experience and the first deputy head of the committee, take the initiative and tell the session hall that you are going to agree on these two author initiatives and the next second reading, agreeing to present one harmonized bill? Is it possible or not from your point of view? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u140	Mikhail Vasilovich, thank you. Perhaps anything permitted by the Rules is possible. I promise you that with both subjects of the legislative initiative, with Andrew and with the general, I will negotiate. Taking into account your offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u141	Vladimir Bondarenko has tightened down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u142	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Our Ukraine", city of Kiev. Dear Mr. Reporter! Please tell me, every year, we go back several times to the question of amnesty in this room. So it all depends on the Jubilee of something, or on any events in our social and political life? Whether Ukraine’s decade of independence has been spent in prison or not depends on the fate of its people. Can we not come up with a universal amnesty document on certain articles of people who are in prison because they are doing well and have been there for some time? For this amnesty to take place, as it were, in some cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u143	Thank you. That's exactly what Andrew School was talking about. Adopt a basic, fundamental Amnesty Act and entrust it to the executive authorities, the government, the department, within the framework that we have foreseen. Who does it depend on? It's from the deputies. Is it political? Well, he must be wearing that when we go to meet some great event in the life of the nation, historical events in the life of the state, why not make the festival the maximum number of Ukrainian citizens, including those in prison. I'm saying that this is the Amnesty Act that needs to be adopted, which is always going to work, not make a campaign out of it. The President uses the right of pardon, he uses it all the time, and we're bringing it up to some campaign on a date or a need.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u144	The permanent Amnesty Act is a indulgence that gives you the right to commit a crime and you have to understand that. Time's up, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u145	Gennady Vasilovich, this is also an incentive for proper conduct in places of deprivation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u146	Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to the national deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u147	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", the Party "Protectors of the Motherland." Honorable National Deputies, Honourable People of Ukraine. We are considering an extremely important question. And in order to understand his level of understanding, I would like you to be guided, not by emotion, but by knowledge. I address the authors in particular, both in one way and in another. It's probably easier for me because I was a prosecutor, I was a judge, even a lawyer in the trial, when the school was beaten after the events on March 9, where it was held completely off-limits, and it wasn't a criminal case, but it was detained in a cloud room, and then written that elsewhere, and excused for administrative misconduct when I was a lawyer. So I have the right to say today that Mr. Andrey, the Amnesty Act in Ukraine, was passed in October 1996. I want the creators of that law to know that when they go out on this high court. This law is and must be foreshadowed and enforced if it is to be about such extremely serious things as stopping justice or correcting errors. Of course, the School Bill is closer in spirit. By the letter of law and legal technology, it is so far away that it requires our legislation, as we do from here to the moon. I'll just give you a few things that are here. For example, in the 16th article, it says, "under persons who committed a crime, it should be understood that persons who are convicted of committing this crime; persons who are criminally imprisoned for non-rehabilitative reasons," and it continues, "for the absence of an indictment of a court or a decision to close a criminal case of non-rehabilitative grounds, the person is not considered to have committed a crime." It goes on to say, "and those to whom the law is valid or at the time of its execution according to the decision of the medical commission are recognized as suffering from a serious illness that prevents punishment from taking place. This must be included in the school’s bill. Patients who suffer from a serious illness need to be freed. I'm very sorry that the President of Ukraine is not supposed to be there, but it should be assumed that the Amnesty falls under the amnesty of the President of Ukraine, who has terminated his mandate in the short term. I'm addressing Leonid Danilovich and you, national MPs, if the President does that, we have to write him down and accept his amnesty. And with regard to the specific proposal for the adoption of the law. We need to base the Kabmin bill, but the people on the 9th of March, and the sick people on the 16th, take it from the school's draft law. Then it's not just about emotion, it's going to be about legal technology. With regard to violations of the law, the violation of article 3 and article 2 of the Amnesty Act was allowed in a project proposed by the National Deputy of School. So we can put together a normal bill that will pass normally. I call on the department to move away from the politics of March 9th, this litmus paper in the state happened, people protested against this miserable life, against those conditions, against that president. And that's why they have to be amnesty regardless. And then the story will show, maybe one of them will be recognized as heroes. Thank you for your attention, and I remind you that there is an article in the Criminal Code in the 86th, where it's written, what amnesty is and how it's advertised. It's for those, I was asking questions about populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u148	Sergey Sinchenko. John's next. Stick to the time limit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u149	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! We are probably considering the Amnesty Act every year, and the faction of the Company of Ukraine from which I speak, constantly supports these laws and is actively involved in this process. This year, the same was submitted by two bills. One from the Cabinet of Ministers, the other from the People's Deputy of Ukraine. These instruments are both legal and political. And I'd like to. Especially political in nature is contained in the option presented by the Cabinet of Ministers. As the current executive assesses the gravity of crimes and how it raises questions about amnesty. We've had this book distributed in the hall recently. It's called "Jewish Roulette or Pir During Kuchma." In 1999, a semi-masson organization called the Order of the Saints was registered in Ukraine. So here are pictures of the entire Ministry of Defence and Security of Ukraine's entire elite. I would like to call the current initiator rapporteur, as recorded here, His Excellency the Cavalier of the Commandor Cross of the SS Order of Chevalier Alexander Borisovich Ptašinski, Lieutenant General of the Internal Service. Thus, all of these Chevalier, distinguished people's deputies, and prepared the 7th article, including the traditional set of amnesty laws or draft law. What do they think is the most criminal of all? Why can't amnesty be used? "Creating a Criminal Organization." This organization can be supported by any, including the Soviet officer's union there once registered an organization, which is considered a criminal organization. It can be supported by a group breach of public order. They gathered for a rally that was banned by an illegal court. This act is not amnesty. "Call for action that threatens public order." Any call for a strike, protest, and so on is not a must for amnesty. You remember, a group of people's deputies went from front to back to the President, so this is the action that was later brought about by criminal proceedings in this case, and it's not amnesty, but it's called "the hiding of state or public buildings or buildings" and so on. You know, coal miners have once in a while blocked access roads to their mines as a sign of a final protest. So it's not amnesty and it's called "blocking transport communications" and "taking over a transport company" and so on. The traditional amnesty act cannot be so politicized. Of course, it is best to write an act of the Cabinet of Ministers, but it cannot be supported in the light of this article 7. I therefore propose to adopt the Shkell option as a basis, but to make substantial improvements to it in the light of the existing legislative framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u150	The word is given by John’s Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, I did not by chance ask the rapporteur how much amnesty we actually cost each year. Think, say, even the most basic questions. If a person is convicted of economic offences, economic crimes are usually subject to a documentary audit during the investigation. The value of this documentary audit and 10, and sometimes 15 and 20,000 bracelets. Who's gonna make up for this loss today? But the most important question that I am asking you to focus on is the question of the so-called donation, why we are now becoming so kind at the expense of our victims. I'll give you some examples. Let's say we take the countryside. Some poor old lady's got a cow stolen. He was found guilty and given a year's imprisonment. He's been away for a month, today he's out. Who's gonna replace this old lady with this cow? The mechanism, in fact, does not exist. Today we release fraudsters. He has committed fraud by 50, 60 and over thousand bracelets. He's coming out. Who will make up for the loss of the victims? Question. Today's apartment theft was committed by a man who suffered tremendous damage. He's getting out. What's he gonna be? He will then pay 25 per cent of his salary if he works. [[and if it doesn't work]] So I draw your attention to the fact that this law must certainly be adopted, but only on first reading. The issue of reparation for victims should be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u152	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are working for the last week of this session, so it is suggested that we work without interruption, very many questions. And whoever needs it very much, it's going to take advantage of time. Thank you very much. Let us turn to the next question. Draft law on non-state pension insurance. The word is given to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich. Please. As for the previous question, the vote will take place on the next Thursday. Please, Michael Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted in its first reading a bill on mandatory government pension insurance, which provides for the introduction of a three - level pension system in Ukraine. The first slide that's going to be shown right now characterizes this system. For consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, the Government passed a law on non-State pension insurance, which provides for the legislative settlement of the third phase of the pension system. This bill is essential and needs to be adopted much earlier on such issues and circumstances. First, article 41 of the Constitution provides that all Ukrainian citizens have the right to own, use and manage their property. To this end, appropriate mechanisms must be put in place to realize these rights of citizens. The bill defines mechanisms for the realization of the right of every citizen to fund old age in a non-state pension system. Secondly, more than thirty non-state pension funds are in operation today in Ukraine. Unfortunately, it should be noted that their activities are not sufficiently regulated by valid legislation. And the bill proposed for your consideration is aimed at legislative regulation of current non-state pension funds and not allowing them to lose money. Thirdly, the main function of the state is the social protection of citizens when they reach retirement age. But according to practice, every citizen wants to protect himself as best he can in order to be independent of circumstances, so he tries to raise funds in addition to a government pension. The bill proposed for your consideration right now combines the efforts of the state and the citizen to raise funds for old age. Please look at the next slide that shows. How the non-state pension system works. In this system employers and employees can pay their own fees either to nonstate pension funds or to insurance organizations or to bank deposits. The accumulated funds in these organizations should be invested in order to obtain income that will increase pension payments. Investment income must cover inflationary losses and administrative costs and provide net income to increase pension payments. Stockpiling in bank deposits when reaching the retirement age of a citizen should be counted as non-state pension funds for a fixed term or one-time payment, or to insurance organizations for a fixed term or life pension. Costs accumulated in a non-state pension fund may, at the request of a citizen, be used by non-state pension funds to pay pensions for a fixed term or one-time payment, and the cost of permanent pensions should be counted against insurance companies. This is shown on the chart on the left and right in the session room. What principles of the nonstate pension system do the bill foresee? The first, the bill provides for diversification of the functions of managing the non-state pension fund and the slide that is now being demonstrated shows how the management of the non-state pension fund will be carried out. The bill provides for the creation of a non-State pension fund as a specific legal person. Nonstate pension funds will not have regular employees. The management of such funds will be carried out by a fund board, an administrator, an asset management company that will operate separately. Costs will be stored in a storage bank. This distribution of functions under the administration of a non-state pension fund makes it possible to prevent the bankruptcy of a non-state pension fund and also provides the opportunity to prevent the decision of one person from losing the funds of a pension fund. The second principle of the bill provides for diversification of the investment of non-state pension funds. Please note the slide that shows that non-state pension funds should be invested in various projects. The distribution of funds in various projects is about not allowing them to be lost in one city. The third principle of the bill, the bill provides for the recalculation into the non-state pension system of only personalised contributions with defined contributions. In our view, it is appropriate to apply pension schemes with defined contributions in terms of economic stability and macro-indicators, especially the inflation index. The fourth principle of the bill, with improvements in the economic and financial situation of enterprises in non-state pensions, will be the accumulation of significant financial resources. So to keep these costs from both inflationary and administrative losses. The bill provides that the activity of the non-state pension system will be subject to strict State control. The State’s experience of the insurance market shows that it is possible to avoid loss of funds. What can be expected from the adoption of the bill. It is estimated that the non-state pension system will provide an average of about 10 percent of the average wage of employees. It should be noted that the accumulation of significant financial resources in the non-state pension system will be a significant boost in the further development of insurance and stock markets. In combination with the bill on mandatory State Pension Insurance, the bill under consideration today will promote the legalization of the economy. Dear National Deputies! The Ministry of Labour appreciates the work he has done to prepare his version of the bill. For constructive work in the working group of the Committee on Finance and Banking. But I'm going to accept it in the first reading of the government bill. It should also be noted that the author’s team of this bill includes the Ukrainian national deputies Nadrag Vasil Ivanovich, Noshenko Mikola Petrovich, Cibenko Petrovich, Suškevič Valeriy Mihajlovich, Feldman Alexander Borisovich. We believe that the composition of the copyright team deserves to be taken away by the national deputy Sandler Dmitr Mihajlovich. The government appreciates the work done by the Ukrainian National Deputies in preparing the bill. Taking into account the stated social orientation of this bill, and taking into account the message of President Leonid Danilovich Kuchma to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the main directions for reforming the pension system of the population of Ukraine on speeding up the adoption of pension legislation, please accept it as a basis that would allow the committees of the Supreme Council, together with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to work on it as quickly as possible for adoption in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u154	Please sign up for the questions. Light up, please. Kosinov, next Malinowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u155	Please tell me. Kosinov, NDP faction, 170 district, town of Harikov. How does the law proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers fit into the general concept of pension insurance? And in view of what we will say about the creation of a three-level, two-tier pension system, have long been born, but a new law has not yet been passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u156	Thank you for asking. The point is that we have today, you know, well, I would say, the basic laws are the laws that were adopted in the first reading of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Law on the General Compulsory State Pension Insurance. And now there's a working group working on redrafting this law for second reading. This law, it regulates the first two levels today: it's the first level -- the solidarity pension system and the second level -- it's a cumulative pension system. The main problem that exists today in Ukraine is that if you take the amount of contributions to the Pension Fund from salary, it's now 32 plus 2 percent. So today we really, really have restrictions on the pensions of Ukrainian citizens, if you say roughly, the average pension relative to the average wage, it sets a ratio of about 30 percent. I don't think that's enough. Today we need to ensure citizens' rights, and that is exactly what our bill presented to you today, at your own request, voluntarily, along with employers to make extra payments to non-state pension funds. And that would enable us to raise pensions on average to 60 to 70 percent of the average wage, as is the case in the civilized countries of the world. Moreover, today we need to introduce these three levels, because Ukraine, like all countries in Europe, is looking forward to an ageing nation, and it is happening now. So we're going to have to reduce the number of working citizens by one pensioner. And in the future, if we leave that much on a robust pension system, it'll lead us to have one employee in 2026. So we're going to have a pension crisis for citizens. And we're not going to be able to raise our pension and channel money into social protection, we're going to have to cut our pension insurance. And that's why, in advance of today's government, laws are being introduced that, by deepening the protection of people from inflation, from demographic processes, ensure that they actually get money for old age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u157	Malinovsky Alexei Petrovich The next one is Odysnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u158	Alexei Malinowski, a faction of socialists. Dear reporter! You don't think that when you're in a state, in principle, Savings debts that the adoption of this law creates new trusts? That's the first question. And the second question. I ask you to pass the word to Vernigori, he will ask the same question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u159	Dear Michael Mikolaiovich! I would like to ask you, did you have any idea why the Committee on Pensioners, Disabled Persons and Veterans and the Committee on Social Policy made proposals to your ministry, but the Committee on Financial and Banking? Isn't it just to remove money from the world that could be used? That's the first one. And the second. You deliberately merged two questions: the second level of pension insurance, which is an insurance pension and what is actually. Is today in order of the day -- about non-state pension? These are completely different things. Please give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u160	The point is that the question concerned in general the concept, the first question, the concept of pension reform. And today I'm, you know, interested in no less than you are -- I'm telling you honestly -- the question of how to save these costs. I mean, so they don't get lost to citizens, because they're personalized contributions from both Ukrainian citizens and employers. That's why this law provides for two levels of diversification. The first is the management of these costs. I mean, the introduction of an asset management firm of the Pension Fund as well as an administrator, and which of these laws can first what? - to settle these issues. What is more, we still have an existing state control over the use of funds here today. I mean, the Financial Market Regulation Commission, which today is created, which now exists, and which today is also involved in drafting this bill, is going to be overseeing the use of these funds. In addition, the bill provides for the diversification of deposits. I mean, it's not possible to invest all the money in some kind of investment program or one investment project. They are limited, and there are limits to investing in government securities. In addition, no more than 10 percent of the funds can be invested in investment projects. At the same time, no more than 5 in one of the projects. And that's how we're doing this system today that's going to save money and make it impossible for moments like we know MMWe and others. In addition, I am now addressing the Ukrainian National Deputies, this bill will be prepared for our second reading. I mean, everyone who has their own proposals will be grateful if you submit them to a committee of the Supreme Council that will present this bill. And the Committee on Finance and Banking. The point is, as I said, these issues are being addressed today by the State Commission from the financial market, regulation of the financial market is financial issues, that is, the transaction of funds. That is why this committee of the Supreme Council was considering this law. The second level is the accumulation system. And you know there are some.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u161	Mikhail Mikolaiovich, there is no time. One question cannot be answered for so long, many have been asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u162	The point is that this is the main question that interests us today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u163	It's a very important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u164	Then I want to say that the accumulation system, which is provided for in the National Pension Insurance Act, is not identified with this system and this bill, but they have something in common with the investment of the funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u165	22 national deputies enrolled in questions. You can't say that! I've already announced Odinenik. Please, Mikolayovich, your last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u166	Mikola Odynik, "Our Ukraine" faction, "Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u167	Try to be more concise, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u168	That's the main question, by the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u169	Please tell me, Your Honor, we know that the unprotected part of the population is the pensioners we're going to become tomorrow. And you've shown very nicely in your bill how to manage non-state funds, how to manage the flow of funds, but unfortunately, I don't see in your bill how to protect our pensioner, so that he won't be robbed again tomorrow, robbed of those trusts, and he's not left with anything. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u170	I've already talked in detail about the protection of these funds, because the citizens of Ukraine, whose money will be contributed to non-state pension funds, have the right to control these funds. That's why we have a board that will manage these funds, because we have three forms: open, corporate non-state pension funds and professional pension funds, which will include 9 representatives, 3 from, including 3 from specific investors, who will also control the use of these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u171	Okay. Thank you. Have a seat, please. He will report to the First Deputy Head of the Finance and Banking Committee, Kaputsin Viktor Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u172	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Finance and Banking considers this bill repeatedly. A special working group was set up to familiarize itself with the proposals of deputies, all interested organizations about the bill, and the committee came to the following conclusions. The first conclusion is that this bill should be adopted as soon as possible because the situation in the country dictates it. There are now dozens of organizations in Ukraine, dozens of institutions that call themselves pension funds, that are actually risking the loss of these pension funds by investors. These organizations work outside the legislative field and are not regulated from a legal point of view. We need to stop this practice. It's different. Every citizen of our country, because they all eventually become pensioners, from our point of view, has the right to choose and have the opportunity to increase their pension savings, thereby increasing their pensions by participating in non-state pension funds by contributing to their deductions or counting by the employer to non-state pension funds in order to eventually increase their pensions. The third important factor, we think, is that the accumulation of funds in pension funds makes it possible to create a large and long-term financial resource that can be used in the country's financial markets and that is used very actively in many financial markets in the world through certain types of investment. I would also like to highlight the fact that today, where there were many speakers, many of those who asked questions, I would like to stress the fact that the reliability and security of contributions, the contributions of members of the pension funds from the risk of losing them is a cornerstone, is the issue of the bill's issues, is the most important concept that has been put into this bill. My master has already answered this question, and I don't want to repeat what systems of deterrence and opposition are set out in this bill. What are the basic principles on which the system of non-state pension funds is based? I'd like to list them briefly and bring them to your attention. In principle, the point is that a member of the pension fund is the owner of the pension funds accumulated in his name, that is, those pension funds are his private property, and this is very important. The other one. Pension funds are personalized both in the part of the pension contributions and in the part of the investment income of the fund. This is also very important, and this is an incentive factor for participation in pension funds. Participation in the pension fund is totally voluntary. Any member of the pension fund may voluntarily participate in it or not participate in it if he does not wish to. Every member of the pension fund is free to enter, join and withdraw from the pension fund at any time he wishes. There is a direct correlation between the size of pension contributions and the size of pension payments. The pension assets of the fund participant may be inherited, which also results from the right of private property to the accumulated pension costs of the participant of the pension fund. To increase the reliability of the pension funds, there is a distinction between the activities of the fund, which was displayed on the screen today, and you've all seen it. There's a pension fund administrator, there's a fund board, an asset management company, a savings bank, and so on and so forth. Investing in the assets of the pension fund and diversifying them entails the goal of ensuring that the value of these assets is preserved. The work of pension funds is absolutely transparent. They have to report to members of pension funds, and they have to report to an authorized government authority that has the right and obligation to monitor the activities of these pension funds. The main point of this is the personification of pension contributions. I would like to point out that there was some dispute as to whether these contributions were to be made in solidarity or strictly personalized. Nevertheless, most have tended to see that the personification of these contributions is absolutely necessary in order to be able to account for the contribution of each participant in the pension fund. Of course, like any bill, it needs to be improved. There have been many suggestions from interested organizations, from interested people's deputies, and I want to thank all those who care about this bill. I think that if we accepted it tomorrow on the first reading, which would be very important, then between the second and the first reading, we could improve and count a whole series of comments and suggestions that have been made. For example, I think in parallel with the preparation of this bill for second reading, it would be helpful to make some improvements to the tax bills. There are some other things that need improvement in this law and in other laws. On the basis of the above, the committee proposes that the bill be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u173	Please sign up for questions. Lighten up. Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, next to Gurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u174	Dear reporter! Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, 160th constituency, Trudova Ukraine. I'm on the eighth, maybe I won't make it. I'd like to ask a question like that. You've given very little attention to what it'll do to the person who's willing to accumulate, the legal person who's distracting part of his income, and the state eventually. The question of the formula is, do you count, if it's all ideal, what kind of budget losses are going to be incurred today because we're giving benefits to citizens and benefits to legal persons? The other one. What percentage of the investment income you predict will appear in the accounts of people who today will want to create their accounts in a nonstate fund. So today we can put this bill on the county and explain to people what the advantage of this system is. I will support the accumulation system and this bill, but I would like to hear your qualified response that you discussed during the preparation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u175	With regard to budget losses and pension benefits, this bill does not provide for such benefits, because we know that under the Rules only separate laws can be established on the subject of taxation, the issue of tax reduction or the increase in taxes, the tax system. So this law doesn't foresee it, and I said when I finished my report on what we need to think about when we prepare this law for second reading. This is a very important point from the point of view of stimulating deductions to pension funds. What's the percentage of the investment? The law states that if the Pension Fund has any income from its investments, these incomes will be distributed in proportion to the contribution of each participant to the Pension Fund. If the participant has, for example, one percent of the total pension fund, then he has to receive one percent of the investment income that the Pension Fund receives.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u176	Gurov Vadim Mikolaiovich, next Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u177	Vadim Gurov, 32 constituency, Krivbas, People's Landing faction. Dear colleague! I would like this bill to be adopted in the first reading, but I would like you to answer a few of my questions that raise some doubts. First. There is no clear definition of the status of an authorized pension authority. In our view, it would be appropriate to define more clearly the rights of this body and to provide for its subordination to the Ministry of Finance. It's different. This calls into question the need for agent certification. In our view, the work of pension agents does not differ significantly from that of an insurance agent. Hence, there is no need to impose additional serious requirements on those who can provide agency services. And third. Until now, the final issue of taxation in the area of pension insurance has not been settled. In our view, then, the bill should at least define the concept of such taxation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u178	I thank you for asking. These are really very important questions. As far as the status of the authorized authority is concerned. Well, you know, the creation of a Commission for the Regulation of Financial Non-Banking Markets, which also has this status as an authority authorized by the State to control these financial institutions, including non-State pension funds. Of course, this organization will have its statute, its order of work. And of course, we have to push away from this when we talk about State control over non-state pension funds. About the agents. You've clearly noticed the specialty that retired agents are in, where they remind insurance agents. So their job is to participate in the pension fund as many participants as possible. Well, that's right, there's got to be an ad, of course. Just as insurance organizations are involved in their programs of people who want to be insured. I think about clarifying the status of these agents, you might think, really, here you can. This is one of the things that might require improvement when we work on this bill for the second reading. It's possible. And third, taxation. I said that we can't talk about this very specifically in this law, even though there are certain moments there. For example, when we talk about corporate pension funds, if an employer pays his contributions to a corporate pension fund proportionally to all members of his group, that amount goes to the employer's expense. This is the moment that's in this law. As far as taxation is concerned. There are different systems. You know, we've had a few round tables and a few discussions on that. There are different systems of taxation in different countries. There is no general example here. For example, there is a system of taxation of contributions to the Pension Fund. There's a pension tax system. Various systems. We have not yet come to the final conclusion on how to do this. It's still a psychological question. For example, young people, they need to get rid of their pension taxes more, and people who are soon to retire need not be taxed. You know, there's a role to psychology here. So this is an important question. We will discuss it without fail. It'll probably take some time. We'll be holding round tables. I'm asking you to take part in this job if you're interested.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u179	Last question: Masenko Alexander Mikolayovich. Please be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u180	Thank you. I am interested in such a question. When this law is enforced or in force, these standards will be voluntary or compulsory. Because in practice, it's often so common that it starts as if it's from a volunteer, and then we move on to a coerced, it becomes a normal thing? And whoever bears the responsibility, as we often do, let the savings say that it was another country that no longer exists. The Bank of Ukraine was already in this state, and it's gone, and the people by now are the ones who haven't made any investments in this bank. We know the trusts of those who were introduced by today's President when he was the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who tricked people, who had accumulated them all, and who had profited from them separately. So won't this build-up go to the pension funds that people will accumulate, someone will gain, and people will lose their pensions?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u181	In terms of volunteerism, volunteering is one of the fundamental pillars of the existence of these nonstate pension funds. A person has to have a choice or be a participant or not, and this is what he has to do on a totally voluntary basis in terms of convenience or disadvantage of a particular participant and criteria that he has to evaluate. Who Will Take Responsibility? Of course, the pension fund's administration has to be responsible, as stated in this bill, that the pension fund management company, i.e. the pension fund administrator, is responsible under existing legislation. This is the responsibility of managing the pension fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u182	Okay. Have a seat, please. The committee would like to discuss it for five minutes. In view of the importance of this question, why not set 10 minutes? I didn't hear. What? Okay, let's do this, we're going to go after the list that's signed up, and then, if we have to, we're going to vote or we're going to continue or not. Please, Pavlovsky. Next Cossack.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I want to draw attention to the fact that we have very smart oligarchs, and the mind of theirs, the activity grows a little bit more they have money, the more initiative they have. They were trusts at first. What's more, it's a good idea. To destroy our Ukraine, we need to resuscitate Kuchma's trust decree. [[I meant like a state.]] On their base, it's going to be great. Everything was clear there. Moreover, since the media are in the hands of the same oligarchs, they will make such an advertisement, such that no one will ever come out of it. And what's more, look, even for the sake of that, they're changing. Three years from now, tops. How will you find it? Who Will Answer? Notice, when we take investments in Ukraine or foreign loans, they all demand that there be a state guarantee and that the state is accounted for by both Russia and gas and so forth. And there's the state on the side. She's controlling something. What to Control? So this scheme is very clear. What's more, - pay attention! - The same people yesterday, the same oligarchs wanted to adopt the law to privatize the ports. Today, the source of the old scheme, by the way, is a beautiful terminology of "scheme," which is a pattern of robbing the population of Ukraine. It's all gone. Moreover, a source disappears to pay this social pension, a pension for scientists, and others. There is no source, for you can see that all employers are united and so forth. So this established mechanism for robbing the population of Ukraine has no relationship. And what's more, we're going to do it again, we're going to do it again, we're going to move money into offshore areas, we're going to invest Western production instead of our own. So today this is really all there is, if you put it in the state pension fund, all this and it can work. And the state pension fund will provide two types of social pension and pension, which is a person-personized pension. Moreover, he already has a network, he has every number of his own, that is, no problem. There's only one problem. There's no one to steal. That's why we're arguing that this bill can't be adopted on the first reading, because the concept has to be changed. We have to sit down, write a new law, there are some schemes that are useful, put it into a state pension fund as a stockpiling system, and then it can work. And this law can't be. You do realize that our people are the third, fourth, to invade these rakes in order to remain looted again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u184	The word is Puzakov, the next is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u185	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine With the aim of improving the pension provision of citizens, in 1998, reforms were initiated, resulting in a low level and slight differentiation of pensions. The content of reform is the introduction of a three-level pension system, which has been mentioned today. The first level is the solidarity system of pension payments, the pensions that are paid from current earnings, we understand that. And the second and third jealousy is the question. Is there another mugging of the people, a new insurance company? The second level of the pension insurance system is the formation of a system of accrual individual pension accounts within the framework of a compulsory pension insurance, the cost of individual savings accounts will be the property of the insured person and will be paid to him after reaching retirement age in the form of an eternal payment. Unreceivables in life will be transferred, as was said today, to heirs in the established law of order. Would that not be the case with trusts? Will they be paid in the same way as today’s labor savings? It seems to me that in order to function reliably in a cumulative pension system, we need a well-developed and stable banking sector, a stock market and insurance companies, which unfortunately we don't have today. The third level is a non-state pension scheme that will provide an additional pension through voluntary pension contributions from citizens. The foundation of this system will be nonstate pension funds, including those created on a professional basis, such as means of increasing investment income, additional pensions by combining pension contributions from citizens. Additional pensions will be generated at the expense of businesses and citizens’ own resources. Involvement in the additional pension insurance of part of the income of enterprises can further increase the level of pension insurance, so the level of social protection. So the question is, who will be better protected -- who gets the first level pension, or who gets the third? Who has the chance to increase their pension by voluntary contributions today? Of course, it is not a simple peasant, nor is it a mere laborer who does not have an extra soul today. So, first of all, let's start with the government and the distinguished national MPs, and we'll stop defrauding our labor people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u186	The word is given to the national deputy Karmazin. The next one is Samantha.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u187	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! The question is, Is the law necessary, or is it not necessary, or is it not necessary, to accept nothing at all, so as not to be ripped apart? No, it's not. I think that thieves need to be put in jail, where we can make room, and the law needs to be passed. And the law will have to be passed, it was clear in the past. And it was in the past that a law was drafted on non-state pension insurance, which was adopted in the first reading. And I have to say that after taking a serious, thorough analysis of both one and the other bill, I've seen that they've taken into account many of the observations that some people are now afraid that something will happen if they're accepted. They're really accounted for, but not to the end. In particular, I would like to remind you that as early as September 99, the Supreme Council had adopted Supreme Council Resolution 1031, which provided that the draft law on non-state pension funds should be considered only after the adoption of the laws. About what? Financial transactions are the first law. The second law is about trustful property management. And the third law is about government compulsory pension insurance. From these laws today, the Supreme Council has adopted only one law on financial services and government regulation of financial services markets. As a result, if two more laws are not passed, this law will simply not work properly. That's it. And that's what we need to understand. If you can get out of this, I think you can accept it on the first reading. And I would like to say, in honor of the government, that he at least managed not to give instructions, as he always does, and not by the thesis, but by a more serious bill, and there are also requirements for banking institutions that provide non-State pension services, let's say, in article 75, where this is provided. But to take into account these contradictions that are said today, to take into account that the 50th article provides for the possibility that citizens can accumulate part of the compulsory insurance contributions in the non-state pension fund and the extent of these contributions should be established in accordance with the legislation on state-owned, state-owned pension insurance, and this law is not available, i.e. to lift these laws now in order to adopt their agreed option, it is necessary. And to unlock the situation that exists in the state, it is also necessary, because the state is not going to pull it that way today, it is not going to provide its citizens with a normal pension. So I would like to support the draft law on the mandatory development of these points and the preparation of the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to finalize these two other laws, which were also recognized by the Supreme Council in 1999. This will no longer require an additional vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u188	Solomatin Yuri Petrovich, please. Kirilenko's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u189	Yuri Solomatin, faction of Communists in the Kyiv region Dear colleagues, I would like to recall that the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 17 January 2002 on second reading rejected Government Bill No. 1069 on non-State pensions, for which 191 deputies voted in favour, mainly from the “ZAEDU” faction. During the discussion of the bill, it was found that, in fact, all the pension reform that is taking place in Ukraine, including this bill, is a spiritual and cultural collaborationism and a civilizational alteration of all the historical traditions of the relationship between the peoples that were made up of our Orthodox-Slavian civilization. Have our reformers drawn the right conclusions from this criticism, which was then made? I don't think so. So I want to remind you what happened this summer in the United States. And there was a huge corporate scandal around the world's largest energy bankruptcy by Enron and its pension fund. The world's best energy, the main business is gas, the company Enron, created 17 years ago, failed. It has turned into a paper paw of 63 billion dollars in its assets, including a two billion pension fund created by the company. Who's got it? Among those who have benefited from the collapse of Enron, at least 35 U.S. Presidential officials have cast a shadow on U.S. President George Bush, Jr. According to the American press, Tenni Clay, the executive director of Enron, provided approximately $6 million to support both parties, including the Republican candidates of 4.5 million and half of that amount, during the Bush electoral campaign itself. But the chicken doesn't put eggs in one nest, and that's about what the Democrats got. It now becomes clear why the White House officials refused to provide the Congress with documents of interest even under threat of trial. The Ministry of Justice refused to provide a special representative for the case. The trickery mechanism has proved to be very simple. First, the Enron campaign has created a number of subsidiaries that have been credited with all the losses, and income has been credited to the central account, which has created an illusion of full well-being for shareholders. Similar schemes have been used by the Russian economic genius Chubays, and in our country, some have learned to do so. Secondly, very interesting things have been found in the audit of the campaign. The world-famous company Artur Andersen had its specialists as business consultants in Enron itself. It is clear, therefore, that this campaign has hidden the real situation of things, and when the real situation has been verified, the auditor has begun to destroy the documents. Colleagues! I want to tell you about the following, a similar scheme has been prepared for implementation in Ukraine. Therefore, the bill cannot be adopted for principled reasons even on first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u190	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u191	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues! The country is trying to implement a pension reform. This is happening quite fluently, but persistently. The basic law on "Generally Compulsory State Pension Insurance" is under consideration by the working group and it examines two main levels, this law should determine two basic levels of pension insurance. A solidarity system and a stockpiling fund. The Law on Non-State Pension Funds is the third component of pension reform and it certainly cannot be preceded by framework legislation. On the other hand, we are faced with realities that say that non-state pension funds are still operating. They're only registered for over a hundred, and they're trying to do their own financial work for about 30, maybe a little more. The Constitution forbids the Supreme Council and anyone from allowing such a business in the country as it is. So entrepreneurs who try to implement non-state pension projects will still be, and they'll still find the participants in this insurance. That is, the Supreme Council, in general, is obliged to settle this matter in a legislative way. Which is what the government is trying to do right now, as well as the MPs who are taking care of this problem. But after a story with trusts, as is rightly said here, the confidence of the electorate, the population of any financial institution that does some kind of entrepreneurial activity is extremely low, and therefore, even if the Law on Non-State Pension Funds is in force, the big question is who will voluntarily bear their funds from the solidarity system additionally voluntarily to non-State pension funds, because trust and trust in the state in this part and not to such institutions. Thus, this law must presuppose more than anything else a meaningful and systematic state regulation of the activities of nonstate pension funds. And what Kaputsin spoke about in the creation of a commission on the regulation of non-bank markets is the first step in making the state fully responsible for the activities of non-state pension funds, if this is normalized. There are a lot of problems here, and the main one is possible corruption, if you want, because any corporate non-state pension fund can be built on business or family connections when employers find people who set up a non-state pension fund, forcing workers to participate in it. And it's no longer a voluntary system, it's already a compulsory system, as mentioned here. But it can also be settled. Similarly, a major problem is the need to tax pension funds because they will not work without it. And business interest in such structures simply won't be. Like the stock market problem that is now in Ukraine, it is underdeveloped. And for the time being, introducing non-state pension funds into this undeveloped stock market may be too little. But in our view, in the first reading, this bill needs to be adopted with a view to making a thorough second reading of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u192	Dear colleagues! Listen, please. We've taken our regular time - 45 minutes for five minutes. We need to be clear. That's how I propose. The factions we have are Dry, Vernighor and NDP Kosinov and we're done. The Communist factions were already speaking. Let's vote. There's a 45-minute schedule, we're working 50. To vote or is he the factions of the three men I said? I can't hear you. Should we put it to a vote, or should we conclude the discussion? From factions. Please. The word is Suhi Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, please. The next Vernigora.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u193	Dear National Deputies! Disputes over pension reform have not diminished in Ukraine in recent years, and that is understandable. I'll briefly remind you of what our voters tell us, which we've talked about in this room over and over again. First. The injustice of the pension system is said to be unfair in relation to those who received small wages. There's a low level of pensions, the average pension is 130 dollars, and today it's not even enough to eat that it's not housing. It's about the reasons - the debt of businesses. 130,000 companies don't pay at all to the Pension Fund, out of the 23 million working people in the 16th century, they make regular calculations. There's a huge system of benefits, there's fixed tax payers who pay 50 million in a year, and they get 5.6 billion and so on. Profits are hidden in the shadows. It's a demographic reason. All of this leads to a crisis in the solidarity system. I want to make one comment. Dear National Deputies! Political rhetoric has nothing to do with this. The crisis of the solidarity system of the pension system is not really a Ukrainian phenomenon. A similar crisis is experienced in all countries where there is a solidarity system in one way or another. Similarly, there is no pension system in the world that can and will solve all problems and satisfy everyone. In such cases, each state creates a system that consists of individual components. Taking into account the specificity of the socio-political realities of our state, the government for the task of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and we voted it out on November 15, 2001, we acknowledged the need for a progressive implementation of a three-level pension system. I remind you, this is a law on mandatory government pension insurance on November 15, 2001. The first level, we've already talked about, the solidarity system will guarantee the minimum size for all pensioners. The second compulsory pension insurance is when the payments are made, plus in solidarity somewhere. get 50 percent. The third level we're looking at with you today. I also understand the committee's report very well. That main nerve that builds up some frightens one another will create the imagination of huge sums that will be collected on the accumulation system and stored there for a while. A brief change of law, we've already talked about it. The Committee on Social Policy has repeatedly considered these problems. We come from the cost of living, the cost of increasing pensions is lacking. And how long can society endure the rise in social tension? The fundamental reform of the entire pension system is necessary, it creates conditions for a fair choice of people, to increase interest in their own work that will ensure them in the future. At the same time, pension reform requires, I fully agree with my colleague Salomatini, a very and very detailed preliminary discussion and a public discussion. Especially unacceptable are both hasty and blind implementation of recommendations from overseas counselors. Ukraine should learn to live in its own mind, both in the economy and in the social sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u194	Thank you. Leonid Mikhailovich Vernigor. Next Kosinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u195	Leonid Vernigora, Ukrainian Socialist faction. Dear colleagues and distinguished listeners! I could fully agree if, as insistently as the Cabinet of Ministers today, and unfortunately, the Banking Committee offers us to accept this strategy or concept of pension insurance or reform, if they are not in the interests, we will say so to all the working Ukraine and the two committees that are only taking part in the discussion today. And isn't that a sight to see why not these two committees -- the Committee of Social Policy and the Committee on Retired Affairs -- passed this bill? What if it's just about getting some money and turning it around so someone knows they have control over it and 20 years from now, someone's going to ask future pensioners where they share their savings? In our memory, it is not just the trusts of MMM, the doves, in our memory, for example, that each of us has for eight years in a row, as people say, removed 1 percent of the salary from a personalized pension fund. Where's the money, I want to ask you what's going to agitate us today and still take the money? And second of all, I want to ask. Why is it so deliberate to mix in pension reform all three levels of pension future, pension insurance? We understand that in our country, which is enshrined as a social state in the first article of the Constitution, we should be with you, all the committees, to care for the solidarity principle of pension insurance. That's the first one. We're offered a second accumulation and a third is at the expense of each pensioner, future pensioner and who? Those people who today receive only one third of their living minimum. And we have such deputies, such committees that offer to take money from these people so that they have less wages. By what law can this be decided or allowed to take away a minimum of living? So I would like, in view of the fact that our Committee of Social Policy has only brought this issue into order today, I ask you, Your Honor, to postpone or withdraw the proposed project, or simply to remove it from consideration, or to entrust the two Committees with first looking into the concept of these laws, and then to decide whether to discuss it and introduce it into pension reform or not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u196	Stanislav Kosinov. We can't cancel the discussion because we're already discussing it. And we will make decisions and determine each one within the limits of the Rules. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u197	Kosinov, NDP faction, Harikov city, 170 district. Of course, there are positive elements to this bill, the first is, in principle, we can de jure get extra money and increase the material condition of our people. Secondly, we can also count de jure on the expectation of decent, secure old age and we can, but can, contribute to the rise in the socio-economic state of the state. Of course, such positive moments attract, but unfortunately there are some negative moments. On some of them, allow me to pause more closely. First. A person who works must count his money into a state pension fund and also have the right to count it into a nonstate pension fund. In doing so, counting into a non-state pension fund for those who work may be in the form of, first, pension savings on personal pension accounts and, secondly, pension savings on solidary pension accounts. Please indicate, and at what cost does the employee have in order to provide for, at least at least, his needs, the more so that, according to this bill, the employer can voluntarily decide to make deductions in favour of his employees in the non-State pension scheme, while the employees voluntarily participate in the non-State pension scheme and in the choice of type of pension payments, except in the cases provided for in this law. There are no such cases for the employer. Next. The employer, not the employee, has the right to open a solidarity account. It's different. The actuarial evaluation proposed in the bill is considered to be hanging in the air. The implementation of the rules governing its implementation will lead to the existence of an actuarial subjective approach to the performance of its duties. Actuarial valuation is carried out in a mandatory manner by an independent actuary, although the assessment method is developed by an authorized body. So what is the independence of this appreciation? Thirdly, the proposed bill does not provide for the responsibility of an actuary for improperly carrying out his duties, as it provides for the termination or cancellation of a licence for the administration of a non-State pension fund. And actuarial valuation standards are administrative and do not exist. So, can we talk about actuarial activity as a guarantee of reducing the risk of a non-State pension fund investor? Fourthly, there is absolutely no settled question about how an independent actuary is involved, something else. Who's putting it together? Fifthly, it is quite doubtful that the State is guaranteeing compliance with legislation on non-state pensions through the creation of a pool of guarantee funds. Because it's simply not cost-effective for these funds to exist. What is the guarantee mechanism? What government institutions should set up such a foundation? So in our view, in the view of the faction of the People's Democratic Party, it is appropriate not to adopt this law at this time. There are, of course, positive points in this law, but its adoption is premature in the future, because a basic law that clearly regulates the entire pension system in Ukraine has not yet been adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u198	From the faction of the party of entrepreneurs and industrialists, the word is given to Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u199	The honourable presidency, the honourable national deputies, the discussion of this project today is extremely important and relevant, because this is the first necessary step that we should take in implementing the pension reform that so much is being talked about and declared in our documents by all levels of authority. In Ukraine’s demographic situation, state pensions cannot be substantially increased. We know it is. And a solidarity system cannot and will not live up to its obligations. So today we need to open the way for everyone, every citizen of Ukraine, to have a legal right to worry about their future. I speak again, voluntarily, but on condition that the state gives its word of full respect for the obligations of the subjects of this process and acts as a guarantor. I would like to remind you that it is a natural person who should be willing to accumulate in his account the funds that will be used by him or her or her heirs. The second, legal person should be interested in diverting part of his funds and putting a citizen of Ukraine on the bill. And third, what does this state win? First of all, she loses some of her income from her budget, but then she gets a big investment base. I would like to point out that today we are looking more closely at financial flows. And that must have been the management of the Supreme Council, when the Cabinet of Ministers' project was signed by the Basic Committee, the Main Committee is the Committee of Banks and Finances. Why so? And that's probably the answer to the question, and how will the person who will take part in the non-state pension be protected, I didn't get the full answer from the board member. So I suggest, first, take the first step, we're going to go to it for the third time, and consider accepting it in the first reading. Second, the bill provides for the protection of a member of this system. If the state does not guarantee that the individual will not increase income that is at least adequate to the percentage of the bank, no one will put a penny there. And finally, if we vote, there's a proposal, necessarily when we're working on the task of assigning profile committees, it's a committee of social policy, it's a committee that's looking after pensioners. So that they can comment on their second reading on the increased protection of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u200	Last, Hinsburg Olga Petrovna, please, very tightly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u201	Thank you for your word. Respectable deputies, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! I understand that a very serious issue is being addressed today, and above all this issue is very important for those who listen to us. And we're being listened to by a lot of our voters today, which is 14.5 million of our pensioners. I understand we're not just talking about the law. We have a problem, the law is passed for a purpose. What's important today is that I understand it for myself, for a pensioner. It is important for the pensioner today to receive the timely pension that the postal home will bring him, that pension will be sufficient for him to have a normal subsistence minimum. We ask the question: Dear pensioner, what other questions do you have for the State? The retiree says, "I have questions to ask the State for today. Respectable deputies, a respected State, today I do not have a pension at home." That is, in many regions, the pension was made through banks and banks are holding back, as if reform had already gone. So today we're starting to talk about that the money that the pensioner gets can be rolled up and have some income on it. This system has already been put into operation. But the question is, it doesn't suit our pensioner, in any case, my electorate. He says, “Please bring this pension home to me.” There are questions in the village. And how's a rural pensioner going to get the money to the bank? That's a problem, too. And the next major problem is he's not settled by the amount he's getting and the amount he's getting. And we're discussing this law with you today, and I'm sure we're talking about setting up our pensioner's requirements, and we want to give him more pension, but we don't know how to do it. And here we are tormented, whether it's a savings system or a second reading, adopting this law of compulsory pension insurance, or maybe another third we can come up with, anyway. For example, I have questions about the law that the Cabinet of Ministers is offering us today. What are these questions? I want to sound them. First. Will that be the money you have to pay. A voluntary non-State fund-raising pension, which, as the system would be, would it be put into circulation in the State? And which banks and where it's going to be released. Next. Would that not be the same freezing as the savings in January 1992? Third. How will a man who works in the market get a pension, a person who does not work anywhere, but who has a lot of money in the way of dishonesty? How will he contribute this money, and how will he secure his pension? And the other. These are all the problems that I haven't found an answer to in this law that I have today. I therefore believe that this law cannot be adopted in a programme like today. I would like to say in closing my statement that pension reform must, the goal must be something that is not easy, because there are other options. First, maintaining a social employment pension by age is the main thing. Raise it to the standard of living of a modern person. A man has to live for that pension. The minimum pension should not be less than 50 per cent of the salary paid to a worker or an employee, as was the case in Soviet times. And all our pensioners remember that time when they could live normally and help their children with their Soviet pensions. The maximum pension should exceed the average wage of the worker and the employee, which should exceed the average wage. Most importantly, any ongoing pension reforms must ensure the normal development of our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, we've been discussing this for over an hour. The factions have all expressed themselves. Let's finish and be determined on Thursday by voting. Let's move on to the next question. The draft of the Law on the Definition of Legal Property Subjects in Ukraine is the property of the Union-wide public associations, the organizations of the former Soviet Union. Reports the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment, Matthew Josephic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u203	Dear colleagues! I would like to say that I am now speaking and as the author of the bill and as the co-rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of Peoples' Economy, Property and Investment. Many in this Chamber may recall that the question of determining the subjects of ownership of the property of the allied social organizations of the former Soviet Union has been considered by the Supreme Council in fact since Ukraine's declaration of State sovereignty, that is, since 1991. In April 1992, for example, an Order was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the property complexes and financial resources of the social organizations of the former Union of Soviet Unions located in Ukraine. And in February 1994, the Ordinance on the Property of Social and Allied Social Organizations of the former Union of the Soviet Union. The most recent decree of the property of the social organizations of the former USSR temporarily prior to the legislative definition of the legal right-holders was recognized as State-owned property and mandated the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to determine by 1 March 1994 the administrations of the property of the federal public organizations of the former USSR, which would temporarily exercise the functions of managing these assets. Regrettably, neither the first nor the second decree contained any specific definition of the status of such property nor of its origin, nor was the mechanism for the recognition of the right of ownership and of the subjects of that right established. The Ukrainian members of the Supreme Council of the Second and Third Council tried to resolve the problem at the level of law, but no final decision had been taken. The draft law I have introduced provides for the following. First. The law does not apply to the property of former republican and regional social associations, organizations and their bodies that had been held in Ukraine. In the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, the status of legal persons, separate property and as of 24 August 1991 did not form part of allied social organizations. Property acquired by them before 24 August 10991 through their own resources, as well as public property transferred to them by decision of the State authorities of the former Union of the Soviet Union and the Ukrainian Soviet Union, as well as property transferred to them under the law, shall be recognized as property of the relevant public organizations. They are not covered by the draft law. In fact, the bill lays down the legal basis for determining the entity of ownership of the property of the former Union of the Soviet Union in Ukraine, which, I ask you to note, had central executive bodies with the right of legal entities outside Ukraine, and in the territory of the USSR had institutional structures without the right of legal persons. The property of these organizations prior to the determination of the subject of the right of ownership shall be recognized as State property, which is temporarily owned and used by the public organizations of Ukraine or by natural or legal persons who acquired it. Draft article 4 provides for the judicial procedure for determining such entities of ownership. The authority empowered by the Cabinet of Ministers shall give preliminary consideration to the application by public organizations for recognition by its owner of the property of the federal public organizations of the former USSR of all necessary documents and shall then submit the relevant material to the court. The Committee on Economic Policy for the Management of Peoples' Property, Investment, at its meeting on 11 September, considered the draft law last year, and the draft law on the definition of ownership of property in the territory of Ukraine of the property of allied public organizations and associations of the former Union of Soviet Unions was adopted by the relevant authorities. The People's Deputies of Matthew and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and by a majority of votes decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the draft law of the People's Deputies of Matveyev. The main argument in favour of this decision was that my draft, as I have already reported, proposed a judicial procedure for determining the subjects of property rights, and the Cabinet of Ministers envisaged that this would be done by the Cabinet of Ministers on the submissions of the inter-ministerial commission. In the view of the members of the Committee and the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the decisions of Governments may not be deemed to be objective, as it is an interested party to a possible dispute over the property. Once again, I would also like to inform the people's deputies that the Committee has received the appeal of some of the regional councils of trade unions, in particular the Hmelnicki, Chernovitsa, which express support for my bill. With regard to the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, we believe that they can be taken into account in the preparation of a second-reading bill. The relevant draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was introduced by the members of the Committee and distributed to you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u204	Thank you. Any questions, dear fellows? Please sign in, please, 5 minutes on the question. Please turn on the board. National Deputy Yeshchenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u205	Fucking Communist faction. Volodymyr Josephovich, you said that the Church trade unions have addressed the committee to you personally. Yes, indeed, and I have been approached by the trade unions of our Churches on the issue of supporting your bill. Would you please tell me, however, that the unions can hope that their rights will be protected by this law?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u206	Absolutely. That is why we are behind this bill, and it is still envisaged that any party claiming property should have no advantage, except those provided for by law. If the property belonged to the WCSPS and the trade union claimed the property, it would, of course, have priority in acquiring or acquiring the property. That is why we would like this bill to be adopted, which provides for a judicial solution to this issue, so that the Government does not have an advantage over the social organizations that we have formed and operate in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u207	National MP Matvienkov, European Choice Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u208	Thank you. Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Vladimir, well, I think you're already wise in life experience and you probably know that it's fair to share, practically, impossible, especially in a situation like this. But I am still asking you a question about the mechanism of approach that we have approached. How does a Ukrainian citizen who was in a public organization without legal status in Ukraine differ from a Ukrainian citizen who is a member of the same organization with legal status in Ukraine? Why such an approach? Because if we follow the logic of the one that is being discussed today, we have been involved in the process of establishing the main foundations - buildings, buildings, all Ukrainian citizens, even those who were not part of those organizations, all of which have been done. That's why someone decided today that that's how the partition should be done. I'm not saying that I have a prepared recipe for how to do this, but I think your approach is purely conditional, just to try to get out of this legal conflict, but again it does not have an honest distribution, so to speak, in proportion to the investments that have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u209	Well, you're absolutely right, we can only dream of justice when people have no need at all, that's when it's fair. Justice best exists in the cemetery of the dead. You're absolutely right about that. But trying to bring justice is still necessary. Today, the status of this property, the legal basis for becoming the owner of this property, is not defined by law at all and there is no body that determines it. The Cabinet of Ministers did not comply with the Supreme Council's decree in 1994; it did not define the mechanism for this, well, a legislative definition, that is, before the adoption of the law, it did not define the mechanism, but how it should be done, so we propose that we go through the courts. If, indeed, the one who was a member of the construction union who had a central authority in Moscow but had a holiday home there on the same Black Sea coast, back to the South Bank of Crimea, he has the right under this law to this property, and today in the same system he has no right whatsoever. And this property is passed on to anyone, sold to anyone without the reparation of this public organization that we have today. We have today the central committee of the Ukrainian Union of Shipbuilding Workers. And he's got to be the owner. And that can be done by means of a law that we will adopt with you. Another way to restore the rights of those members of the trade union you were talking about and the members of the social organizations you were talking about is that and what it differs from the fact that it was there from the coal trade union where the CD was here in Ukraine, otherwise it is simply not possible. And this is consistent with the Constitution, because we are talking about that change in ownership and recognition of ownership is determined by law, not by a decree, not by a decree, not by a government decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u210	Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko's faction. I'm asking you to have a little discussion there for half a ton below, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u211	Dear reporter, I would like, first of all, to be really necessary before any law on this matter is passed, you know what? Inventory. Do we know what property is left that is not? Why it was automatically passed on to state-owned industries for 2 billion dollars. A bracelet, but again, who did the valuation of this property? How was it transmitted? What's the status now? And would it not, in your opinion, be more faithful, as in Lithuania: first to carry out accounting, inventory of all property, and later to apply the law? Although I say again that he is in any case, this law has come with some delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u212	Well, you know, we're late for inventory, if you don't mind. Some sites have already changed owners several times. Therefore, the inventory had to be carried out in the 92nd year, when we gained independence and when it was possible to do so. But those who came to power were interested in the murky waters, including the leadership of trade unions, while trying to accept as much as possible even what did not belong to them. You are therefore absolutely right, the inventory will have to be made, but on the basis of the claims that public organizations that have been formed in Ukraine today will submit to resolve their property issues. property disputes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u213	Thank you, Vladimir Josephovich, time is up. Thank you. He's a state man. Huh? No, it's time, red, you see. You'll be speaking, I understand. Please, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economics and European Integration Vladimir Leonidovich Prin. Please report very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u214	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Taking advantage of Vladimir Josephovich's detailed history of this issue, I would like to stop only at certain moments and fundamental differences that exist between the two bills prepared by the People's MP Matthews and the government. First of all, I would like to give two figures that according to the State Department in 1991, at the end of 1991, there were about 60 republican and regional organizational structures with or without legal status, and there were more than 2,000 sanatoriums, holiday houses, tourist complexes, social and educational establishments, small and large enterprises. Regrettably, the Supreme Council’s decree of April 10, 1992, mentioned here by Vladimir Josephovich, was not implemented because it provided for the transfer of this property to the knowledge of the State Property Fund, and the transfer mechanism was not defined, and unfortunately, it remained unfulfilled. I want to stop because both the government bill and the draft prepared by the National MP are practically written in one term. I'd like to stop at two points of principle. First. Not significantly different in the preamble and in the second paragraph of article 1, it is proposed to remove from the definition of the term "generally-unioned social groups" those organizations that had institutional structures in Ukraine with the right of a legal person and separate property. And they're coming out of the scope of this law -- the property of former republican and regional social organizations, which, as of August 24, 1991, had no institutional structures in Ukraine with the right of a legal person. This is particularly the case with Ukrprofrad and the former DOSAAF. In our view, this narrowing of the bill is not going to be entirely correct, and I'm just going to give a few examples that, based on the decisions of the authorities of the regional and child enterprises of Ukrproftura and Ukrprofession, the second body of the tourist complex Carpathian Stars, Kosov was sold. The Third Corps of the Jaremčan healing complex "Hutzulščina". A lot of trouble and stuff. On the basis of the property of the Custody Hospitals of Truscavec, a closed stock company called Truscaveckurt is formed into a statutory fund that not only includes the property of health workers but also the wells of healing water. Needs an immediate settlement of property issues in the area of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of sanatorium and health complexes of former state-owned public organizations. On the basis of the property of a number of such objects, farm societies have been formed, and they have been the founders of business activities and public organizations of the Russian Federation. This is especially true of those in the resort area. The Tavria and Prometheus sanatoriums owned by the nuclear energy and RSR industry. And by the way, we had this call from the national deputies about this health care facility. So there's actually a free alienation of the property of a sanatorium, which is owned by Ukraine. The second question of principle. That the definition of property rights in Ukraine’s territory of the property of public, union, and former Soviet Union organizations rely solely on the judicial authorities at the location. the person who owns it. Literally half a minute. Who owns this property, not the interdeputy commission, as stipulated in the government bill. The question here was absolutely correct, and who would determine this property, how much of this property, what is its value? And in our view, the definition in the bill of conduct, the execution of this law solely through the courts, it can, on the one hand, cause groundless trials, and on the other hand, it may simply not solve the issue, because we will not own such information. Taking into account what has been said, we would ask that we adopt a government bill in the first reading. And when we're working on two bills, we're going to find absolutely, and I think we're going to find agreement with two bills, both the bill of government and the bill of the people's MP. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the Secretary of State? Please sign in. Five minutes. Let's take a look at the board. Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine. You don't? There's a miner.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u216	Your Honor, according to your bill, this is a question. First. Why don't you agree that there is a court of law to decide the issue in dispute? After all, well, it's not a function of the Cabinet of Ministers to be an arbitrator if there's more than one organization to claim property. That's the first question. And the second question. There are parties that existed before the revolution. Are they supposed to be returned to these public organizations, these parties? [[in the order of the joke]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u217	Thank you for asking. First. The government does not deny that the issue in the government bill is not denied that the issue is settled in court. But I've been paying attention to that, and there were earlier questions to the previous well-respected reporter, what are we going to define this property? So the government bill proposes to create an interdepartmental commission. We'll figure out a list of this property, its value, who owns it. Then, if necessary, the matter will be decided in court. Regarding your second question, this question is already, you know, resolved by a corresponding decision of the Supreme Council back in 1991.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u218	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of SDPU, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u219	Thank you. I have a question for you, Volodymyr Leonidovich, as to the Secretary of State, and it is conceptual in nature, because it concerns the harmonization of the legislation of Ukraine's former republics of the Soviet Union. What's the point? Today, of the 131 billion dollars owed to people by savings, it is known that they ended up in Russia in 01.01.91. To this day, Moscow has not accepted our proposals regarding the approach to internal debt, the service of internal debt, and the proposals for the distribution of assets to the Soviet Union. Please tell me if these negotiations are continuing. And the second. Have such negotiations been conducted in this regard regarding our bill? Would this bill not be in the name of the bill itself but without further consequences?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u220	Thank you. I wanted to, first. You're absolutely right that, indeed, at 01.01.92, the savings account account accounted for 132 billion debt to Ukrainian citizens. I think it's a very painful, very acute question, and it's in every country of the former Soviet Union that's decided differently. But we have created a suitable, you know, working group, including a working group, Including with the people's deputies and the questions gradually very -- I agree with you -- very much the war is going on, but it's going to be resolved gradually. As for the assets of the former Union, you mean. I also said the assets of our environmental banks, including O. Bank, that's a question, too, and I even know it's on the order of the day in our work. This is the bill that Vladimir Josephovich Matthew reported today, and I report that only property is involved. The property that was located in Ukraine, and now, because it's not solved, unfortunately, there are processes that can be, here they absolutely say, irreversible. And we can just lose that property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u221	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u222	Dear reporter! I'll ask you the same question. You know, you've already said that a commission that has what will be created? Do you want to count the property that's left? Invent him? I mean, what's he supposed to do? But on the other hand, do you know what functions the state has? This possession of this property or is this property transferred for some, I don't know, underground underground operation from one hand to another, then to the third, in the fourth? It was at every turn. I mean, how does this interdisciplinary commission that's going to be created have the ability to inventory property, because we first have to know what's left in Ukraine, and then think about who, how it's going to come back. Because I'm talking about, I call it 2 billion dollars, that's $2 billion. That is, over 13 to 2.5 billion -- over 13 billion dollars in government property. What is the situation? How it was when it was transmitted and so on. This is a serious matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u223	Thank you. You practically answered mine. on your question as to what the government bill is proposing so that we can determine the list of this property, which one has, what is its value. I just want to give you an example like this. We've had several Presidential orders, several orders to refer to the People's Deputies, the Supreme Council, the Head of the Supreme Council regarding the property of the Sanatorium in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Unfortunately, I've been working at the Ministry of Economics for over a year and a half, and it's a question that comes up from time to time, unfortunately, we've only been able to solve the issues, just two sanatoriums that are now there. And if you were there, for example, I was recently, a lot of very former rooms are just in a very pitiful state or just committed to some left hand. So that's why this bill we're proposing to create, first to determine the list of this property, and then, if necessary, to really have to go to court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u224	Valentina Petrovna Seminouk, please, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u225	Semenyuk, Soccer faction. I will speak and say, but, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please pass on the word Shibk Vitali Jakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u226	Vitaly Shibko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u227	Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I understand that we are discussing the draft law today, but I would still like to know what is being done under this law. Do you have any numbers today that you can call inventory numbers, how much is left of the property today, and how many have been stretched out and who has stretched. Do you know that today there are virtually no sanatoriums in the Truscaveca that belonged to them today in the Crimea of these sanitariums, that is, today we are talking about property that is already private. And what can we do with this law if we adopt this law?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u228	Thank you for asking. At the beginning of my speech in my report to you, I named these figures, which were at the beginning of independence and which were in the territory of Ukraine. In particular, I can’t say how many objects are left in public property and how much they cost today. And that's our bill. Yes, it's too late! It's absolutely right here that they can ask questions, and on the Supreme Council committee it's the question that it's late for a decision. Unfortunately, though, we were not able to pass the law in the previous compositions of the Supreme Council, and the 1992 Supreme Council ruling of April 10 was unfortunately not implemented. And it's these two of our bills that are meant to figure out and find an opportunity to return to the state of property that belongs to the State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u229	I thank you, too, Vladimir Leonidovich, for your time, please sit down. Let's move on to the discussion. Shall we discuss it, dear fellows? Well, come on, how long do we take to talk? Give me 10 minutes, yeah? We have so many desirable ones. Please, Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u230	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Colleagues! Voters! The issue under consideration, though seemingly narrow, is actually principled for many regions, especially for the depressed ones, such as Carnations. What are we talking about? In fact, it's about the share of a network of diverse socio-cultural institutions. In one area alone, these are, in particular, 10 occupational and inter-economic sanatoriums, 12 tourist complexes, 2 cultural buildings, 2 vocational training centres with hotels, 2 sports and health bases, 4 children's health camps, an international youth camp "Verkhovina", and a half dozen schools and other institutions of the Society, supporting the defence of Ukraine with branches in all areas, we'll add the premises of the Knowledge Society, the Red Cross, as well as other social organizations. Similar unique institutions created by the Soviet authorities at the expense of citizens, as stressed here, and their integration with the support of the State in each region. Their real value is just hard to appreciate, and it's because the hair part to them is so much attention and, let's just say, there's a danger over them. Outside, everything is explained by financial relevance, especially with regard to the social institutions of enterprises and trade unions. What's really going on? Another attempt is being made by the State Property Fund to recognise the ownership of trade unions and other public organizations as state-owned and to be able to manage it in violation of Ukrainian legislation. This is how government structures try to implement a bill through Parliament that grossly violates the property rights of public organisations and, at the conclusion of the Chief Expert Office of the Supreme Council, requires substantial work. It is not hard to imagine whose hands will eventually be filled with professional sanatoriums, tourist complexes, children’s camps, sports arenas, that is, the adoption of the Kabmin bill. Thousands of employees of these facilities will be able to fill the ranks of the unemployed after the inevitable adoption, and then, after some time, bribes, humiliations on cabal conditions will again be applied to work in the same facilities. But there will be enormous losses in the fields of education, culture, recreation, self - interest, and morality, since public organizations have recently done a great deal of useful work and have performed extremely important functions. Thus, by accident both the Zacarpathic district government and other social organizations, the labor groups are calling on us to avoid any further abuse of their objects. Please support tomorrow's vote in the first reading of Bill 1093, submitted by Vladimir Josephovich, and let's not let ourselves become another evil, and so many in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u231	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u232	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about? It's about three billion dollars worth of property or sixteen and a half billion dollars. This is the property that went to the trade unions. I'll remind you that it was 178 health care workers, 120 tours, gyms, campings, 39 restaurants, 87 dining rooms, 152 cafes, 107 clubs, cinemas, 3,000 units of car transport and so on. And now the earth is gone. I'll remind you, and just so you know, the cost of one hundred lands today in Odessa sanitariums is 15,000 U.S. dollars in Crimea sanitariums. From 10,000 to 15,000 U.S. dollars. And we're talking about what we're in fortifying right now, just like it is, as proposed by the court. I'll remind you what was suggested in the last summons. Three draft laws were proposed. What is different about today’s laws? None of them were accepted at the time. What is the difference today? The government suggests that he will share everything, and the national deputy Matthew says that if there is a dispute, the court will divide. Yes! But between whom? We will not allow anyone who actually had to present his external requirements to us. That's not in the bill. I'm absolutely behind the fact that the Matthews Bill is better, but this has to be added, because historically, back in 1933, when the Narcomate of Social Security was eliminated by a decree of the Council of People's Commissioners, all property was transferred to the unions. Then 1966, 1968, 1956. I will quote you in 1960, the decision of the Council of Ministers of the U.S.R.R.: "Obligate the Ministry of Health to transfer by May 1, 1960 to the Ukrainian Republican Council of Trade Unions all active public health centres - 92 houses of rest, 8 sanatoriums of boarding houses and so on." Here's the question. So this is all about state property, which is what it's all about. What our neighbours, who are already entering Europe, have already done, is not only in the Council of Europe. NATO and everyone has already done so. Now, Lithuania, it first asked questions about the inventory of the union's assets, a few President's errands. We haven't made any investments, whether we get it or not, from this government, I'm asking. This needs to be done, and we need to do it urgently. Next. Lithuania has offered all the unions, not just officially, who are entitled to goodies. Moreover, a declaration has been signed by all the leaders of the unions, I conclude, a declaration has been signed. Where it was clearly stated that all trade unions should be taken into account in order to have justice among the professions as well. That's why I'm in favour of enacting the law in Matthew's first reading, not the government version, but this bill also needs to provide for inventory and distribution between the unions that were created after 91 years. Because they were legally unable to create it because it was state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u233	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u234	And Stoyan is conscious of something that is not present today. I don't know. It's not my question, he's not a member of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u235	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine, prepare Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u236	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Jovkovsky, Lvivščina Dear colleagues! When I went to the rostrum, I somehow mentioned the words of the merry Polishman Eze Lez, who said, "If someone holds a large bribe, this hand in their fists can't be squeezed." This refers to the problem that we are discussing with you today. I don't know her very well as the head of the National Writer Association, because the leadership of the Writer Association has been on this topic for several years now, which, by the way, is still invisible. It would seem that the Writers' Association falls out of this line that we're talking about today, because there was a Community of Writers of the State, which was immediately subject to the law that all of this goes to the government, and then it's passed on to creative associations. So I'll tell you that during the transfer from the hands of our honest, noble Ukrainian government, about 30 percent of the property went missing, immediately disappeared, the Shivo Bookstore went missing, if you know, at the beginning of the Red Army, the Chinese, lost acres of land in Crimea on the shore of the sea. Here Jura gave old data, Carmazin said 15,000 acres. Jurokka, already 20,000 acres [20,000 ha] of land on the seashore, is in Koktebel, where the creative building of the writers is located. Because of this, of course, we are discussing this issue when, frankly, honourable colleagues remained simply to clean up this property. Everything else has been distributed by our famous unions, which, today, may be the most painful issue that really needs to be resolved to the end. Because today, because these parking companies represent themselves, believe me, I can't imagine. Who are they protecting? I feel like they're protecting just the union elite and no one else in the world. This is a conservative organization, some sort of seminal rudimentary rudimentary, meaning, yesterday, half-day, which is subject to reform, but it now possesses colossal property that is not earned by the professional leaders, but by the bees of the people, both in prisons and prisons, and for what reason. That's what we should be paying attention to today. Because of this, I say again, the question is very important, and there's huge shadow money going around. In Crimea, they already know, uh, around this sanatorium, something runs with papals, so tomorrow-after tomorrow it's all going to go cheap. We're dealing with the simplest question, it's, say, take it, build a house for the president in the group, there was a little sanatorium next to it, called "Sinevere," and it was quickly and quickly added to it. These are issues that we are quick to resolve. Because of this, my distinguished colleagues don't think it's a question, let's say it's just Stoyan or someone else. That's a national question. And I'm totally joining Carmazin, that's a great idea, I have to write an inventory into this version of the law. We need to get it all out in the light. There are still colossal complexes to which they are already walking, and old men with rough money are piling up. Let's make this amendment: do the inventory, listen to this inventory so the Ukrainian people know about it, and then, indeed, we can go through the courts. But I'm against handing it over to the government. Officials are going to rob it all up again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u237	Valentina Seminouk, from the control committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u238	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! I remember 1997, and I was standing on this stand, and I was talking about the need to adopt this bill. At that time, I was passing through the Cabinet of Ministers. Sadly, then, such a political situation was that the bill was not adopted. Perhaps he was not accepted from two situations. We had to stretch as fast as we could, and then, God forbid, we're gonna find and pick. Therefore, the Supreme Council today needs to be clearly defined. The bill, which is prepared by Matthew, is much better, I think we need to adopt it in the first reading. At the same time, I want to say that we should not just be populist about it, and before we read again, we should clearly limit, more faithfully, what my previous speakers have said, which should clearly distinguish property. What is provided for by the Law on Trade, Their Rights and Guarantees for Their Activities should be clearly defined. [[Article 34]] Matthew’s Law refers to article 5. The other one. We need to make a clear distinction between public organizations — hunters and fishermen, enterprises or, more faithfully, former pioneer camps that were used in collective farming. According to the Law on the Characteristics of Privatization in the Agribusiness Complex, they have been transferred to use. But unfortunately, we have a lot of confusion about agriculture, ministries and intelligence that they've been handed over to use, and today, in bankruptcy and tax evasion, mainly because of the so-called tax administration, these objects are described and implemented as property. And for us at a meeting of the Special Control Commission, we're even going to be looking at two of these questions tomorrow, where just the property of collective farms, businesses that are transferred to use, is simply described and implemented either by tax or by specialty. So I think the supplement to be written in article 1 on the definition of property rights that is decided should be clearly defined by the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to bring to justice. Question three. It must be borne in mind that the public organizations that I have called should be invited to inventory, and this supplement should be in article 3, where the Cabinet of Ministers should clearly be obliged to identify and dispose of the assets that have been transferred to use. I'm gonna say it again. Because the Supreme Council’s decree provided for use only. Third. This must be seen with regard to property that was of general significance and is now widely transferred to the holding companies. It also needs to be done with proper inventory and transferred, put it in a register that should be kept and kept in the State Property Fund and in the Cabinet of Ministers. The comments and suggestions will be sent from the commission to the Matthews project and will be accepted on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u239	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The time for consideration is exhausted. The solution. No, we've been looking at it for 15 minutes. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. If you have a wish, let's consider another bill. Is there no objection? We did it then. No, time's up. 15 minutes, we've been looking at it, we've been talking about it. Time's up. Will there be no objection to considering this question? Next question. Draft law on the legal status of Ukrainians abroad. So 15 minutes were taken to the performance! National MP, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u240	What am I talking about? Or we have to finish this, all the speeches are heard. Or, if this is to begin, it should be done in full form according to the Rules in order to have a report, questions and statements on the matter. We have to figure this out.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-15-m0.u241	Okay. Thank you. Dear colleagues! We have concluded our consideration of the matter. This is a draft law on the definition of property rights in the territory of Ukraine for the property of the former Soviet Union. [[organizations]] We discussed it on a full-time basis. 15 minutes on the show, we've got five left, it's written down, we can't make it. Therefore, we have concluded our consideration of the matter, and we will make decisions on the day of the vote. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Since the 15th hour, parliamentary hearings on the progress of reforms and measures to improve the situation in the country. Please participate in parliamentary hearings. Tomorrow is the day of the decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thanks for the job.
