ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please take your jobs. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:01:20]] Registered -411 A total of 411 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Jeremeyev Igor Mironović, who is only 35 years old. Let us welcome him and wish him health and success in his work. [[Applause]] Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with the Rules today, are taking decisions by the Supreme Council. You have a meeting schedule for Thursday. Out of procedure, please, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u2	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to ask you to support the proposal for inclusion in the agenda and urgent consideration of two issues today on the day of the vote. This is the first time. Registration number 3316, the Supreme Council’s ruling on the fact that the United States authorities claim that Ukraine is a member of the coalition that is now leading military, aggressive action in Iraq, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And we demand that the minister of foreign affairs be urgently summoned to give an explanation in connection with this situation. Because we have to take you into account, Americans are using banned cluster bombs today. Americans are destroying military hospitals today, suffering civilians. That's the first one. And second, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I am very much asking to include and vote now in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the registration bill 3302. In view of these circumstances, the decision that the battalion was taking to the region was overturned. I'm asking you to put this to a vote. And I hope that our Ukraine and the presidential factions that voted for Ukraine being at war with Iraq today. And in connection with the declaration of higher and higher spiritual persons, namely, the Islamic movement declared to be a holy Jihad, against those nations and nations that are now at war with Iraq. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich, put this question to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u3	Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u4	Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs! I don't have my card anywhere, so I have to go out to this rostrum. I want to contact you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We have the question of the first agenda not only concerns the head of the administration of the region of Chernigiv, but also Szczerbany. So what I want you to do is explain why we're not discussing the issue of the Scrap? And the second. I apologize to everyone for this look I have, but the point is that this is what we want to demonstrate to all the Ukrainian people today is our delegation from Hong Kong and Kuchma, and we need to warn them about how to protect ourselves from the plague, from that antitype pneumonia? So I ask you to view this as a problem of protecting the interests of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u5	Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u7	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u8	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you. Please, since the election law has been passed over several times. It's a matter of principle. It stands in order today, and you can even no longer agree with the hall, even more loyally without a vote to place it earlier. I ask you to ask him after considering the personnel issues. This is absolutely necessary. It is part of the structure of political reform proposed by the President, etc. And I think it would be perfectly normal for both the deputies and the citizens of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u9	Taras Chernobyl, please. No! No! All of it! Dear colleagues! I want to give you some explanations. Regarding Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek’s proposals. If you insist, I would ask the Secretariat to give these documents. I'll put it to a vote. As for the National Deputy of Szczerban and the People's Deputy of Melniczuk. The People's Deputy Melniczuk wrote an application for voluntary credentials, and we duly withdrew the lawsuit from the court and examined the regulatory committee. As for the National Deputy of Szczerbań, it will be the third time today at 3 p.m. If I'm not mistaken, the meetings and, apparently, the final of the Supreme Council's decision to appoint him. It's about the law of choice. We had a slightly different agreement on the conciliation board that we would be working today until we voted on all of the schedule issues. So, dear colleagues, listen to the offer of the Conciliation Council. So that we can continue to work today until all the questions on the schedule of meetings are considered. I'm voting on this proposal and I'm asking you to support it. [[10:07:29]] For a hundred and Let's get down to business on schedule. I don't understand. Please accumulate all the questions that the whole faction is about to speak up or something.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u10	In this situation, I'd like to stress why the Amnesty Act is not included, it was discussed on the committee, the first reading was adopted, and I don't see it in the agenda today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u11	Please find out and provide me with information on this matter. What you want, I can't understand, today is vote day. Pavlovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u12	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to draw attention to this particular feature. Yesterday, a law was included in the list of issues for consideration. We have not considered this law, it has not been considered today, but is now included in the vote. So I want to keep a close eye on the Secretariat that we've considered not. On the other hand, I would like to support and reinforce the offer of the Wasteland, which needs to go back to the regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u13	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Taren.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u14	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. I would very much like, friends, to be quieter, please support the proposal made by Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz and consider, first of all, the law on elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, I ask you to turn off the microphone. I say, let's work, not look for something that likes or dislikes. We'll work, we'll vote everything. I've made a proposal and I'm going to put once again to the vote that let's work, that we declare it, so that the entire schedule of meetings can be considered, not to take a break for what reasons. Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u16	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I suggest you and the hall seek compromise. If the MPs have consulted and asked you about the issue of putting the First Elections Act and asking questions in the package. First the Elections and Amendments Act, and the vote until we consider the issue. I think you'll get the required number of votes in the room. Why don't you go to the meeting and we'll start working instead of fighting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Please take your seats. The faction of the People's Democratic Party, please, please, let's start working. Once again, dear colleagues, I would like to put a motion to the vote. Since all the questions are equally relevant, it is the same that we continue the meetings today until the end of the four - scheduled debate. I ask you to vote on this proposal, to demonstrate your desire to work. [[10:11:06]] For 199 I'm asking you to put on board a list of factions that voted as. A draft decree to terminate the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy, Melniczuk, has been announced for consideration. Please, the chairman of the committee to the rostrum is invited to attend to Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u18	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council has made an application for a permanent suspension of the mandate of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Melniczuk Valentin Vasilovich, who was elected as National Deputy in the 1-seat constituency No. 206 of Chernigiv. Yesterday, the committee considered the application and proposed to adopt a decision that had been tabled by members of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, namely the suspension of the term of office of the national deputy of the Ukraine of Melniczuk Valentin Vasilovich in connection with his appointment as Head of the Chernigian District Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the national deputy of the Ukraine of Melniczuk. This is document 3329. [[10:12:53]] For 364 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pay attention and listen carefully. I told you that there was a meeting twice that had not been attended by Scherbán Vladimir Petrovich. Today, at 3 p.m., a third court hearing was reported. There you go. Puts to the vote a draft Ordinance on the granting of exemption Alexander Bondar of the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine Yesterday we discussed this issue for almost two hours. So, your honors, I'd like your attention. I put to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to grant consent to the release of Alexander Bondar from office as Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. This is document number 3266. Please vote. [[10:14:09]] For 216 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, we are going to consider the issues under the heading "Inclusion in the Order of the Day and Decision-making." A draft law on the decision of the President of Ukraine to allow the armed forces of other states in Ukraine in 2003 to participate in multinational military training is being announced for consideration. I'm betting on the vote to put the matter in order of the day. Please vote. [[10:15:07]] For 245 Decision taken. The factions, please. Chief of General Staff, please come to the rostrum. Dear colleagues! The committee proposes this order: for the report, up to five minutes, for the answer to the reporter's question, 15 minutes, for the co-report, 5 minutes, discussion and decision-making, 20 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u20	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! The realities of today and the prospects for further development of the security situation in the world, especially in European space, are convincing evidence of the need for further development and strengthening our cooperation with neighbouring countries and other states in the area of security and defence. The organization and implementation of international cooperation between the Ukrainian Armed Forces are carried out taking into account defined national priorities in the field. Thus, the state decisions on intensifying Ukraine's cooperation with the North Atlantic Treaty Organizations allow the Ministry to concentrate its efforts on solving the most pressing problems, tasks, and processes for the construction of Ukraine's future Armed Forces. By this time, the international cooperation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces has a wide and diverse spectrum, covering 71 countries worldwide, as well as a number of leading international security institutions, including the United Nations Organization, the Organization for the Safety of Cooperation in Europe, the European Union, and the SND States. Multinational military training is one of the forms of international military co-operation in Ukraine and is, in essence, complex measures that allow, in conditions as close as possible to reality, to verify fully the level of military training of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, their interaction with the forces of other states to carry out tasks in various peace-keeping operations. In general, the Ukrainian Armed Forces have been participating in multinational military training in the framework and spirit of the Partnership for Peace program since 1994. And in 1996, Ukraine was the first country to produce such teachings. According to the 2003 plan for international cooperation, the troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces are scheduled to participate in 18 multinational military trainings, 7 of which are envisaged to be conducted in the territory of our State: 4 at the Yavoriv Training Center, 2 at the Shirokololanian Training Centre, and 1 at the Zitomir Training Center. By giving a comprehensive assessment of the issue of multinational education in the territory of our nation, three main factors that determine their relevance and usefulness are noteworthy. The first is supporting the process of reform and development of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the participation of troops and representatives of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in joint military training, enabling them to draw on the experience of partner countries in the reform of their own armed forces, to support the ability and readiness of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to participate in peace-keeping operations. Providing humanitarian aid, search and rescue operations carried out under the auspices of the United Nations, the OSCE. To improve the martial arts of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Grow and develop military infrastructure, military ranges, material and technical bases. Developing a partnership between the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other partner countries. Financial and economic aspects. Of course, the choice of type and extent of learning is not the least taken into account by the factor of the greatest financial and economic relevance. This has already become a good axiom that all multinational education has such a positive financial balance for Ukraine as is meant. First. Ukrainian businesses have a good opportunity to offer and actually provide their services and supplies to representatives of the armed forces of other nations. So this is about a fairly serious financial coming into the national economy. As an example, in the past year, more than 500,000 euros were spent by representatives of the foreign armed forces to secure their division. It's different. In carrying out multilateral training activities, the cost of their participants is improved not only by appropriate military but also by civilian objects. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of this, please approve the Ukrainian Act on the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the armed forces of other states to Ukraine in 2003 to participate in multinational military training, which has been put forward for your consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u21	Please sign up for the questions. Please give a list of the names of the national deputies. Victor Terrence, Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u22	Victor Terrence, Yulia Tymoshenko block. Please tell me, what forces, the international powers of which States themselves are planning to join in joint training with the Armed Forces of Ukraine? What kind of nations?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u23	Thank you for asking. As I have already reported, the Ukrainian Armed Forces will participate in eighteen studies, seven of which will be conducted in Ukraine. "Involved in learning, the teaching of a cooperative." - United States, Germany, Turkey, Italy, Poland, Macedonia, Belgium, Hungary, Norway, the Netherlands, Denmark, Luxembourg, Moldova, Georgia, Ukraine. Appropriately, other teachings are smaller than the amount of them and are less involved in the individual composition. Yes, the Cossack Step, it's tripartite, involving the Polish Armed Forces, the British Armed Forces, the Ukrainian Armed Forces. As well as the joint training of the French Army Tank Brigade and the joint training of the Italian Air Force. During the training, Black Sea Military Cooperation Group Blackifor plans to include representatives of the Armed Forces of Bulgaria, Romania, Turkey, Georgia, Ukraine and Russia. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u24	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u25	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Alexander Ivanovic, how do you explain that, throughout the course of the exercise in Ukraine, with representatives of the Armed Forces of other countries, there are ongoing exercises with those countries that are now members of the anti-Iraq coalition? Should you understand that all these exercises are being conducted only to truly create a single military unit that will respond to the aggressive aspirations of the United States of America? There is no secret to anyone that the United States of America is the dominant political and military force in this coalition. Does this mean that today you are asking for the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the Armed Forces of Ukraine continue to operate in the context of a completely different State, in this case the United States of America?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u26	I'm ready to answer that. Not all members of the Anglo-American Coalition Armed Forces are involved in the operation "Freedom of Iraq". It's different. These studies primarily address the question of conducting a peace-keeping operation under the Partnership for Peace programme. In these trainings, we prepare our headquarters in the course of command-and-staff training, command-and-teacher games, we prepare our units. This enables us to take on advanced arms experience, as in reform issues, the creation of forward-looking structures of our Armed Forces, and to compare the level at which our units are now in comparison with other states of the world. Third. If we are able to gain good experience free of charge rather than work through trial and error, we need to conduct this training and experience it. Today, we have the opportunity to do so during our studies. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u27	Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u28	Please pass the word Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u29	Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u30	Your Honor, General! I'm interested in two questions. First. When the Armed Forces of Ukraine are trained in the United States to study, to get used to fighting in their territory. For the protection of peace, it's obvious. And the second question. As you know, Parliament, the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted, condemned the war aggressor in Iraq. What will our armed forces, funded by the Ukrainian budget, be like when they train under the patronage of the same aggressor?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u31	I'm reporting. This year, the program “Partnership for Peace” planned the participation of representatives and units of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in 18 studies. 7 studies to be conducted in Ukraine. Out of these 7 studies, one study on the Ministry of Emergency Situations program and 11 studies outside Ukraine. Teaching. is being held in Germany, training “Si Breez 2003” is being carried out in the Mediterranean. Fellowship 2003 is being conducted in Poland, Klinova Ark is being taught in Lithuania, Bryz 2003 is taking place in Bulgaria, the Black Sea Partnership is being conducted in Turkey, and 2003 is being conducted in Britain. The Black Sea Group of Maritime Cooperation. is conducted in the territory of Bulgaria, a joint training of the U.S. Air Force and U.S. Air Force units in Italy. The second question I was asked. The Ukrainian Armed Forces for today are neither supporting nor carrying out any tasks in the Anglo-American Coalition during its aggression against Iraq. The report is complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u32	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u33	Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have a very tense program today, over 150 questions. If we work in this mode, we won't look at them. Therefore, I suggest that we consider the additional issues involved in a simplified procedure or move them to another day. If you would like to have a word with me, please pass it on to your colleague, Yavorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u34	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u35	I thank Eugene the Gunner. Dear Mr. General, some of these teachings will take place in the territory of my district, in the Jaborovsky largest European range. I have a very specific question for you. What we're making deals with other armies and they're paying for using our range is very good. But we've completely forgotten about things like people living around this polygon. I have a specific question for you. Do you make these agreements, these budgets, to compensate for environmental damage and health damage? In the end, you have to get back to that question. Because even the Turks in this war in Iraq make huge money, and we have nothing but damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u36	Environmental damage compensation issues are being raised during conferences to conduct such training. After all the training conducted last year, 75 percent of the total compensation was made. The rest of the documents are agreed upon and compensation will come to the Ukrainian Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u37	Basil Nadrag, People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u38	Tell me, please, how do you assess the situation that, with the adoption of this law, Ukraine is clearly beginning to move in a specific direction? So here's the question: how do you think we're going to be judged today by our law in the same Arab world as today, let's say, the main topic that everyone is discussing? Because the war in Iraq has made many things for people to look more closely, people and States. Is it not possible that this law will affect us in such a way that in that part of the world we will begin to be perceived, to say so gently, not as we should have been, or as we would have liked? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u39	Thank you for asking. I would like to emphasize once again that Ukraine has been participating in multinational studies since 1994. And since 1996, such training has been carried out with the participation of foreign troops in the Ukrainian Armed Forces in Ukraine since 1996. This has been beneficial because in 10 years, the formed structures of the Armed Forces, the defined numbers, the established state program, are a promising model of the Armed Forces. We've seen the level of preparation of other countries, we know specific boundaries and specific problems. By today's adoption of the law, we endorse the President's decision to allow the armed forces of other states into Ukraine, which will continue to interact and cooperate with the Partnership for Peace programme. There's nothing new, there's a continuation of the task.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u40	Michael Dobkin, group of Democratic Initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u41	Mikhail Dobkin, "Democratic Initiatives", 174 constituency, town of Harikov. General, I have a question for you. We all know that our Armed Forces are not adequately funded. We all know that the lack of funds has led to our technology, unfortunately, not meeting many of the standards that were still in the Soviet Union. In this regard, please tell me whether the leadership of the Armed Forces can guarantee the security of our citizens who may be directly or indirectly affected by these exercises and of our citizens who live in the nearby territory where the exercises will take place? How we can guarantee them the safety of their lives and the lives of their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u42	Thank you. The first half of the question. The technology and the weapons, first of all, are the aerobic units that will carry out the tasks of our ranges together, as well as the mechanized, or land components. Today, and so it has been for eleven years, in the course of planned military training in the ground troops, there are routine and battalion tactical training. The battalion should conduct two battalion tactical trainings each year. On a scale, these trainings and these training courses ensure that tasks are carried out fully, with safety standards. The units that will be involved from foreign nations in Ukraine, in training at the military force ranges, are conducting studies with us on the scope of the mouth, battery, battalion, division. The level is not planned anymore. To this day, we are able to provide security for these tasks.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u43	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u44	Dear reporter, first of all, you're so thoughtful and slow to answer, it seems like we're in the army as fine as you're sure to feel on the rostrum. And that's not really the case, and you know it. And you have to figure out: Ukraine is a neutral state, is it outside or is it entering a bloc and is it not neutral? I'd like to see that next to the Ukrainian battalion was, for example, the Swiss Chemical Protection Battalion, and so on, that is to say, the Ukrainian military doctrine, whether we are a neutral state or not. Whether we needed this neutral status to destroy the army, to destroy the nuclear and third potential in the world, to destroy everything that we had the most valuable thing left after the former Soviet Union, we needed neutral status. And as soon as the threat of the ring scandal arose, the army immediately began to use it as a fig leaf to cover up some of the unnecessary things of today’s President. So I want you to be honest here, not hiding behind the numbers, and the answer is, Ukraine is a neutral state, and it's off-limits, or is it going to go into a block? Is she coming in now? joint learning, are they written as those who will prepare Ukraine for joining NATO? Is the rest determined whether or not to join NATO in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u45	The Armed Forces of Ukraine work, reform, improve, and create new structures within the legal field. There is a concept of national security and a military doctrine adopted by the Supreme Council, and it defines Ukraine as a non-block state. The report is complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u46	Sit down, Alexander Ivanovich. Time's up, please sit down. Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, head of the National Defence and Security Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u47	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Our committee considered the draft law tabled by the President yesterday. In the course of the discussion, it was noted that the whole bill met the requirements of the form defined in the Ukrainian Act "On the Order of Entry into the Territory of Ukraine of the Armed Forces of Other States" was noted at one point in the course of the 2003 Cooperative Partner Training. Since it was only said that there would be military personnel, ships, and other military equipment from ten nations, the nations were not noted. We were given appropriate explanations. In discussing this issue, it was found that there was no single position on the committee; it was a political issue. Therefore, the committee brought him into discussion and decision-making by the Supreme Council. Attention was drawn, in particular, to one fundamental point. How much in this situation, when the United States and the United Kingdom have solved aggression against the sovereign State of Iraq, is appropriate and is in accordance with the national interests of Ukraine, the admission of troops of these nations and others who are now taking part in this aggression. Therefore, the committee is also bringing this bill to your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, five minutes to ask, please sign up. On the board, please. Basil Nadrag, People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u49	Please tell me how clearly the law regulates the following point: That the Armed Forces or parts of the Armed Forces of other States residing in the territory of Ukraine participating in activities, including exercises, will have no weapons, equipment that may pose a threat to the environment, to a population that cannot carry out the pollution of the Azov Sea and the Black Sea, some radioactive emissions and all that is called the environmental component of the population in the actions, including the training of the Armed Forces? Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u50	These issues have been clearly regulated by the law on the manner in which units of other States have been admitted to Ukraine, and the issue has been addressed, and there will be no submarines.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u51	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u52	Ginsburg, 161 constituency, Communist faction. Dear Grigory Korneyevich, I have two questions. One question concerns today's issue that we are considering. There is such information that the peaceful population living in the area of the Yavoriv region is beginning to experience a very strong disease today. That's the information. Please tell me what the reason is, or is it related to these military teachings? And the second question that will build the entire population of Ukraine today. This is the presence of our battalion in Kuwait. Given that such information has been made known to our country as one of the countries that are fighting Iraq, why is it that today, including the Supreme Council, the President does not deny this information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u53	On the first question, Olga Petrovna. Yesterday, as you recall, the Supreme Council of Ukraine supported the parliamentary request of the Ukrainian MP Yavorivski precisely on the threat to the health of the people in the exercise being carried out at the Yavoriv region. I believe that the mandate of the Supreme Council will be fulfilled and clarified. With regard to your second question. Your second question, you remember that I raised this question on Tuesday. A statement was made by the official representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that there was no formal appeal to the American side to declare our wish to be a party to the anti-Iraq coalition in Ukraine. This was done at the level of the Spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There are two questions: Were informal contacts or were they not? Secondly, the American Ambassador referred to the fact that the appeals had been made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Presidential Administration, and no explanation and answers had been given by the representatives of the Presidential Administration. It was known that I had made a proposal and a draft regulation had been introduced to hear the representatives of those structures and then to come to conclusions. This is what I can say on this issue. I answer in the language that the deputy addressed me. And I'm not breaking the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u54	Igor Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u55	Please give the floor to MP Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u56	People's MP Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u57	Grigory Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, Ukrainian People's Party, faction "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter, distinguished colleagues. I believe that we should not politicize this issue once and for all, but consider it in accordance with the current Act on the Order of Allowance and Conditions of residing in the Armed Forces of Other States in Ukraine. That is the point of the committee’s consideration. And as I recall, there was a committee meeting yesterday, the quorum was on the committee. Most of the members of the committee present expressed their support for the agreement. And this is the committee's decision, I think it's fixed in our protocol. That's why I'm once again taking my fellow Ukrainian national deputies to the National Affairs Committee. security and defence have given a positive conclusion regarding the admission of subdivisions of other States to our territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u58	Ask questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u59	In this regard, I would like to say that the votes have been divided and that it has been decided to refer the decision to the Supreme Council. It's about politicization. The main issue in considering such bills is the appropriateness of such decisions to the national interests of Ukraine. And the debate on this side of the matter is always of a political nature, I think. And it's impossible to get around politics here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u60	Thank you. Time's up. There are 21 more on the subject. Please calm down. Cibenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u61	Thank you, the Communist faction, the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons, Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear reporter and reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Please listen to my question. At the beginning of this year, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Veterans, Disabled Persons heard information from the Court of Auditors about payments made annually by May 9, to participants in hostilities. And in the course of this hearing, there was some pretty interesting information. It is that between 1996 and 2002, the Ministry of Defence issued 15,000 926. At the same time, 13 thousand,765 people officially participated in peacekeeping operations — that is, the difference between 2,000 and 200 people.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u62	Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u63	The question is, we're told that the difference is that people lost their licenses, they got duplicated. But the problem is different. I would like to inform you that, on February 4, 1999, Vadim Dolganov, a prominent presidential apologist, received a group of ballet and ensemble artists.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u64	Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u65	Unfortunately, we didn't have the data. If we had them, we would have responded accordingly, we wouldn't have gone through it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u66	Dear colleagues! I ask you to sign up for this discussion. Can I see the board, 15 minutes, on the board, please? National Deputy Razwadowski, Deminicatives Group. Prepare the Bull.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u67	Vladimir Mihajlovich, please give the floor to the national MP Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u68	National MP Mikhailo Dobkin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u69	Your Honor, distinguished national MPs! I believe that the issue of the safety of our citizens during these exercises must be put first. There's been a lot of talk here about environmental issues, and there's been a lot of talk about how much our army is going to cost, what we're going to get, what we're not going to get from this. But most importantly, the security of our citizens who may be affected by these exercises is not put first. I therefore believe that the leadership of our country's armed forces must be fully assured that the actions of our country's military and armed forces, other States, will not be affected by any civilian population during these exercises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u70	National Deputy Buiko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u71	Bull, the Communist faction. Please pass the word to the national deputy of the Humir.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u72	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u73	Thank you. I'll be very brief. What's this all about? All, including the General Staff of Ukraine, through their leader, recognize that the United States of America and the United Kingdom have committed aggression against an independent State. Today we are discussing whether we, Ukraine, together with the States of the aggressors, should prepare for peacekeeping actions. To so-called peacekeeping actions. And a large part of Parliament, I think, is going to respond positively to this question, "Yes, we do!".. Dear colleagues! But it's just a crime before our people, see what's happening today. The United States of America is saying that Ukraine is involved in aggression. Yeah? Yes. The Arab world is saying that Ukraine is involved in aggression, so both conflicting parties consider us to be accomplices to aggression. And what does Ukraine say, what is Ukraine's position? Its position is immeasurable for domestic consumption, for the people. We say no, we do not participate in aggression. For external consumption, for the United States of America, says, yes, we are helping you in this aggression. And today, if we decide that our troops will share with the aggressors in the so-called peacekeeping actions and, indeed, in the preparation of new aggressions in Iran, Korea, and in the future, Ukraine. Then we'll show the whole world the face, I don't speak to the Presidential Authority, there's all that's clear, the face of the Supreme Council, the face of most of the Supreme Council as an aggressor's aide. If we want to, I don't think so. We must therefore say today firmly, as long as the candidates for participation with Ukraine are the aggressors, we will not participate in any action with these international bandits. We will vote against that. Every honest person must vote against being with the robbers and murderers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u74	Sergey Sobolev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u75	Please give the word to Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u76	Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u77	Dear colleagues! I think everyone in this room has some military rank, but apparently they've all been acquired and promoted in the service as military supplies. It took me two years to be in the army, and I realized it wasn't a technological army. An army that doesn't participate in undeveloped learning that actually serves either as a free labour force or to march, stupid salary marching. We have the opportunity, together with other nations, to conduct normal, normal, our statutes, which are used throughout the world, military training. Military training and you could see it on the list that was provided, not for aggression, but primarily for ordinary peacekeeping operations, which are increasingly affected by the major mass of military structures. And get us into some political aberration and tell stories that we are. What we're going to do in our territory is we're going to be able to teach our soldiers and military science officers that we're supporting some kind of aggression that seems to me to be a lot of naked politics. Sometimes it seems to me in this room that I'm not in the Supreme Council, but in the institution of noble girls, where the words "army," "war," "military action," "peacemaking operations," and so on. Then let's disband the army and not bend and make fools of ourselves. The army is designed to take risks, to do certain special things that will not be done by civilians. The army is designed to respond to painful points both outside the state and to the state policy plan that we have here in the Supreme Council -- to participate in peacekeeping operations, humane operations, etc. And those trainings that are now planned to be carried out are a tremendous opportunity for our army to be not the army that bombards the house in Barovara, the plane over the Black Sea, and so on, but an army that can act normally as a modern army. Some want to turn us into a country like Liechtenstein, Malta, or Andorra, or the Vatican. I think we should understand that we are a great European state. And we have a certain responsibility both to the world and to the world before us. The world is responsible for helping us train our army and for conducting these trainings in our territory. Let's do our mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u78	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u79	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region May I give the floor to the National Deputy, Colonel Stephen Bulby?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u80	Stepan Bulba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u81	Thank you. Honorable national MPs, the Honourable Chairman, in making a decision about the Armed Forces, we should bear in mind that it should contribute to the basic function of the Armed Forces, which they must carry out under the Constitution. That is, how it will affect the security of our nation, the security of the state by our armed forces. All the talk that our Armed Forces as a result of these military trainings will receive some military training, and so on, is nothing worth it if we don't understand, and what will be the pay for all these habits and so on? And so I'd like to draw your attention to this point, which is written by the second on teaching, by Partner 2003. Look carefully: there is a type of training -- training of the naval forces and landing of the Marine Corps. For the people of the military, it is clear what will have to be added here - under the conditions of the Black Sea coast of Ukraine. We don't really understand what it's like to pay for all the skills that we're going to provide for our military and computer games and so on. I cannot agree with those who have to pay for our safety. I draw your attention to the fact that Sweden, at the top of World War II, has ensured the security of its own territory and of its own people, and that it is a neutral country. For Ukraine now, neutrality, non-blocking is the motivation and only way to ensure our security, the security of our state and the conditions that lie ahead. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u82	Alexander Kuzmuk, Faction Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and Labour Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! Yesterday, the National Security and Defence Committee largely supported the bill. It's clear to everyone that the time of his consideration is difficult -- there's a war going on in the world, and there's a perfectly legitimate claim to those who started it. But, dear colleagues, the armed forces cannot be isolated, isolated from their neighbors, isolated from their partners in the Partnership for Peace Program. This will lead us to avoid developing. Yes, serious questions have been raised by the deputies today, and security measures have been taken. But the Chief of General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine thoroughly reported that this is what the General Staff, the Armed Forces, are working on today. I'm drawing your attention to a wide list of those invited to our training and a wide range of countries where we're going to be conducting, where we're going to be present. There's parities, there's benefits to our side. We are more present, and we are more involved, and we are more involved, both on the earth and at sea and in the air. I'd like to ask you, I'm asking you, to reject other political claims today, and to take care of it for my own Armed Forces. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u84	Please, the people's deputy of the gmir. The Communist faction. He was given the word by others, so I can do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u85	Vladimir Mihajlovich, be kind, Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u86	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, respected by our constituents, the Communist faction declares that we will vote against this decision on the basis of the following specific circumstances. First. The holding of such so-called joint exercises in preparation for the implementation of peacekeeping missions today does not solve the main problem. Ensuring sufficient capacity for Ukraine, resolving internal problems. This is, above all, the fundamental issue that needs to be addressed today, the financing issues, the compilation, scientific and technological developments, the procurement of technology, the harmonization of policies in the geopolitical interests of Ukraine in the harmonization of action within the CIS and much more. With regard to the moral aspect of this decision, which peacekeeping actions can be discussed today, when American aircraft in Baghdad today bomb and destroy peaceful facilities, destroyed the maternity home, affected people, doctors and nurses. Many who have received medical treatment in these institutions have been injured. As a result of the raids, five civilian vehicles were burned alive in cars and drivers were burned alive. What peacekeeping actions can be discussed when Americans today use weapons and technology prohibited by the world community. In this case, cluster bombs and use are involved, including in Yugoslavia, of depleted uranium shells. The Americans, Britain today, are demonstrating to the world that they are not only the leading Powers, but are not the ones who resort to military aggression against the civilian population against specific States in the struggle for their economic interests. Therefore, as a faction of communists, we categorically oppose such exercises when today we have unleashed military action against the civilian population of Iraq and there is a fire of the Middle East conflict. We also call on the Communists to “Our Ukraine”, which voted in favour of sending a battalion to Iraq, in fact, on the basis of a treaty that has been voted to ratify Kuwait. Like the pro-President factions who voted to send our boys there to perform and protect the interests of American capital and American aggressors. I therefore call upon all members of the people to reflect on this and, pending the resolution or conclusion of the military conflict in the Middle East, do not support such a decision to conduct joint exercises with the aggressors today, which destroy world security, that is, with the United States of America, England and those who have supported them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u88	Yes, Your Honor, the matter has been considered. Attention, please. We're going to vote now. May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on the draft law on the approval of the President of Ukraine's decision to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2003 for participation in multinational military training. Please vote. [[11:05:17]] For 294 Decision taken. The factions, please. Yeah, one minute back, I haven't been able to read it yet. "Our Ukraine" - 74 "for"; Communists - 0; Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs "Trug Ukraine" - 43; "Regions of Ukraine" - 39; Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine - 36; "Democratic Initiatives" - 7; "European Choice" - 18; Socialist Party of Ukraine - 0; "People's Government" - 18; Yulia Block Timoshenko - 6; Agrarian Party - 14; NDP - 16; "National Choice" - 14; Non-Frakational - 9. [[united]] Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the order of deployment of troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other states is under review. The reporter is the Chief of General Staff. Please, Alexander Ivanovich Zatinaiko. Dear colleagues, the offer to consider it in this way is three minutes for the report, a report also up to three minutes and a discussion over ten minutes. I would like to report immediately to the Chief of General Staff how I know that a coordinated project, a coordinated project, is to be reported. Please. Oh, dear colleagues, yes, I'm sorry. I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the order in which troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces are sent to other states. Please vote. [[11:07:21]] For 311 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u89	Honourable National Deputies, draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the order of deployment of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other states, have been developed in order to expand the list of grounds for deployment of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other States. In addition to military and peacekeeping tasks, the Ukrainian Armed Forces can be deployed to protect civilians from radiation, chemical, biological hazards, eliminate the consequences of the use of weapons of mass impression and other humanitarian tasks as defined in article 61 of the Additional Protocol to the Geneva Convention of 12 August 1949. The reference in the bill to article 61 of the named Additional Protocol, by the way, ratified in Ukraine in 1989, was made because, first of all, this clearly defined list of the humanitarian tasks of the world community known and understood. It's different. The list of civilian defence tasks specified in the Additional Protocol differs somewhat from those mentioned in article 2 of the Ukrainian Civil Defence Act. Furthermore, the adoption of the proposed law would allow for the strengthening of social protection for members of the Ukrainian military contingent, which would have positive political, social and legal consequences for Ukraine. Working yesterday at the National Security and Defence Committee, the Ministry of Defence fully supported the National Security and Defence Committee's proposal and made an addition to the law in accordance with a bill that had been drafted at the National Security and Defence Committee to provide humanitarian assistance to the civilian population. The report was completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u90	Sign up, five minutes to ask. Please put your names on the board. National Deputy Carenko, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u91	Please give the word to Hare Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u92	Vladimir Hare. Please, Vladimir Hare. There's no Hare? Vladimir Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u93	Dear reporter! I have two questions. First. What countries will be addressed by the Ukrainian Armed Forces? And the second question. How is the financing of this participation, that is, the financial side of our participation in these matters determined? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u94	Dear National Deputies! The Supreme Council's decision to send troops to the countries is well understood. So today we've been working on additions to the bill to make sure that the unit that is in Kuwait today is in case the units have to do localization, exploration, degassing, deactivation of toxic substances, so that these units have the status of a participant in combat. Financing. On this issue, you have been told on numerous occasions that funding is being made at the expense of the State Budget and subsequent compensation. The report is complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u95	Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u96	Please pass on the word Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u97	Stepan Bulba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u98	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear reporter! Now you are explaining the need to adopt this bill in order to ensure the social protection of military personnel who are already involved in this adventure. Tell me, who, when deciding on the direction of the battalion, thought that they were not socially protected? And the second question. Civil defense is carried out by departments and structures of the Ministry of Emergency Situations. Why in this case they gave the prerogative, they gave the right to carry out these functions of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, which carry out the tasks, including the 19th individual battalion of RCB protection, they are socially protected, but they are not part of the fighting, as are the 4th individual repair-renewable battalion located in Sierra Leone, as well as the 20th individual helicopter unit located in Sierra Leone, as well as other units operating in support of peace. Following the dispatch of the Department of Emergency Situations, to this day the 19th Battalion of Defense is the unit that is equipped with modern technology, that is the unit that has experts, including participants in the fighting and participants in the liquidation of the Chernobyl disaster. It's the unit that went through the battles. It's a unit that has concrete outcomes that can do tasks. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u99	National Deputy Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u100	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. I want a date for the honourable MPs on what. According to today’s legislation, the financing of military units headed abroad is carried out at the expense of the states where these units are headed. So what Ukraine is funding in Iraq today is a violation of the law. And that's why the Kabmin gave an urgent draft of this law, which says that funding could be from three sources: the country that's inviting it; the international organization; mixed and at the expense of Ukraine. And that's why I'm leading up to this. Was it not the draft law that was prepared, which involved this particular problem? I mean, wouldn't it be just at the expense of Ukraine? On account of the homeless officers?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u101	I'm reporting. There will be no flat-less officers, of course, because the 285 million that are allocated to the housing program will be fully used for the purpose. The financing of this battalion will be from the state budget with subsequent compensation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u102	I see. Peter Simonenko, instead of Stanislaw Gurenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u103	Dear reporter, I have a brief question. This bill provides, under certain circumstances, for those whom we have sent today to the countries of the Middle East, where aggression against the civilian population takes place. Compare them to those involved in the fighting. "Our Ukraine" and the presidential factions voted in favour of sending our boys there, but they said no one would take part in military operations and hostilities. So, as we understand then that you're headed there, I mean, "Our Ukraine" and the presidential factions sent our boys to war, and today you're saying we should compare them to the participants in the fighting. Even so, our boys will be involved in battle or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u104	The 19th battalion of RCB-protection is in position to wait, to be ready to carry out radiation-bacteriological, chemical exploration tasks, and to locate the stalls that will be. I mean, it's just a predictive calculation. If terrorist acts are carried out and chemical fugases are detonated accordingly, chemical contamination will be appropriate. The second question. Not all the battalion will be counted as involved in the fighting. The addition to the law is accepted, but a part of the fighting will be counted by that unit, that special composition that will directly carry out this task. Before that, this unit will be prepared, given orders, this could be a platoon, this could be a company, this could be a separation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u105	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. Alexander Ivanovich, do you say so, and the proposal for a coherent project that you are supporting by the committee? Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u106	Yes, we support the offer of a profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u107	And you propose to vote in favour of this editorial proposed by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u108	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u109	Thank you, sit down, please. The replica. Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u110	Some of our colleagues are constantly laughing at the faction "Our Ukraine" in the context of sending the battalion to Kuwait, twisting the facts and the bills themselves, twisting the mission of our battalion and constantly slandering. I would like very much to have people whom I think I am now with the opposition that I respect, to carry out my narrow, narrow political tasks or related to the next presidential election, or to perform certain international obligations to Russia or to the Saddam regime, or to financial obligations, or to others.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u111	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u112	such a disgrace to themselves and others and they stopped it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u113	All right, turn off the microphone. Please, Taras Blackwall. Dear colleagues, I ask you to respect each other. Please, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov. Let's work in a constructive way, keep working, actually. Please, Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u114	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I wanted to make a few remarks. First. Changes are proposed in the basic law that works. But the need for change is due to the specific situation surrounding our battalion’s deployment to the State of Iraq. And now in the media they're interpreting the adoption of this law in a way that means that the Supreme Council, by its status, has consecrated Ukraine's accession to the anti-Iraq coalition. That's not true. I'd like to make a decisive point. This is about the social protection of our boys who went there or at will. I don't know if it's my choice. That's another question. They need to be protected socially. But the introduction and consideration of this issue have once again been confirmed as bonnets, as politically unbalanced, how the legal question of the decision to approve, the decision to direct our battalion was not legally resolved. Social protection was not taken care of, but changes to the law were needed. The basis for carrying out the humanitarian mission was not provided by law; we are already doing so. I think it's a witness to the great mess in the state at all levels that are involved in making and making such decisions. That was to be said. The ministry’s management and the minister reported that the government agreed with the proposals proposed by the committee. So the committee came up with this proposal to bring to your attention a draft law that you have, where all the points are clearly defined. Once again, I would like to say that the status of participants in hostilities can only be granted to those military personnel who are directly involved in eliminating the consequences of the use of weapons of mass destruction. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee's proposals are understandable. The report was, so we have every reason to put an agreed draft to the vote. If there's no objection, I'm voting on the basis of the draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian law on the order of deployment of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other states, number 3261-D, which also agrees with the government. Please vote. [[11:22:34]] For 305 Decision taken. I'm voting on the adoption of this bill as a whole, as Act No. 3261-D. Please vote. [[11:22:58]] For 307 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of draft laws amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff on Sugar Beets and Peas Act. Out of procedure, please. One minute, cancel the vote. Out of procedure, please. Peter Simonenko, please, then Tolstoy, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u116	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, Simonenko, the Communist faction. I'd like to ask you right now if we're looking at the social protection issues of the military, which were directed not to fight for the interests of the people of Ukraine, to consider the proposal that I made this morning. It's going to be the same problem in the package. It means that 3316 draft decree on hearing the information of the Foreign Minister, representatives of the President's administration, is meant, on Friday, to hear whether there has been an official, unofficial appeal to the United States leadership regarding the numbering of Ukraine as a member of this so-called coalition. And the second project is 3302, which has to do with the annulment of the decree, the law to which the military formations of Ukraine were directed in this dangerous region. Thank you. I'm asking you to look at this right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u117	Peter Mikolaiovich, I just put his chapter into the agenda and the decision-making process. We're going now, and in this chapter we're going to vote on this question. Well, we're going to come to this chapter and I'm going to vote today. We're going to break everything. Right now, the National MP of Bespalov is making his proposal, insisting on voting, and then we won't be able to work. Please. Tolstoy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u118	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I would like to ask everyone to return to the vote on the issue of the Head of the Maintenance Fund, because there is a presidential statement and a statement. And it's not clear why we didn't look at the issue in the same mode, moving away from the application first. A petition corresponding to several factions by Volodymyr Mikhailovich was transmitted. And the second. We are approaching a break today, and we may have a repeat of that Thursday of the past when most of the issues have not been considered. So the request then to focus on the issues that need to be addressed in the second, third reading, all the more so that we did not vote in favour of continuing work after 16 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, I do have a statement from seven factions. Well, I said we'd vote, I said there's your statement, Your Honorable Fellow Bespalley, I said. So let's say, I suggest, we now, there's a chapter on inclusion in the agenda, we'll look, we'll come, then we'll vote on the proposal made by the Tolstoy people's deputy and we'll move on. Dear colleagues, we are now discussing issues that are under consideration, further mobilize and consider. I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft laws amending the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian Customs Tariff for Seeds, Sugar beet and Peas. Integrating into the agenda. And I'd like you to come up to the rostrum, please. [[11:26:49]] For 312 Decision taken. So let's just keep it that way, we're going to be limited to what's going to report the position of the committee worked out, or we won't be able to make a decision. I invite National MP Tsuko to inform the proposals and we will now vote. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u120	Regarding the seeds of the beet, the committee supported. And with regard to peas, we haven't been able to consider it, but it's a factory seed, and we need it now. We had an exchange with Sergei Vasilevich Burjak, and the agrarians came along. We propose to support and accept it, both in first and second reading and in general today. Because we prohibit sugar beet seeds because we have production and we remove the restrictions on pea seeds to transport them. I propose a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u121	Two projects? Vasil Petrovich, say again what projects to vote on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u122	It is proposed to vote on 1316 projects, namely the introduction of an attorney's duty, to make it specific, i.e., a fixed amount of 22 euros; for the import of sugar beet. The Customs Council, the Agrarian Committee, the Finance Committee, supported the vote on first and second reading. And the second bill, 3135, they're on the same agenda, 3135 is proposed to support a zero bet on pea seed; we do have a problem with pea seeds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u123	Thank you. Have a seat. From the Committee of Europeans, please, Roman Zvaric, and we will now vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The European Integration Committee considered the bill to comply with European law. And I am forced to bring to the attention of the Ukrainian people's deputies that a change in the type and size of the import duty rate, as proposed in this bill, could lead to a re-examination of already agreed tariff positions between Ukraine and other importing countries that are members of the World Trade Organization. This, in turn, may lead to a delay in Ukraine’s entry into WTO. So the committee's decision is to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u125	Katerina Vaschuk, please be very quiet. Now let the agrarians say their word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u126	Dear colleagues! It's misinformation. First of all, it's a temporary measure. Secondly, you know that more than half of the crops have died. What can we do today? The barley will be sown late. Without peas, there will be a big problem, and after the seeds of sugar beets, we have to put an end to the shipment of such garbage that comes into Ukraine and then does not come down. This question has been studied very deeply, and we ask very much for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u127	Thank you. Vladimir Leschenko of the Agrarian Policy Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u128	Dear National Deputies! Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine The Agrarian Committee of the Supreme Council supports the adoption of both bills in both first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! I'm voting on the adoption of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. [[No. 1316]] This is a project by Svatkova, Alexenka, Yuhnowski. [[11:30:57]] For 326 326, decision taken. I'm voting on adoption as a whole as the law of this draft law under number 1316. Please vote. [[11:31:19]] For 340. Decision taken. The law is passed. I am voting for the adoption of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff at number 3135. It's about peas. Based on the base. And we're on. We've got two on. [[11:31:45]] For 349 We put it in the agenda because I said there were two laws. I'm voting on the whole draft of this law as a law. [[No. 3135]] [[11:32:09]] For 348 For 348, the law's passed. It's being announced. No, I'm sorry. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of a bill amending article 69 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2003 on the payment of debts to coal workers. Dusty, please, we'll be with the committee right away. [[11:32:42]] For 185 The decision is not taken. I'll put it to a vote, vote. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Act on Amendments to Article 69 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2003 on the Payment of Debt to Coal Workers. [[11:33:22]] For 240 Decision taken. Who will report? One, please. First Deputy Chairman of the Valérie Illrich Konovaluk Committee
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u130	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, this is 69 articles we're clarifying, because we had this problem that year, and in December you and I were taking some budget changes. This is about the enterprises that are now in lockdown, in Blood-Blood Construction. [[Is it closed?]] There is a provision for funding, but article 69 itself does not allow the treasury to finance these expenses now. So we insist, the committee voted unanimously to support both the Supreme Council and the whole to make changes in this article. And that's going to take away a lot of the tension that's in the mining teams right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, I would like to vote on the basis of the draft law amending article 69, please cancel the vote. Joseph of Viennese, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u132	Dear National Deputies! Today, there are about 20 bills on the Committee of Budgets that include amendments to the 2003 Budget Act. Can you imagine what we're going to do with this budget if we go that way?Oh, my God! So what I'm proposing is that I stay away from these spontaneous changes to the budget, and that I make some general, balanced projects that deal with some kind of narrow issue and the whole set of issues. Because if we go this way that we're going to make 40, 50, 70 budget changes over the course of the year, then there's absolutely no point in all of the procedures that are envisaged today at the adoption of the State Budget. And I wanted you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, as Head of the Supreme Council, to pay attention. Because the budget law is passed by the Cabinet of Ministers and then without introduction by the Cabinet of Ministers, we're just actually undoing the whole process of adopting the budget in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleague, I fully support you, we need to make some changes, but the law has voted for inclusion and we need to decide with the deputies. One against, for, that's how I understand Turmanov. And we're going to vote, it's already turning into a discussion. And Gurvo will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u134	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I understand that we need to make changes to the budget today. I want to tell you, as Konovaluk said, 61 articles have been introduced that have blocked it. Therefore, article 61 is being amended in a drafting manner. The money in the budget is approved by the 2003 budget. There is therefore a drafting amendment that we are asking today to support and vote. There's no need for extra funds. 18.5,000 miners have been blocked since last year, and we're on the same page today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u135	I see. Gurov will tell you. Guru, please. Not all at once, dear colleagues. I see Mikola Kravchenko raises his hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u136	Dear colleagues! As long as we make miners and separate miners. I believe it can be supported, but there should be other than mining and mining enterprises. It's the same thing, why we suddenly think of it as miners, not miners.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u137	Thank you. Mikola Kravchenko. Dear colleagues, not all at once, there will be a discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u138	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I think the Thurmans colleague has clearly and clearly explained the purpose of today's vote. There's an article, it's funded. Today, changes are needed to unlock this issue. I therefore ask all deputies not to take sides, to vote specifically on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u139	Matvienkov, please two arguments only.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, I will literally clarify two words. That's understandable. The issues raised are clear. You answer me one question, please. We passed a law on insurance, fund-building, accident insurance. Where does the whole country pay money today to get us out of the collision that happened with the miners? We are increasing these funds, creating an incomprehensible structure with 35 per cent of the fund being funded. We need to figure out how he works. No, we're still taking money from the budget and now we're paying off the debt to miners on the other hand. So if you'll excuse me, let's either deal with the fund, or let's make money from the budget to pay off the miners' debt, or let's give it to all the industries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u141	I would like to answer that question. This is not about the allocation of funds from the Social Insurance Fund for occupational accidents. There is budget funding under the coal programme and it provides for repayment of debt on closed-off enterprises. We have only legally prevented the Treasury from financing these costs. We want to clarify it in order to be able to finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u142	Basil Hara, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u143	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I want to explain that we are not talking about that much. We have a line in the budget: the commission of the accident insurance fund to allocate This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016. to settle regressive It is proposed to add, except for the mines that are closed because the budget provides for this money. But the lack of this language does not allow the Treasury to allocate the funds to the closing mines. Oh, oh, oh, oh, This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016. will be paid from the social insurance of the fund from an accident at work. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u144	Basil Nadrag. Asadchev later. Then the school and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, we often contact our radio audiences. I'll let myself do what one of the politicians in this room does. Dear listeners, I would very much like, as a result of this vote, to announce the outcome of the vote on factions and groups. Because when it comes to politics that wants to play with miners and call them under their banners, more than enough. And when it comes to specific people sitting in a mine, we have doubts about you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u146	Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u147	Dear friends, my colleague Hara said almost everything right. This is essentially a technical amendment that relates to the cash execution of the budget by treasury. It doesn't affect the balance or the budget or the additional resources, it's all set up. So there's a proposal to vote, and it's not worth spending that much time on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u148	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u149	I would like to point out that we don't have the right to accept such things without discussion, so let's jump. Nevertheless, the question of miners would have to be discussed, and it was worth discussing and making a reasoned decision. So once again, I want to emphasize. Four hundred million were owed to disabled miners. 175 thousand disabled sailors, that's 310 thousand working in the field. Here we want to convert the feathers from one pocket to another. And from the Social Insurance Fund, if they're working now, that's all. I'd like to emphasize that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u150	I'm betting on a vote on adoption on the basis of the draft law on amendment to article 69, on the law of Ukraine on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2003. This is document number 3134.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee unanimously supported this decision. Please be supportive. [[11:41:41]] For 342
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u152	Decision taken. I'm betting on a vote on the whole draft of this law, as Act No. 3134. [[11:42:03]] For 380 Copy that. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft decision on information to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "On compliance by the executive authorities with the requirements of legislation, on integrated spring-field work and on measures to ensure its implementation in preparation and harvesting in 2003. It is suggested that we listen to this question on May 21, 2003. We're voting for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:42:49]] For 371 Mikhailo Melniczuk, please. Let's vote, and if there's a complement, we'll discuss the addition. Mikhailo Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u153	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, in May, what kind of spring-field work can we talk about? If necessary, the date should be changed to at least the second decade in April of the month, or third decade. There's a spring-field job coming up. This question needs to be discussed immediately. I would suggest that the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine supports this issue if the date of consideration is changed to a second decade or a third decade at least in April of the month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u154	Yes, what other suggestions are there? I'm voting on the adoption as the basis of the draft document, the draft decision. [[11:44:07]] For 371 Decision taken. I'm voting on the proposal of National MP Melniczuk to listen to the information in the third decade of April. [[11:44:30.]] For 328 I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Decree as a whole as a decree, this is number 3304. [[11:44:53]] For 373 It's been decided. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of the Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the Future. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council we told you that this should be a group, there's a group of enthusiasts working on the problems of Ukraine's development prospects. And to that end, nothing is required. And the committee supports it. Please vote. [[11:45:39]] For 316 Decision taken. We're all thinking about the future. Dear colleagues, the offer was, so what can I do? I'm voting on the basis of draft regulation 3280. Please. Out of procedure, please, Lechchenka. Vladimir Lechchenko from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u155	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, it is not necessary to put such a question to the vote. We don't know what we're talking about, what the future is, and what we need to talk about today. So we don't have to vote for it, and the Communist faction won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u156	I understand, but there are, uh, respected colleagues, an explanatory note that clearly states everything. I think we should read it, agree or disagree with it. Please, Igor Raphaelovich on the rostrum. The head of the Committee on Regulatory Affairs, Valentin Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! At the Conciliation Council last Monday, Vladimir Mikhailovich and I spoke about the problem of activity, the organization of all temporary special and investigative committees. We already have 20 of them today, but... But only one temporary commission was reported to the Supreme Council today regarding the bankruptcy of the Bank of Ukraine. All the others are even those who have not chosen their heads so far, i.e. not determined with leadership, but each temporary commission from the Treasury of the Supreme Council and such a very poor person is pinching into pieces to create the necessary financial, material and technical possibilities of their work, that is, the premises, the cabinets, the cars, the connections, and so on. Dear colleagues! Come on!Oh, my God! What are we doing?Oh, my God! I'm asking you not to support this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u158	Yes, please. Igor Raphaelovich. Well, let's get this straight, then we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u159	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! On January 15-16, Helsinki held a round table of committee heads from science in 54 countries around the world. From the countries of the former Soviet Union, I was there. The Helsinki Declaration was adopted. The Helsinki Declaration urges the parliaments of all the world to organize each parliament, the so-called Committee of the Future, as it is in the parliaments of Sweden, and in the parliaments of Finland. The task of the Committee for the Future is to explore the innovative development of the State as the only possible prospect for the existence of the State and the competitiveness of its production in the external market. The future committee should establish appropriate contacts with other committees of the future. All of this is written in an explanatory note. However, my mistake is that I did not immediately ask you about the creation of a committee for the future in Ukraine. At first I thought we were going to make a temporary commission of the future that works, that we have gathered, as you can see, the best specialists in other different areas of production in Ukraine that exist in our parliament. This committee has to work, it has to create a strategy, then it goes to the committee of the future. If you want to vote for the future committee right now, I'll raise two hands. If you want to give us a test term for which we will show you how this committee is going to develop in the future, vote for a temporary commission for the future. That's what I'm saying. I, however, want to point out to the opponents that no one will be harmed by this commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u160	Vladimir Cherniak. Next Andrew School and we're done. Please, Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. All the committees that we've created so far have been committees on matters of the past, particularly the Commission of the Bank of Ukraine, other commissions. Today, for the first time, we are creating a commission for the future. Well, maybe we should add "from the light" of the future. And I think that a parliament that doesn't vote in favour of a committee for the future has no future, and a parliament that votes has a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u162	Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u163	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Ukrainian National Assembly I certainly respect the academics of Yukhnovsky and the initiatives that have been taken there, but you see, the Supreme Council is a serious legislative body, and to create a temporary commission of inquiry on the future of this. You either have to change the name of this commission, or you don't have to be bullied. At first I thought it was the first April joke, to tell you the truth. With all due respect for science, all due respect for the future and all due respect for the past. There's no word for "trace," there's just a "temporary commission." Okay. But I'm telling you again that we have no right to abuse a higher legislature, to overload it with the things it does in the context of existing committees. The science committee has to deal with these problems and work, develop our future innovation technologies, not create, I don't know, "smokers." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u164	Stanislaw Nikolainko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u165	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Science and Education Gennady Alexanderovich, I would like to ask the committee to make a statement to Peter Petrovich Toloczko, an academic. But I want to explain it to my colleague. People are good, so let's think a little bit more modern. This is not about any commission of inquiry. There's no "investigation" in the title. This is not about any additional costs, Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov. Yukhnowsky has an office today and has a car. And you don't need any extra expenses. It's about creating a commission that then organizes, preparing documents on a permanent commission for the future that will be engaged in innovative strategic directions for our nation's development. It's like the Swedes did, and Erickson, and so on. They made high - tech breakthroughs because of the role of scientists. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u166	Please, Samilick, and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u167	Dear Hennady Andriyovich and distinguished colleagues, I would like your attention. I want to tell you, however, that the Committee on Youth Policy will set up a Committee on the Future, a subcommittee on our committee, and we will resolve these issues. First. And the second. For the second time, the National Youth Support Program is being prepared. We want the future - make your suggestions. This will be the future of our nation. I ask you not to mock the future or the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u168	Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u169	Dear colleagues! I would ask you all to step away from such closer questions, I would not like to use that word, from populism in dealing with similar issues. The situation is extremely simple and understandable. If we are thinking about Ukraine’s perspective, we need to put someone in position to express our thoughts in the main concepts of the future. The government will change, we should not only be bound to the present moment, it will certainly change, it will be necessary to make this decision, and it will be necessary to put in place a number of intelligent people who will have the right to involve specialists in various fields of social life, science from production, and so forth. This is about creating an additional commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, let's finish the discussion, no one else will say anything new. One "yes", the other "against" -- we vote, we define ourselves in the hall. Turn the system on. [[11:55:42]] For 308. Decision taken. On the inclusion of the day-to-day draft decision on the conduct of voting during the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 15-16 and 17 April of this year. About getting into the daytime. Please. Peter Mikolaiovich, the motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u171	Dear Gennady Andreevich, distinguished colleagues! The Communist faction will vote against the inclusion in the order of the day of the project. Based on what we need to see and accept today after reviewing the position of individual factions, we need to make a decision on the project made by Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich. It is meant that we should amend the Rules and vote on this bill after each bill has been discussed. People’s deputies will then be conscious participants in the process and in the discussion and in the decision - making process. Then they will be thoroughly familiar with the content of the laws, and this will not be a mechanical vote but willful vote. And you don't have to turn the Supreme Council into a machine today to satisfy some of the clan ambitions that get involved in the Supreme Council's deliberations. So I urge you not to support such proposals today because they are against the Rules today, but to vote once again on Adam Martinyuk's proposal to amend the Rules of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u172	Please, Valentin Grigorovich Matthews.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u173	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Dear colleagues! I would like to support what Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko has just said. In fact, the project was implemented by the National MP Martinyuk and was supported by only 176 national deputies, as long as my memory does not change. And now we want to selectively apply this rule only when we hold plenary meetings on April 15, 16 and 17. Let us still be consistent. That's the first one. Secondly, I would like to point out that the draft decree on voting during the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council was held on 15, 16 and 17 April 2003 at a meeting of the Committee on Rules. There was no discussion of the vice-presidential ethics and organization of the work of the Supreme Council. Thank you. So I think we need to take it off today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u174	Please, Tolstoy Anatoly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u175	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished colleagues, I join the words of the People's Deputy Matthew and in relation to what is on the committee's agenda. has not been considered, I ask you not to consider this bill today and not to discuss this issue in general. Today, if we have to vote on something to work after 18 hours and then I think the Supreme Council will decide how to deal with this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u176	Okay. Let's move on. It is proposed to include in the agenda a draft decision on the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the application of schemes, tax evasion by enterprises in the Ivano-Frankov region. Let's vote, turn the system on. [[12:00:03]] For 104 The decision is not taken. A break of 30 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, please sit down. We'll continue our sessions. Please sit down. We're continuing the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down. Microphone Tsushko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u178	Thank you, Gennady Andreevich. Chush, the Socialist faction. Dear Gennady Andreevich, I speak on behalf of the Socialist faction and as the first deputy. Chairman of the Committee on Finance. I'm asking you to re-vote Order 3295 because our faction left in five minutes, we couldn't vote, even though we were in favour. And the initiator of our finance committee, we've initiated it because there's actually a deviation from tax and loss to 25 million, talks about 25 million bracelets. It is therefore necessary to establish this commission. I understand that we are saving money, but this commission is making money come in, not savings. Thank you. If possible, put it to the vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u179	This decision attracted about 110 votes. We have to work with factions, and then later let's put in 110 votes. It is proposed to include in the agenda a draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify the illegal activities of the DPA leader in the Lviv region. Dear colleagues, I have been approached by members of the factions of the "Regions of Ukraine", "Eurobiber," here are the names of the members of these factions. I'm asking you, let's face it with factions so that there's a proportional representation and then make suggestions. "Eurobiber." Verni Dubov approached me. He says he was mistakenly included here. Please, Valentin Grigorovich Matthews.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u180	Thank you. Gennadius Andriyovich, distinguished colleagues, of whom we speak. In order to address this issue, we first need to vote on the inclusion of it in the agenda of the session, and then we will consider all the other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u181	Turn the system on. [[12:36:37]] For-179 The decision is not taken. The factions. It is proposed to include in the order of the day a draft decree for the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify the situation in the grain and bread market in Ukraine. Turn on the system, we're voting. [[12:37:21]] For 256 Decision taken. It is based on a draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify the situation in the Ukrainian grain and bread market. Of the Shufrich procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u182	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. We have a request. In the commission that will now vote, we would like to change our representative of Nemirowski to the national deputy of Sigal on the fractional quota of the commission that follows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u183	Stanislaw Nikolainko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u184	Nikolainko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear Gennady Aleksandrovich, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will support, I propose to vote on the basis, but for the second time not to take the word, our faction instead of Vasil Tsushka, who is already overloaded in four commissions he is a member, we propose to include Melniczuk Mikhail Vasilovich. [[Vassila Petrovich]] He's in the faction leading the agrarian issues and he's the secretary, and we're proposing him as chairman of this commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u185	We're voting on the basis. [[12:39:10]] For 352 352. We're voting in general. Taking into account the comments made. And then he came up and he turned it on from the faction. We're voting in general. Change the vote. Please. Name it. The Yukhnov word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u186	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Respectful colleagues, considering that, in consultation with the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions, there are some changes in the composition of the commission. I'm going to read out who the MPs and the factions are delegating to the commission. The People's Authority Group, Gabrieluk Vasil Vasilovich, is proposed by the chairman of the commission. The Group of Democratic Initiatives is the National Deputy of the Holy. The European Choice Group is the national deputy of Kaletnik. The People's Choice Group is the People's Deputy of Topolo. The faction of the People's Democratic Party is the National Deputy of Suprun. The "Our Ukraine" faction is the People's Deputy Odynik. The faction of Ukraine is the National Deputy of Komar. The faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine, Tereshuk The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko - Sas The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine - Lechchenko The faction of the Political Party of Industrialists, the Entrepreneurs of Smooth Vasil Ivanovich. The faction of the Social Democratic Party is Sigal. [[united]] The Socialist Party faction is Melniczuk. And from the non-fractional he expressed the wish of Bespalov Oleg Pavlovich. In the light of these changes, vote. And from the initiators, the draft decree, the request to vote in favour of the commission of Gabrielus Vasilovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u187	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u188	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we voted in favour of a temporary commission of inquiry, our Socialist faction, to test the situation in the Ukrainian grain and bread market. And we're talking to the Ukrainian National Deputies, we're all in favour, but since we have such information that colleague Gabrieluk, as a whole, is a great professional and he's dealing with these problems, he can't objectively assess this situation, we're proposing an even greater professional, Melniczuk Mikhail Vasilovich, of our faction, who could lead this commission and together with Gabrieluk and other colleagues. Yes, the head of the farm, the head of the Paradise, 25 years is a very experienced farmer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, what are some more suggestions? Please, Bogdan Hubsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u190	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I wouldn't know who the bigger professional is, who's smaller. All national MPs have equal rights and are equally accountable to the electorate. And they're all exactly the same, there's no worse, there's no better. We proposed Gabrieluk we consider him to be an absolute expert in this matter, we can offer Melniczuk a substitute. Please put this question to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u191	Dear colleagues! I'm voting on Stanislav Nikolaynko's proposal to introduce Melniczuk Michael's chairman. It's a proposal, like making changes to a draft decision that's been adopted as a basis. [[12:43:30.]] For 204 The decision is not taken. Adam Martinyuk, please. Dear colleagues, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u192	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, Martinyuk faction of Communists. Vladimir Mikhailovich is a constitutional rule that says that the inclusion of 226 votes, the decision to create a commission, a personal composition, and so on, is sufficient for only 150 votes. So the decision is made because 204 votes are cast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u193	In principle, there are 150 votes. Please, Bogdan Hubsky, I ask the Legal Authority to clarify this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u194	I'm out of procedure. The first question was raised by Yukhnovsky, Gabrieluk the chairman of the commission, and the first one was placed in Melniczuk. So let's vote for Gabrieluk in order of submission. And Yukhnowsky made it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, as I was informed, the project was adopted as a basis. When accepted as a basis, they also voted for Gabrieluk. A second amendment was put to the vote. That's why I don't see any contradictions here. In view of the fact that the problem has now arisen and the decision regarding Melniczuk has not been made on the board. Let's do it this way. Now I'm going to ask the Legal Authority not to make any mistakes. And then we'll go back to that question. No objections? Let's put it off, and then we'll look at it. And I'm asking you to give me a legal opinion. Wait, not all of this right now, please, dear colleagues! Please. Andrew Schlell. Bogdan Hubsky later. Then Cushko. I'm just going to make a few suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u196	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The school of Andrew, the block of Julia Timoshenko. I propose that, beyond the faction's ability to vote on question 2330, this is the question of the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of verification of illegal activity in the area, I ask you to put this to the vote again. I think a commission like this, it's not going to hurt anybody, it's just going to help us figure out this difficult situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u197	Thank you. Bogdan Hubsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, the ruling was voted on the basis of more than 300 votes, and Gabrieluk was right to vote more than 300 votes. It must be put to the vote personally, as a whole. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u199	I asked, and we agreed to postpone. Now the judiciary will make a recommendation, Bogdan Volodymyrovich, and we will then vote in favour of this issue as a whole. Now, let us not find out what the relationship is. Pussy, national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u200	Vladimir Mihajlovich, I repeat, and please, let's vote on two orders. One of them is 3295 on Ivano-Frankovsky. This decision is made by the Committee on Finance and Banking. We apologize, our faction, the socialists, we went out just for five minutes to consult, when it was done, we didn't add 20 votes. And simply because of the lack of attention in the room, this commission is not voted on. And it's necessary. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union. The issue is that this money will not go into the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u201	Dear National Deputies! So let's get to the end of this chapter right now. which concerns inclusion in the agenda and decision-making, and then the offer of Tolstouchov and the faction group after Bondar's release, we vote. And then two questions about creating a commission, we'll also vote. That'll be fair. And now I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft decision "On the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the verification of the illegal activities of the Dnipropetrov District Prosecutor's Office." About getting into the daytime. [[12:48:05]] For-162 The decision is not taken. I'm putting to the vote, may I have your attention, distinguished national MPs. Here was a proposal made today by Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenka to include in the order of the day a draft decree and to accept it. Information about the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Ukrainian Presidential Administration regarding the statement by the President of Ukraine to the U.S. Ambassador in Ukraine regarding Ukraine's accession to the anti-Iraq coalition. I'm voting on the inclusion of this draft order in the agenda. [[12:48:47]] For 139 The decision is not taken. For reasons, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u202	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like once again to draw your attention to the fact that, on the side of the leadership of the United States of America, the President, the State Department, there are practically charges against the address of Ukraine that we have violated our State's non-block status with you. And for someone's information, we've been asked to name Ukraine among those countries that support this aggressive coalition that's leading military aggression in Iraq against the people of Iraq. Once again, I ask you to support this proposal and ask the Supreme Council to have a foreign minister, representatives of the Administration, perhaps a head or secretary of the National Security Council, present an answer. On behalf of whom? The president of the United States and the State Department claimed that they had asked Ukraine to consider it as a country of the coalition. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u203	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now a whole proposal to re-vote. I'll put it here when there's a vote we'll re-vote if there's insistence. I put to the vote, honourable colleagues, on the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to abolish the Ukrainian Supreme Council's decision of 20 March 2003 "On the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Approval of the President of Ukraine's Decision, on the dispatch of 19 separate battalions of radiation chemical and biological protection of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to the State of Kuwait to assist in protecting the civilian population of that State against the possible use of weapons of mass impressions and in addressing the possible consequences of the use of weapons of mass influence in the territory of the State of Kuwait." Change the vote. With the motive of Peter Simonenko. Well, let's take a vote and define the position. So let's turn this into a discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u204	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I have asked once again for reasons of vote to draw your attention to the new circumstances that the Presiding factions and "Our Ukraine" should have from you, who voted in favour of directing this battalion to change its position. First. The United States uses prohibited weapons. Tape bombs. They are destroying maternity homes today, they are suffering civilian populations, and under these conditions, when Ukraine is included under this direction, we are responsible to this coalition for all that is happening in the Middle East. I am deeply convinced that today we need to take this decision and recall what we have voted on, we mean, the pre-presidential factions and "Our Ukraine" by directing the Ukrainian battalion into the region of hostilities, and today, in connection with the statements made by the President of Ukraine, Ukraine is a warring party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u205	Taras Cranwell and we're going to vote now. Dear colleagues, there's a vote coming. There was one, there was a "for" offer, now we'll listen to another and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, for reasons of vote. Ukraine is not a member of the anti - Iraqi coalition, as if that is not what I would personally like to do. The Ukrainian battalion is located outside the war zone and in a completely different country, Iraq. Countries that did not support Iraq’s war, particularly the faction, Germany sent similar battalions. How much will we use these political associations and political speculations? There's a normal safe environment for our boys to do their jobs there. And if we'd listened to every stupid thing our President would say to the American President, we'd have to hang ourselves by now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u207	Mikola Rudzkowski. Well, then, someone alone, identify yourself as respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u208	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, the faction of the Socialists has strongly opposed the targeting of the battalions. And I was speaking from the rostrum of the Supreme Council and paying attention to you and the deputies. It turned out that the Head of the National Security Council had fooled the Hall and said that we would be like a peacekeeping contingent. The situation is now clear that the battalion is being deployed in the coalition. And in this situation it is necessary to consider and hear the true information from the minister of foreign affairs, for the whole world speaks, and the MPs do not know whether Ukraine has spoken or not. Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is a serious question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u209	Thank you. Please, Hennady Josephovich. Gennady Josephovich, I gave the floor for reasons because they were the authors of the bill. Please, Hennady Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. We're turning the Supreme Council into a discussion club. The decision was made. A new bill has now been introduced. Let's put it to a vote, let's not discuss, well, we don't have a common position. Peter Mikolaiovich, I went with you to the monument of Shevchenk, even to Lenin. You didn't see me at all. But I'm offering you, let's volunteer and go to Kuwait with you and see. I'd like you to take that position when we're in Afghanistan, the Soviet Union, instilling a war. That's when it had to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u211	Please, calm down. Please, Your Honor, I have not yet finished Hennadi Josephovich speaking on behalf of God. Simonek’s replica. And please don't name names and factions. I ask you to calm down, Your Honor. I'm on my way. Well, for God's sake, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u212	Simonenko, the Communist faction. First. In the person of the Widow of "Our Ukraine" today, she testified that she supported the military aggression of the United States and once again supported what was sent there to participate in the fighting against the people of Iraq. This is the first time. It's different. I want to state that we, the communists, are against war and under the conditions of an independent state, the sovereign state of Ukraine we insist that Ukraine adhere to earlier decisions on the state's non-blocking state. And I'm surprised that the former Foreign Minister, who has just claimed to be a sovereign Ukraine, is destroying and crushing the sovereignty of our state and the blockage of our state today. This causes, to put it mildly, to look at those.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u213	Thank you, turn off the microphone. A replica of the faction "Our Ukraine" Kirilenko. Dear colleagues! I ask you not to call me then, to speak plainly. I'm sorry about the problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u214	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! I would ask Peter Simonenko and the Communists to stop misinforming our voters about our Ukrainian position. "Our Ukraine" partially supported the function of the Ukrainian battalion, the humanitarian function in Kuwait, not the U.S. aggression against Iraq. This is the first time. Therefore, the gross misinterpretation of facts that has been going on all day today is a direct misinformation of our Ukraine's position. It's different. I would like the Communists to stop the practice of double standards. When the Russian Federation. It's a terrible cover-up. and so on by their bombers, they were silent in Parliament, and now that the aggression is taking place in Iraq, they talk about it every five minutes. We were both fighting the war then, so I'm against the war now. I would ask everyone to be as objective as possible, including a faction of Communists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u215	I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the bill number 3302. It will be endless! Let's get out of a healthy logic. Dear colleagues! I don't ever insult this side of you. Please don't press me. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of draft law 3302 on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 20 March 2003 on the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the approval of the decision of the President of Ukraine to send the 19th Special Battalion of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to the State of Kuwait to assist in the protection of the civilian population of that State against the possible use of weapons of mass injury and to eliminate the potential consequences of the use of weapons of mass injury in the territory of the State of Kuwait. [[12:58:28]] For 133 It's a faction for 133. I'll read it now. Your Honor, pay attention! "Our Ukraine" is 25. I'm reading who's in. Communists -60; industrialists and entrepreneurs and Trudova Ukraine -0; Ukraine -0; Ukraine -0; Ukraine -0; Ukraine’s Social-Democratic Party -0; Dminiciative -4; Evroviber -4. [[united]] I'm sorry. Ukrainian Socialist Party - 20; People's Government - 0; Yulia Block Timoshenko - 18; Agrarian Party - 0; NDP - 0; People's Choice - 0; non-fractional - 6. Well, it's a motive. I understand the Rules. Please, Simonenko, for the reasons of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u216	Simonenko, the Communist faction. This project has been introduced by us as a faction of communists, and we believe that this is primarily a draft law that seeks to protect the national interests of Ukraine and excludes the participation of our military forces in hostilities from the benefit of the people of Ukraine. Therefore, I am surprised to hear today that we are allegedly unwarrantedly saying, "Our Ukraine" - 80 people supported the President once again, confirming that they voted in Iraq for the war." Without now voting for this decision, you have testified that our Ukraine for the war in Iraq and for participating in the hostilities of our troops. And no other explanation can be accepted. This is against the national interests of the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u217	Klukkowski from Our Ukraine. Because everything is according to the Rules, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u218	I think that by saying the words "national interests of Ukraine" in the Ukrainian Parliament in Russian, that already means evidence of what national interests stand for. [[Applause]] I want to say that the "national interests of Ukraine" mean that we are against war, on the side of Western, not fanatically Muslim and authoritarian civilization. And so the position of those in our Ukraine who supported the direction not to Iraq, not to the front, but to Kuwait, not to the fighting part, and the parts of the radiation and chemical protection are correct and are in the national interest of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u219	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Please, calm down, they didn't call it, it was just "Our Ukraine." There are problems - meet two factions and find out the relationship, not in the session room. The National Deputy Bespalij insists on the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council's draft decision, which has been handed down to you, "On measures taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ensure parliamentary control over the targeted use of the 19th individual battalion of radio and chemical protection of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and possible threats to the life and health of military personnel, Ukrainian citizens in the State of Kuwait". I'm betting on the vote to put the matter in order of the day. Please determine by vote. [[13:02:01]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. Dear National Deputies, we have agreed with you that we will once again vote on those proposals that we insisted on. Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed that we will re-vote everyone, namely the release of Bondar, the commission of inquiry, I ask your attention, in the Lviv region, in the region of Ivano-Frankiv, as well as once again to vote on the information of the foreign minister. We agreed, that's how I did it. I realize that this is a derogation from the Rules, but these are political arrangements to reconcile the interests of political factions and groups. May I have your attention, please? In the motive of the Infantry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u220	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm sorry, but there's another investigation commission that we've asked to create in Dnipropetrovsk. The point is that all the leaders, both the majority and the minority, have signed, because of this noise, no one has understood what this is about. And the point is that this plant that was making 4.5 million profits last year has caused half a million losses, and today it's on the verge of bankruptcy. It's not like we're not checking the company, but we need to find out if it's an order check, if it's a different test. And that's why all the leaders, both the majority and the minority, signed such a statement and such a determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u221	Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? I'm putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on granting consent to the release of Alexander Bondar from office as head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund. Please vote. [[13:04:43]] For 239. Decision taken. The factions, please. The factions. May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on the bill of approval for the appointment of Mikhail Chechtov as head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund. This is document number 3277. Please vote. [[13:05:27]] For 260 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Let's thank Alexander Bondar, who, according to the Supreme Council's mandate, has worked in this office under the authority of the Supreme Council. We also welcome Michael Chechchev and wish that he would work in principle and objectively, as he spoke about it from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! I'm voting for inclusion in the agenda. The factions, please. Sergey Sobolev for the reasons of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u222	Sobolev, Our Ukraine, Reform and Order Party. Dear friends, a unique thing has just happened. After the Parliament, according to the President of Ukraine, disagreed with the resignation of Bondar in the morning, the issue was again raised without the President being tabled. All of you are well aware that this could not have been done physically. This question could not, in principle, have been voted on without the President being re- tabled in connection with Bondar's release. Therefore, sorry, this vote is invalid, and let the regulatory committee consider how Parliament could have made such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u223	Peter Simonenko, for reasons, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u224	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, the faction of Communists is taking a firm stand against the privatization program that is taking place today and that is destroying the economic independence of the state, destroying the basics of our independence that affect both industry and the agro-industrial complex. We strongly condemn the practical implementation of this program, because the State Property Fund is not a fund that protects national public interests and state property, but is a fund for the satisfaction of mafia clan interests that contribute to the spread of property, the illegal acquisition of property, and it is simply sold for no price to those to whom the directive is being sold. Whether it comes from the interests of the President's environment or other interests. I would like to remind you that this program has led to the expansion of the energy complex, the destruction of the metal industry, and much more. The Communist faction against such a program does not take part in such a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to explain to our colleague Sobolev that there was an agreement and everyone agreed that those issues that were not supported, we are voting on them. These are four more questions, please bear that in mind. I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft decision "On the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the verification of the illegal activities of the leadership of the DPA in the Lviv region. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:08:57]] For 222 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft decision on the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the application of schemes, tax evasion by enterprises in the Ivano-Frankov region. About getting into the daytime. [[13:09:33]] For 131 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft decree for the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify the illegal activities of the Dnipropetrovsky District Prosecutor's Office. [[13:10:04]] For-152. The decision is not taken. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the U.S. Presidential and US Ambassador's statement in Ukraine regarding Ukraine's accession to the anti-Iraq coalition. I'd like you to determine by vote. [[13:10:37]] For 118 The decision is not taken. A draft decree on the costs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2003 is being announced for consideration. Sergei Volodymyrovich Sas is the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, as Sergey Volodymyrovich points out, we need to include this issue in the agenda. So I ask you to vote in favour of including in the agenda a draft decision on the cost of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2003. Please vote. [[13:11:36]] For 358 Decision taken. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u226	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 35, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 1005 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the approval by the Supreme Council of the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which provides for the financing and provision of the activities of the higher legislative body of the State. On September 19, 2002, the Rules Committee reviewed a project submitted by the Supreme Council's Authority for the implementation of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, supported it with a total of 304 million dollars of the general fund, 18 million dollars less than the money offered by the apparatus, and sent it to the Committee on Budget Affairs to support it. The Committee on Budget Affairs did not support the committee's proposal, but proposed in a draft State budget prepared for the first reading of the expenditure on the Supreme Council's activities, amounting to 236 million, 68.9 million dollars less proposed by the committee. The committee. Now, now, I must say. Dear colleagues, I ask your attention, the issue concerns very serious matters, the costs of exercising the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. May I have your attention, please? The Rules Committee asked the Budget Committee three times in 2002 to support the funding of the Supreme Council in the amount of 304 million dollars. Unfortunately, this proposal did not find support for the committee. As you know, Ukraine's 2003 State Budget Act approves expenditures for the implementation of the Supreme Council's 219 million, 850 thousand, 400 dollars, of which 183 million, 75 thousand, 800 dollars and 36 million, 774 thousand, 600 dollars of the special fund, one million, 332 thousand, 100 dollars less than the general fund in 2002. By means of a dialogue by the Committee on Rules with the Supreme Council's Office at the meetings of the Committee on February 19 and March 5, this year, the funds were partially redistributed within the above-mentioned amounts and the funds that you are familiar with were supported. The Committee's proposals were largely accepted to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, in particular article 18 on the disclosure of the activities of the People's Deputies, directed at 5 million dollars, article 35 on the creation of adequate housing conditions for the People's Deputies 15 million dollars of monetary compensation and 19 million dollars on the construction of housing by the State Building Unit. The position of article 32 on compensation for the expenses of MPs in the average monthly salary of a thousand 500 dollars and computerization of 4 million 935 thousand dollars. It's been increased to 3,000 consulting assistants and other expenses. In the absence of time, I will not talk about all the changes that have taken place at this time. I would like to draw the attention of the honourable deputies to what has already been a quarter, and to this day the Supreme Council of Ukraine is funded on a residual basis, only the cost of wages is financed. We don't build housing today, we don't pay compensation today, we don't create the right conditions for exercising the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this regard, I ask you to support the funding of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2003. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u227	Dear National Deputies! The Regulatory Committee has long considered this issue. And of the money we have, it's all clearly written down. I'm asking the Supreme Council to approve the funding for 2003. Roman Zvaric, please. Dear colleagues! I have to follow the rules that I can do.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u228	Dear colleagues! ‘ Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The "Our Ukraine" faction is ready to support this resource, but we think we need to make some adjustments. In particular, taking into account also the position, as far as we know, of the Committee on Budgets. So we ask that you put this question to a vote as a basis, that is, in the first reading. In that case, we are willing to vote in favour and then allow the people's deputies of Ukraine to submit their proposals to this project in accordance with the legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u229	Dear National Deputies! Who wanted to make his proposals from the national deputies did it all. Whoever doesn't want to take the treasure, he's offering it today. That's the question with the beard. We have repeatedly considered it, so I propose to vote in favour of this motion immediately and to accept it as a whole. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u230	Please be supportive. Dear colleagues! There was no budget proposal for the Committee. There were proposals for individual deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u231	I ask everyone to vote. [[13:17:07]] For 316 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Let's go to chapter two, third reading. Draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine to bring the Code into line with the Constitution. Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko. Let's do some repairs right now, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u232	Dear colleagues and reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! This law has been brought to the fore for a third time. I briefed him. Now we've been working with the authors of the amendments, and he's offering to accept it in the third reading and in general. I'll give you a quick reminder. I thought it was about getting the defendant to know the material of the case should count the term of keeping it under guard. It's a democratic approach, it's a balanced approach, and the committee is offering to make the right decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u233	Dear colleagues! Boris Bespali, please. What is your correction? Vasil Vasilovich, are we putting him to the vote right now?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u234	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'd like to say a few words really out of the way. I have no objection to this particular bill. But this bill is still a whole series: No. 2197, No. 1215, No. 3015, No. 3048. It's a bill. Today, a table is distributed, and it is put to the vote. We had just witnessed the day’s issue being brought into order without discussion, and once again, we were voted on. Today, we witnessed what my colleague Sergey Soboljev noted when an important issue was being voted on as Head of the Maintenance Foundation without introducing the President. That's why I have a request for you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Let's stop this race for what. Because it has a big impact on the quality of legislation. This is our reputation with you, this is a parliament, not a collegial assembly. And let's stop some kind of competition with what and with time. And let's address the issue exactly in accordance with the Rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u235	Thank you. We go exactly in line with the Rules. Third reading. If there are corrections to your written, unaccounted for, let's put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u236	Not exactly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u237	None. I'm voting on adoption on the third reading and the whole draft of Law No. 2454. This is a draft of the Act on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the application of the Code to the Constitution. Please vote. [[13:20:17]] For 241 The law is passed. A draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Fixed Agricultural Tax on Water Foundation Lands is being announced for consideration, second reading. Mikola Eutychyevich Melnik, please. By the way, what do we have there?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u238	There are changes here. Honourable National Deputies, Honourable Visitors, are being submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for second reading the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Fixed Agricultural Tax, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Register No. 2022. The bill provides for the abolition of the natural form of payment of fixed agricultural taxes and for the establishment of new conditions for the collection of this tax for fishing farms. Before this bill, three proposals were made by the Ukrainian people’s deputies. Demjochin Vladimir Anatoliyovich, Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, and Švidenk Mikolayovich. It is suggested that the definition of inland waters, lakes, ponds, and reservoirs be removed in part 1 of article 3. These proposals are not supported and suggested to be rejected by the committee, since if the law does not specify the definition of inland waters, the calculation of the land tax under water will create difficulties with the definition of the area of taxation of these lands. So in part 5 and 6 of the article, you put the second one in this version. "The object of taxation for payers of fixed agricultural taxes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u239	It is, I think the MPs see it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u240	I think they see everyone's got it. And please support him, this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u241	Is Demjochin's national MP not insisting on his amendment? Are you insisting? I'll bet you a vote on the amendment of the national MP, won't you? He insists. I bet the vote on the amendment of the People's Demjochina, this is amendment number one.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u242	This amendment was rejected by the committee. [[13:22:52]] For-119
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u243	The decision is not taken. 119. Viacheslav Kirilenko, you insist on your amendment. Don't insist. Speed correction accounted for. Oh, no? National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u244	This amendment was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u245	I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the people's MP, this is the amendment under number 3. We can vote on the second reading as a whole, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u246	Yeah, second reading as a whole, I think. [[13:23:29]] For-119 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we voted on all the amendments. I'm voting on the second reading of the draft law, "to amend the Ukrainian law on fixed agricultural tax on water fund land. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u247	The committee's asking for your support, Your Honor. Please vote. [[13:24:02]] For 252
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u248	Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u249	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u250	The committee proposes the adoption as a whole of draft law under number 2022. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u251	The committee's asking for support. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u252	All adjustments are taken into account, and others are rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u253	Yes, all the corrections are taken into account. [[13:24:26]] For 283 The law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u254	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u255	A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Fixed Agricultural Taxes on Retirement of Income Pensions is being announced for consideration, second reading. Mikola Eutychyevich, please, as amended, if they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u256	There are no amendments. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, having considered the draft law of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Law on Fixed Agricultural Taxation, under number 1192 on recovery for payers of fixed agricultural tax, decided to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reject the payment of benefits to the Ukrainian Pension Fund. Yet the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft Ukrainian law, registration number 1192, is to be adopted as a basis. In view of what has been said, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the decision to adopt a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Law on Fixed Agricultural Taxation should be repealed as a means to increase tax pressure on agricultural producers. Can I have your back, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u257	National Deputy Vasil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u258	I wish to speak in explanation of vote. Dear colleagues, the draft law on first reading has already been adopted by the Supreme Council. I am grateful to all who have supported this, because the question for today is the partial reimbursement of pensions for rural pensioners. Today, we are constantly hearing that the amount of the pension does not correspond to any minimum of living. At the same time, you and I have completely abandoned the village in part, and I stress that some resources have been made available to your pensioners. Today, thanks to a fixed agricultural science, the village does not provide 1 billion dollars to the pension system. The amount that we are talking about today, especially since the issue is not about cancelling the fixed agricultural industry, is 2.5 per cent of the $1 billion. It's not evolutionary, but it's fair that everyone on the pension system should bring in at least a little bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u259	Thank you. Zachuk, head of the Pension Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u260	Honorable national MPs, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, make up more than 10,000 of all such payers. If you take it, transfer it to one payer or, let's say, to the farm, the month they're going to pay just 650 dollars. And areas like Volinska, Chernivetska, Zakarpatska, Ternopilska 300-500 hryvnia per month. Is that big money?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u261	Please, Mikola Eutychyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u262	Ladies and gentlemen, please note that the committee has rejected this bill and is asking you to confirm it. The thing is, this pressure is 70 million dollars a year. And the peasant pays for his pension. The income tax also includes the calculation of money, the calculation of a fixed tax of 70 percent per pension. So, talk about what a peasant doesn't pay, right? There's statistics here that the village is paying 700 million dollars today just to contribute it to the Pension Fund. And the pension fund alone is 7 billion. But it's not the village's fault. And if we're taking into account the weather this year, the death of the winter, the drought is secondary. And we put a heavy burden on the village of the payer. That's why we're asking you to cancel.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u263	Thank you. That's convincing. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the committee's proposal. Draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Fixed Agricultural Tax. This is No. 1192/P-1. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u264	The committee asks for support, Your Honor, consider the situation in the country today. Hold on, please. [[13:29:11]] For 128
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u265	So let the committee work. In the first reading, let him prepare for the second reading of the document. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u266	Well, your honor, the situation, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u267	I didn't say base. I've read it clearly. I'm reading again. I am voting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Fixed Agricultural Tax. This is document No. 1192/P-1. That's what I read.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u268	Ladies and gentlemen, vote. You're going to help the peasant. What you're talking about, I don't understand why you don't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u269	So I put it to the vote. Turn on the system. I'm re-voting draft Decree No. 1192/P-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u270	Please vote for the Majors, please vote for everyone, Your Honor. [[13:30:21]] For-140.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u271	So there is a law in the first reading. Let them work for the second reading. Please, Darling, what's the procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u272	On second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u273	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. I have a question. What we will continue to do with this bill if, in fact, the position of the committee is diametrically opposite to what is proposed. We're gonna be listening every six months or two, and the committee's gonna say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u274	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has adopted only one decree: an unprepared draft law for second reading. We have no more reason to talk about it. I ask the committee to prepare and submit documents for second reading. All of it. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Insurance Tariffs for Publicly Compulsory State Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases, which caused the loss of employment, on the size of the tariff, is being announced for consideration. [[second reading]] The rapporteur is the head of the committee, Hara Vasil Grigorovich. Let's do some repairs right now, if they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u275	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the entire quarter of this fund is working on old tariffs, which, thus, have happened that do not satisfy. Therefore, on 28 February, we adopted it on first reading. Six proposals for second reading have been submitted, five of which have been taken into account and one has not been taken into account. In addition, Bill No. 3035 was passed by People's MP Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlović. In agreement with him, all his proposals entered into the second reading of the Act. There is therefore a proposal to consider it. But I just wanted to say for 10 seconds that the following thing happened was that, contrary to the law, the tariff was not properly established, by voluntary means. It's not enough that 73 million of you and I have invested in this fund, to allocate this fund to cover the last few years' regression. We have also limited our administrative costs to 4 per cent in the State budget. And today, the fund has a deficit, with a total budget reduction of 160 million. Therefore, bear in mind that there is no other way, we must adopt this law, but we affirm the budget of this fund with great deficit. And the only proposal that was not taken into account, Sharov, is one of the proposals because it is regulated in article 5 and article 6-1 of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u276	Is Sharov's national MP insisting on his amendment? No, it's not. I am voting for the second reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act "On Social Insurance Tariffs for Socially Compulsory State Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases, which have caused the loss of employment in terms of the size of the tariff. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u277	I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u278	Please vote, Your Honor. [[13:33:31]] For 365 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u279	Thank you very much. The Committee requests that it be adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u280	I am voting on the adoption as a whole, as a law, of the draft Act amending the Law on Insurance Tariffs to a general obligation of state social insurance against an accident in production and occupational disease that has caused a loss of work on the size of the tariff. Now we're going to vote, then you're going to say procedure. I voted, I can't call it off. [[13:34:09]] For 353 The law is passed. Vernigor's national MP from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u281	Leonid Vernigore, Socialist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! You've just been listening carefully to what the committee head has reported that 73 million people have illegally contributed to this fund. We should vote in favour of this law in the event that this 73 million government budget returns or withdraws from the burden of the fund. They're not going to pay off the regression on the debts of the past few years.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u282	I got it. Well, the thing is, the committee head is going to propose for him as a whole. A draft Law on the State Border Service of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u283	Dear colleagues! The second reading came up with 48 suggestions. They're practically all accounted for. The only thing that Les Stepanovich Tanjuk suggested was that opposition should be given to the illegal crossing of the national frontier of cultural values. But in article 20, paragraph 33, there is a reference to resistance to cross-overs of all cargo and property that are legally prohibited and restricted. So this proposal is included. With this in mind, we offer to accept it as a second reading and as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u284	Dear colleagues, all proposals are taken into account. Therefore, we have every reason to support the committee's proposal and to put the draft law to the vote in the second reading. Please vote. [[13:36:21]] For 318 Decision taken. The committee proposes to adopt as a whole the bill of this law. I'm betting on a vote on adoption as a whole as a bill of the Ukrainian Act on the Ukrainian State Border Service. This is document No. 2196. Please vote. [[13:36:50]] For 332 The law is passed. A draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the establishment of the State Border Service is being announced for consideration, please, Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u285	18 suggestions were made. This law is adopted in connection with the adoption of a previous law and changes are made to valid legislative acts. Both by the first law and by the second, the very proper observations of the Legal Authority are taken into account. We ask for a second reading as well as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u286	I would like to vote on the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the creation of the Ukrainian State Border Service. Please vote. [[13:37:53]] For 336 Copy that. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt this bill as a law as a whole. This is a draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the creation of the Ukrainian State Border Service. Document number 2197, please vote as a matter of law. [[13:38:27]] For 349 The law is passed. Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Collective Contracts and Agreements Act, second reading, is being announced for consideration. [[new editor]] The committee head, Hara Vasil Grigorovich, will report. Stepan Cloud's procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u287	Cloud, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Fatherland Party. Dear National Deputies! I'm just urging you not to vote in favour of this law, to take it down today at all, because the committee has committed fraud and that law wants to legitimize the monopolies with the puppets of their unions and thus deprive any rights of those unions that are being created today, which are called independents. I have made 16 amendments to this law and none have been tabled. That's about a month and a half ago. Now Comrade Hara will tell you that I failed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u288	It is.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u289	But there is a minor amendment to the 4th article, so I ask you to withdraw this law again. It's a very important law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u290	Turn off the microphone. What is the position of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u291	Dear colleagues, I can explain everything now. Well, first of all, it's very short. The second reading received 109 proposals from members of the people, of which 99 were taken into account. With this law, at your request, because we have passed it twice. The last deadline for the submission of proposals by the people's deputies was 10 January. In view of the importance of this law and your interests, we have extended the adoption of proposals until 5 February, and it is on 5 February that the Committee has considered all the proposals that have been received, adopted it, recommended that it be considered on second reading and referred as appropriate to the session room. With regard to the proposal of Tsarenko, Mother, Clouds and additional proposals by Volinz, they had already been made after the law was here in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council. Therefore, I would like to recall that this is a draft of the Cabinet of Ministers that we have been very attentive to, and that it has been examined by the International Labour Organization, and therefore we have no reason to delay it for the tenth time. I ask him to consider it according to procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u292	Please take Mother, Vernighor and then the Cloud. And we'll go to the repairs then. I ask very briefly of you, fellow believers. Mother, please, then Vernigora.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u293	I'm asking the deputies that the Federation of Employers of Ukraine by letter asks them to postpone the approval of this law because the positions are not taken into account and there is no agreement. It's a very serious thing, one of the partners of three against the adoption of the law at all now. Put it away for a while.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u294	I got the offer. Leonid Vernigore, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u295	Leonid Vernigora, a socialist faction. I support both Stephen the Cloud and Mother, and I want us to remove today three laws that, without the adoption of Law 2563, we cannot, without consideration, consider either 2192 or 1042. They all came together on a single, unregulated law on trade unions, on the rights of legalization and registration of trade unions. So I propose to support and postpone these three laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u296	Please, Stepan Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u297	Dear National Deputies! He wasn't being honest on the rostrum, Mr. Hara, he was trying to fool the hall by saying that I had amended it late, that's not true. Because one of the 16 major amendments is not relevant to article 4, where only a part of the phrase is moved. And Hara and Stoyan, who make no changes to this law, are trying to legitimize this usurpation that they are making today. So, I ask, absolutely, to withdraw this bill today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u298	Alexander Stoyan, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u299	Ladies and gentlemen, since 1995 the law on collective bargaining has been in force. He is getting old, so the government, in accordance with the general agreement, has passed a new draft law to all the companies. We have considered it many times, made suggestions, and made suggestions to those who have submitted them in due time. I want to remind you that it's just begun. It's a company. And without that law, it cannot be done. What employers offer is understandable. This law makes it mandatory to make a sectoral agreement, general, collective, regardless of the form of ownership. Some owners do not want to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u300	Thank you. People's deputy Volintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u301	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, I am surprised by the invalidity of the head of the committee, since he says that I have made an unfortunate offer. I've made more than 15 offers. The committee considered one secondary. That's the first one. It's different. These changes, which are now being proposed, are contrary to the current trade union law. And they're breaking convention 87 on freedom of association and convention 98 on the right to collective bargaining. So I suggest we not now consider this bill, remove it from consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u302	Thank you. Committee position, are we considering the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u303	The position of the committee is so. Dear colleagues, of course I will not be excused for what Stepan Ilkovic said, it is possible to look at the registration of the documents, according to the letters they gave. That's the first one. Second. I want to repeat what Stoyan said. Indeed, the laws in force today are outdated. It's been almost ten years, that's the first. Second. A treaty campaign is under way. And we don't have a very good situation. I've already reported from this rostrum on my first reading. 25 per cent of employees are outside the scope of collective agreements, so they are not protected. A total of 14 to 20 per cent met the contractual obligations contained in collective agreements. And third. For the fourth time, we have tried to postpone consideration of this law. I think it's time to stop and follow procedure, as amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u304	Right. Amendment number six of Volinz's national deputy. Yes, you insist on this amendment, Michael Volintz? Well, dear colleagues, there's a committee proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u305	It is in contravention of the trade union law, so the amendment has been repealed. We cannot lay down rules in this law that are contrary to existing laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u306	Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! Wait a minute! The committee's proposal is to consider and adopt this law. There is a proposal for a number of national deputies to postpone his consideration. I'm putting this motion to a vote -- to postpone the consideration of this bill's draft. Please determine by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u307	Dear colleagues, how long can you take? How many cheeks can you do and what can you say? People expect good laws from us. And this law is good. Please don't support the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u308	Please make up your mind. [[13:47:22]] For 193 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u309	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u310	Amendment number six. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u311	Amendment No. 6 is contrary to the current trade union law. You can't take her. Let's put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u312	I'm voting on amendment number six of Volinz's national deputy. I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u313	It cannot be accepted, it is contrary to the law on trade unions in force. [[13:47:54]] For-64
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u314	The decision is not taken. Ninth Amendment of Volinz’s People’s Deputy
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u315	The ninth amendment is the same. But this is contrary to the Employers' Associations Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u316	National Deputy Wolintz, are you insisting on correcting this? Mikhail Volintz, do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u317	He is not taking part.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u318	Dear colleagues! What are you yelling at? We did, however, by putting it to the vote according to the procedure. What do you want? I put to the vote amendment number nine of the National MP to Wolinz. [[B in m in s a l in]] Change the vote. Please, Michael Volintz. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u319	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! You have not considered that one of the partners, employers, has proposed not to consider this bill and to elaborate it. For my part, I also proposed to withdraw it now because it contradicts the Constitution and ILO conventions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u320	I put it to a vote, my dear fellow.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u321	The MPs didn't understand, they couldn't even vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u322	The MPs are well aware, let's not play games. Regrettably, employers are not subject to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u323	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I beg your pardon. Volinec here very often refers to the ILO. The bill was reviewed by the International Labour Organization. Therefore, there is no need to invoke a violation of any of the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u324	Dear colleagues! The ninth amendment is put to the vote, do you insist, National Deputy Wolinitz, or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u325	Come on, don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u326	You're filming, it's good. Next. Amendment No. 12 of France. Is the people's detude insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u327	Nope. Francek agreed on the committee that it was cancelled.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u328	Amendment No. 13 of the People's Deputy Kosinova.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u329	Here's the only thing that we accept is the language that's already in others. To ensure full compliance with the three laws on the definition of terms, please accept the drafting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u330	National deputy Kosinov insists? National deputy Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u331	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we're glad that you're showing principle, but, you know, there's a lot of this when you're considering drafts when you're not looking at them, there's a lot of amendments, there's a lot of proposals by the people's deputies from the secretariat or the reporters or anyone else. When we vote for judges, we raise any doubts separately and we look at them. In this case, if national MPs indicate that their 15, 16 amendments are not included, we cannot consider and adopt this bill. Therefore, my proposal is to postpone consideration, refer it to the Rules Committee, and when it is agreed then to consider and make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u332	Thank you. One minute, I'll tell you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have made a motion for a vote. The committee insists on considering the bill. If the committee agrees, then we take it off. We've had cases like this. And I would ask you not to enter or raise your hand, please. I'm asking you if there's an amendment to the letter, let's vote on the amendment. That's it. Let us once again make a proposal from the government to obey. Deputy Secretary of the Ministry of Labour. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable national MPs, this bill, which was drafted by the government and submitted for consideration, took into account, in fact, all those norms were international and all worked out in this regard. But when changes and additions began to take place, the bill was completely different. And there are standards that really conflict with conventions, with ILO recommendations. And we suggest that it be removed from consideration so that these issues can be reconciled.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u333	Ladies and gentlemen, all we have to do is feel sorry for this government, which since 1902.2003, when these laws are being worked out, has only now come to an understanding of what this law needs to be removed. Where have you been before?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u334	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to say something like that. But to the extent that there is no respect for the committee, there are professionals and professionals who have worked very hard both with employers and with the government. This does not mean that all the proposals made should have been accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u335	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to these positions, I think we should make a decision to postpone the consideration of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u336	Vladimir Mihajlovich, but the other decision will not be taken by the committee. We'll insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u337	We'll vote now. All of it. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the application of special measures for imports into Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Komarovski Vladimir Volodymyrovic, head of the subcommittee
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u338	Dear colleagues, when preparing for the second reading, one proposal came in, it was counted. The committee proposes to adopt this bill as a law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u339	Dear national deputies, the proposals made by the national deputies, are considered, and we have every reason to adopt the law in the second reading. I would like to vote on the second reading of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Application of Special Arrangements for Import into Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:53:52]] For 363 Decision taken. I'm voting on the whole project as a law, number 1025. Please vote. [[13:54:14]] For 362 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on State Customs on the exemption from customs of notarial certificates for the collection of debt from rent is being announced. [[second reading]] Baby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u340	Tzusko, Socialist faction, Committee on Finance. So, respectable colleagues, what the law is, what it is. Enterprises that are publicly leased do not pay rent to the Holding Fund on time. And when the Detainee Fund goes to court, there's still a duty to be paid. It is proposed to release the executive records of the notaries from this duty, i.e. to help the State to collect the fee from the tenants. Thank you. Please vote on the basis as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u341	I am voting on the second reading of the draft law amending the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the State's duty of exemption from the duty of notary certificates of debt from rent. Please vote. [[13:55:46]] For 296 For 296, it's a decision. I'm betting on a vote on the whole draft law under number 1054 as a law. Please vote. [[13:56:10]] For 308. For 308, the law's passed. A draft law amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Land Payment Act on the Lands of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and the Border Forces is being announced for consideration. [[second reading]] National Deputy Vladimir Leschenko, head of the subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u342	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! From the national MPs to the second reading of proposals and comments did not come. But the committee in preparation for the second reading, in agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers, and with the Chief Legal Office, brought some editorials here, another that was in the first reading. The point is that, in addition to making changes to article 12 of the Law, there is a need to make appropriate changes to both article 7 and article 8 of the Law. I ask you to support and generally accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u343	Can we put it in the second reading and in general as a law at once? Yeah. I'm voting for acceptance. Please, Baranowski. Alexander Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u344	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, in my view, this law cannot be passed until the military is released from the surpluses of the earth. Today, Ukraine’s Armed Forces hold 500,000 hectares of land, 2 hectares per military officer! If we adopt this law, they will trade this land tomorrow, that is, they will never be freed from it. So let us hold back until land audits are carried out, and the land will not be given to local councils, surpluses. And then we vote on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u345	I am voting on the second reading of the draft Act on Amendments to Article 12 of the Land Pay Act on the Lands of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and the Border Forces. Please vote. We're still working for another 15 minutes. [[13:58:31]] For 202 "For" - 202. The decision is not taken. Why don't we vote again? _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ The committee's making a motion to re-send.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u346	One more time, huh? Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Please, Assadchev. Let's work for another 15 minutes, let's make a decision. _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ The committee requests that the bill be supported in a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u347	Dear colleagues, this year for the first time, the budget committee has established a standard that should pay 50 percent of the salary, but the local authority has the right to release. So let's look at how much this land is being used. Let's see what happened for a year. In fact, today the vast areas of the military are being traded by these commanders, given to whom they do not know, and put money in their pockets. Let's get this cool. Now we release it, the budget loses, the money goes into the private pocket again. Let's see one year, let's draw some conclusions, and then we'll take some sort of regulation. I'm proposing not to accept this bill until now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u348	Peter Porcelain.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u349	Dear colleagues, this is not even about who trades in these lands. The point is that in the case of the adoption of this law, in the State Budget, we have to provide for separate costs to compensate for the loss to local budgets. And the adoption of one law and the non-admission of another simply means a populist decision when we put local budgets on our knees. Requesting that we do not generally try to refine, define the mechanism, provide adequate guarantees for the necessary funding to the Armed Forces and only then accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u350	Peter Alexiovich, what have we just seen here is the draft of this law, right? And there was no time to take your stand. Alexander Kuzmuk. Let us not find a relationship in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u351	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I would ask you not to blame for handing over land or profit to it, for which there is no such thing and cannot be. The committee supported the bill as a whole. In fact, the budget does not provide for either the Armed Forces or the border guards to pay for the land. I want to remind you that you supported me this year and liberated the Armed Forces from paying for the land. I'm asking you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u352	National MP Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u353	Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine", National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I really ask you to note that, on the one hand, the state budget does not have the funds for this. But local budgets provide for concessions from land payments, and these budgets are approved. The adoption of the law today means that there will be no concessions to local budgets. Hence, from which sources will the undercompensation be made due to the adoption of the law of concession to local budgets. I would like to remind you that the Constitution of Ukraine requires that, in such cases, at the same time as the adoption of such laws, the same law determine the sources of compensation not to come into the local budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u354	Basil Tsushko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u355	Chush, the Socialist faction. Dear colleagues, I'm from Odessa County. In the Odessa region, there is such a region as Tarutinsky. Twenty-four thousand. acres of beautiful land. For ten years now, they have been trying to figure out exactly where, and how has this land been used? And we can't find it. and local authorities, including the Paradise Commission, cannot reach a solution. Therefore, at least this bill, if we do not wish to reject it, is read again. But you can't take him now. We need to work out and deal with the lands that the Ministry of Defence has.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u356	Yes, Department of Defense, your position, please. Well, what do you think about this bill, please? ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ It's not my bill, I'm waiting for mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u357	And please, a representative of the foreign troops. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the decision is not made for one year. There is land not only under our military towns but also under the engineering buildings located on the state’s border. No one can ever repay us for that. We very much ask you to support this bill, as we are today from this, well, we have major problems. We ask very much for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u358	Committee position, please. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear National Deputies! From the committee, I explain that the Armed Forces. and foreign troops are exempt from this land payment annually by State Budget laws. Also this year. Besides, it's not clear if our soldiers aren't fed, we're not dressed or anything, and we're going to be counting from the state budget into another budget. So the committee's proposal is to adopt the draft in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u359	I guess so. Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. Now the committee's proposal and explanation have been made by the border guards, and I am voting on the adoption of the draft law amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Land Paying for the Land of the Armed Forces and Border Forces. Please vote. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Vote for it. The committee's asking for support. [[14:05:09]] For 244 Decision taken. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ The committee's asking for it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u360	I'm betting on a vote on the whole draft of this law as a law. Please vote. [[14:05:33]] For 241 Decision taken. Sergey Shevchuk, please. And Maria Marcus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u361	Thank you. NDP faction. Thank you for giving me your word after the vote. But I have to say that from this day forward, there will be, as a minimum, three bills that cannot be called otherwise than the attack on local self-government. Because these bills essentially take small amounts of money from local governments and are approved by their budgets for this year for good and clear purposes. But this is not a complex issue. Therefore, Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is not an option. Moreover, there will soon be parliamentary hearings on matters of local self - government. There we'll talk about the opposite.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u362	Thank you. Maria Andriyevna Marcus, a member of the Committee on Law Enforcement, is presenting a draft law on changes to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in Civil Defence and Protection of Peoples of Areas against Exceptional Situations. Please, Maria Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u363	The Communist faction. Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, the Committee on the Legislative Security of Law Enforcement, was discussed in Bill 1 000, 1953, on the amendment of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in Second Reading. However, taking into account the comments and amendments to the project, it is recommended that it be accepted. Taking into account the amendments and comments adopted by the committee. I'm going to point out that the title of the bill that I spoke about at the committee meeting does not reflect in any way its contents. So I suggested that I put it in this version. "To amend Ukraine's Code of Administrative Offences concerning the establishment of responsibilities in the area of civil defence and the protection of the population and territory against emergencies, this has been taken into account. The number of articles 188-16 was proposed to be replaced by the number 188-17, since article 188-16 already exists and was adopted by the Ukrainian Law on March 6, 2003, and this was also taken into account by the committee. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Chikal, suggested in articles 188-17 that the words "legal orders or prescriptions of others" should be deleted in connection with the fact that, according to valid legislation, such documents are not issued by the designated body. Therefore, this offer by the national representative of Chicago was also included.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u364	Let us, which proposals, Maria Andriyevna, are unaccounted for, and who insists on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u365	Unaccounted for, partial consideration is given to the proposal of the Tolstoyov People’s Deputy, where it was proposed to change the name of the special authorized body by placing it in the plural. But it does exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u366	Okay. Tostouchov agrees? It's okay. Richter's, it's partially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u367	The offer of Tolstouchov was not taken into account where he requested it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u368	He agrees with what the committee did.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u369	Richter’s proposal is not taken into account with regard to making changes to part of Dr.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u370	Raisa Vasilovna insists? No, it doesn't. Now the amendment of the People’s Deputy Simonov, 7. Declined.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u371	Rejected, yes, is the fact that the position of this article does not correspond to the functions of the body that is proposed to make Simon’s report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u372	Thank you. I am voting for a second reading of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences in Civil Defence and Protection of the Population and Areas from Exceptional Situations. Please vote. [[2:09:31]] For 332 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u373	Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of this bill as a matter of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u374	I'm betting on a vote on adoption as a whole as a bill of draft law number 1153. Please vote. [[14:09:59]] For 340. The law is passed. Thank you, Maria Andriyevna. Dear colleagues, we've studied with the Legal Department here and we've come to the conclusion, I would like to draw attention to the draft decision on the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify the situation in the grain and bread market in Ukraine. It is suggested that we do so. Two co-heads are Melniczuk and Gabrieluk. Is there no objection? I am voting on the whole draft decision to establish a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify the situation in the Ukrainian grain and bread market. [[14:10:56]] For 247 Decision taken. Maybe we'll take another look at this. We've got it here. We've been talking for 15 minutes. You didn't deny it. I am introducing a draft law amending article 168 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences on the Responsibility for the Release of Non-Standard Produce. Is Sergey Ivanov there? You remember we discussed this bill. National MP Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u375	Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine" National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of my warnings in considering this bill in the first reading. And now I see that this is fully realized in the second reading. Thus, a fine of up to 350 dollars is imposed on an official for the production of nonstandard products. I mean, you can drop the hell knows that, to poison a lot of people, you're fined up to 350 bucks. At the same time, subjects of entrepreneurial activity — those who trade — will also be fined for taking milk or cheese out into the market. Please, let us keep in mind that this is not the way to handle matters. This is an absurd approach when it is not punished for what is to be punished and, on the contrary, for punishment that is not to be punished.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u376	Dear National Deputies! I think we all understand that quality products, non-standard products, are probably different. In the draft law that we're considering, the proposal was one written by the National MP, Chicago, it's included. We therefore have every reason to vote on the adoption in the second reading of the draft Law amending article 168 of the Code of Administrative Offences on Responsibility for the Release and Sale of Non-standard Produce. Please vote. [[14:13:09]] For 253 Decision taken. I'm voting on the whole draft law of 1215 as a law. Please vote. [[14:13:32]] For 258. The law is passed. Dear colleagues! We have two minutes left. Shall we take a break? One more, please, two minutes. Mikhailo Alexiyovich will report the bill. We said in 15 minutes, we're working two more minutes, dear colleagues. May I have your patience, fellow officers of honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u377	Dear National Deputies! Adoption of the bill in the article. allow all cases of possible offences to be taken into account during international transfers of goods subject to expert control. One comment was made that was taken into account when the bill was drafted. I ask you to accept it in a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-03-m0.u378	I would like to vote on the second reading of the draft Act amending article 333 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on responsibility in the field of export control. Please vote. [[14:14:45]] For 304 For 304, decision taken. The committee proposes to accept this project as a law as a whole. This is 2086. Please vote. And then there'll be a break. [[14:15:07]] For 313 Thanks, for the 313, the law's been passed. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00.
