ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:12]] Registered -368 A total of 368 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is announced. Honourable National Deputies, according to the calendar schedule for the third session of the morning session, are being held on the day of the Ukrainian government. In order of day-to-day information from the government on the state and prospects of vocational and technical education in Ukraine and on the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to organize the rehabilitation of children in the summer. The government appointed the Minister of Education and Science of Kremen Vasil Grigorovitch and the Head of the State Committee on Family Affairs and Young Duženko Valentina Ivanovna. The relevant information materials of the Cabinet of Ministers are given to you. According to the Government Day Regulations, the Committees suggest that the meeting time be allocated in this way: listen carefully, please. To consider the first question, take up to two hours of work, and to consider the second question, one and a half hours. With a view to allowing more time for presentations, it is suggested that the time to ask the first question be reduced to 40 minutes, and the second to 30 minutes. The first question is to take up to 20 minutes, the co-reporter to 10 minutes. The discussion of the two issues will be completed within 14 hours. Will there be a denial? You don't? Does that mean a co-reporter? Okay. Let's get to work. Yeah? For information on the status and prospects of the development of vocational and technical education in Ukraine, Vasil Grigorovich Kremen, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u2	Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear national deputies, members of the government, are invited! First of all, I would like to thank the Supreme Council of Ukraine very much for increasing attention to the development of education and science and their legislative provisions, because in the early 21st century, science becomes the world's highest priority as an area that produces new knowledge and education as an area that popularizes knowledge, to ensure human development at various stages of its activity. It would seem to be a simple and at the same time complex truth: only a country that will ensure the priority development of these spheres will be able to claim a decent place in the world’s co-workers and be competitive. Clearly, the key task is to ensure that education is real rather than a declared priority. It's impossible to do this without modernizing and modernizing all of its links, one of them is vocational and technical education. I would like to say that today's Government Day was preceded by hearings at the Science and Education Committee, a committee that hurts and does a lot of work for vocational and technical education. In addition to the national deputies, experts, scientists, and representatives from all parts of Ukraine took part in this hearing. There was a principle, an open and constructive conversation, aimed at finding ways to upgrade this system in the context of the transition of society from industrial to scientific information technology. There were also meetings of deputies with professionals, round tables, practical seminars on these important issues. The problems of preparing a highly qualified manufacturer are known to be relevant in all countries. They were by no chance the focus of the International Congress in Seoul in the year 99. This forum adopted recommendations — technical and professional education and views in the 21st century — that emphasized the importance of vocational education for the future information society. These prognostic positions are included in the National Doctrine for Educational Development, approved by the Second All - Ukrainian Congress of Education Workers and approved by the Presidential Decree. Certainly, those fundamental positions that in the past have determined the development of a professional world are undergoing major changes in the 21st century. Throughout the whole period of the operation of trade and technology, its sole goal of providing skilled workers with the national agricultural sector was often absolute. Today, the purpose of this system is greatly expanded and envisions the creation of conditions for professional self - realization, satisfying its needs for professional, educational services throughout life. It is understandable that such an approach will help to ensure the economic needs of highly skilled workers. As a result, vocational education should be seen not only as a component of the social sphere, but as a sector deeply integrated into the economy. The reproduction of the country’s skilled labour resources depends on its effective functioning. Despite the difficult conditions of the first decade of the development of an independent Ukrainian state, the system of vocational education has been largely preserved, its modernization has begun, the main directions of which have been determined by the President's decree of 8 May 96. In the early and mid-1990s, some of the schools were shut down or merged with others, but the training of skilled workers remains quite powerful. The Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine is currently under 957 vocational schools. And so let me put it this way, my respectable colleagues, which, by the number of vocational schools and by the number of students in the vocational education system, this system completely meets today's needs, and in fact, we have some difficulties in recent years in recruiting a contingent at the state level. I would like to say that the relationship between professional education and higher education and higher education is getting closer. In recent years, there has been a transition from uniformity to a variety of educational institutions and to a real degree in vocational education. This academic year, in various regions of Ukraine, there are 94 professional leaders already operating -- a new type of vocational and technical institution that focuses primarily on the preparation of a developed personality, professionally prepared for effective work in market economy conditions. Most of the educational institutions of this system that provide vocational training based on basic schooling are, at the same time, performing and performing the role of one of the primary schools’ profiles. In 146 higher vocational schools, and this is also a new phenomenon for Ukraine, and also in vocational and technical education centres, students can gain a modern job and an educational qualification for younger professionals. These things we started literally two or three years ago. The best vocational schools in higher education have the opportunity to train younger professionals. Vocational and technical schools are part of the structure of the 70th science complexes. The introduction of cross-educational programs allows for a significant reduction in the training of higher education professionals. Today, some 500,000 students and listeners are being trained in vocational schools. Forty-seven thousand of them are graduates of public education schools, about 18,000 from the employment service, 5,000 from the production sector are increasing their qualifications. Two thirds of the students along with the profession receive full general education. Each other acquires two or more professions during the course of his studies that increase their mobility in the labor market. You can keep track of the slides, Your Honor. I'm not going to stop directly. There are visual materials. Every year, educational institutions provide production and services to over a quarter of a million graduates. Last year, 282,000 were sent. Modern vocational education also performs important social protection functions for teenagers, and I would like to stop at this separately. Yes, there are 11.2 thousand orphans in the institutions of this system, which are growing annually. Let's say there were 5,000 people in 1996. 131 thousand children in need of additional social support and 3.8 thousand children in need of physical and mental adjustment. The number of such children has also increased by one third in recent years. The professional training of these teenagers, like all students in vocational and technical schools, is a prerequisite for ensuring their future employment and is geared towards adaptation in their own lives. The modern realities of our society require that this function be preserved under the social protection function of trade and technology. And in our view, there is a need for legislative provisions, a significant increase in funding to sustain these children’s nutrition and specific targeted assistance. In solving a complex set of problems related to the formation of modern manufacturing staff, it should be emphasized that the system of vocational and technical education is not just vocational schools subordinated to the Ministry of Education and Science. More than one and a half thousand vocational and technical institutions of other forms of ownership and subordination also provide vocational training for citizens. In 33 classrooms, say, Minagropolitics annually train about 20,000 skilled workers for the agricultural sector of the economy. More than 26,000 workers have improved their qualifications. Much has also been done by the Ministry of Transport, the State Committee on Construction and Architecture, other ministries that have preserved the network of vocational training institutions. Modern production requires highly skilled and highly productive professionals able to adapt to rapid social and economic changes. The only way to give people knowledge, to produce the skills and skills needed for active work is to ensure that they have access to quality vocational education throughout their lives. And I would like to say that here, Ukraine is very, very far away from other developed countries in the world. There are literally two indicators: for example, in Germany, up to 40 percent of the adult population at the same time, in the United States, up to 60 percent of the adult population is educated. Restoring and expanding the professional training of workers directly in production is an extremely important condition for improving their effectiveness. An example of this is the activity of enterprises such as Krivoriztal, the Nitrogen Association, the 61st Communario Shipbuilding Plant, the Novokramator Engineering Plant, where a proper educational and manufacturing base was created. And this is directed at the professional training of the workers. In 2001 alone, 307,000 workers were employed directly in production, and 857 thousand improved their qualifications. The formation in our nation's labour market has given rise to another function of vocational education -- training, upgrading and retraining of the unemployed. Drinking the weight of those who study at employment centers is up to 15 percent of the total number of people who are registered as unemployed. It was only in the vocational and technical institutions of the Ministry of Education and Science that 163,000 of these citizens were trained last year. Today, there is a need to organize vocational training in the discipline system and to expand vocational training for children and adults with special needs. Presidential decree of 23 May 2001 established the All-Ukrainian Center for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in the Kyiv region. It teaches more than one thousand students, who have the right conditions for physical and social rehabilitation and the acquisition of employment. As we can see, the system of vocational education, the esteemed colleagues, the distinguished national MPs, is a rather large and complex set of problems. Their solution needs real government policy, coordination of all branches of government and legislative security. We're saying that the state has basically created a legal and regulatory field for the development of vocational and technical education. The Ukrainian Act on Vocational and Technical Education, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 1998, was the first direct act of education. More than 20 legal acts have been developed to implement it by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Education and Science, other interested ministries and central executive bodies. It is known that since the adoption of this law, five years have passed, social changes have taken place in the socio-economic development of the state and in the professional world itself. And that's why there's an urgent need to update the law on vocational and technical education and other laws, such as education, general secondary education, higher education, general military duty and military service in the area of improving vocational education, ensuring the future. The content, the creation of new types of vocational and technical institutions, the expansion of their functions in postgraduate education, the creation and activities of science and technology institutions. It is also relevant to improve governance at all levels, to improve the financing and training of workers and their resources, to provide real social guarantees to students and graduates of vocational and technical institutions. I think that in view of the social protection of those who are learning in the vocational education system, we have not done much yet. What's more, if you analyze the composition of those who are learning, more than 50 percent, it's either children who are orphans, or those who are in single-parent families, or children from disadvantaged families, or children from very poor families. It needs to be addressed at the legislative level with regard to the taxation of these educational establishments and their educational activities, the management of property, the participation of employers in vocational education, their responsibility for the updating and growth of the professional qualifications of manufacturing staff, the inclusion of state-owned vocational and technical institutions in the credit system, such as the agricultural profile PTU, at the level of other agricultural producers. It is appropriate to amend Ukraine's Land Code to include vocational and technical educational institutions in the list of organizations whose land is not privatized. The relevant proposals are prepared by the profiling committee, with which we work closely, and we hope that they will be supported by the Supreme Council. According to the results of the analysis, at regional, sectoral and national levels, the state of the system of vocational education, its pace and depth do not yet meet the needs of the Ukrainian society and economy. The absence of a scientifically sound estimate for the development of the labour market is hampered by the development of proven future plans for the training of skilled workers by career. This has a negative impact on the process of retraining schools, taking into account the needs of the labour market. As a result, many graduates are unable to get a job. And the legislative solution to the issue of the first job of a graduate of a vocational and technical institution has not yet been solved. Although I must admit that the problem of job placement is directly linked to the state of our economy. Dear colleagues and distinguished national MPs! There's a special exhibition on the third floor for today's hearings from vocational and technical education. I invite you to take a break to see this show, but the question -- what percentage -- let's say the graduates are working -- was very nice to hear, let's say, from the head of the Cremencucci trade union about it. That last year, an application from machine builders, from other companies, was higher than the ability of the city's industry to give personnel to work. And this is a very positive phenomenon, although, unfortunately, it's not everyday. Deficiencies in the content of professional learning from. changes in the economy reduces its quality. For a number of reasons. One is the lack of adequate funding. We're, let me put it in a self-critical way in the development of national standards for trade and technology. Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of August 17, 2002, which sets out the requirements for State standards only as a first step. And to solve this problem, we need to find all the resources and opportunities to combine the efforts of employers, professionals, educators, and scientists. Dear colleagues! The modernization of the vocational and technical education of its innovative development is played by teaching staff. The analysis shows that negative trends in human resources in all regions of Ukraine have increased. They are related to the fact that many highly skilled teachers and craftsmen have moved to work in other structures, where wages are much higher. As a result, 10 percent of the vacancies of teachers and 15 percent of the masters of manufacturing training were created. In view of the apparent aging of the teaching staff of the educational institutions, this problem will worsen further in the future. These problems can be solved only by introducing decent pay and identifying modern ways of preparing and shaping the career of teachers in the vocational education system. The Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, APN Ukraine completes the concept of pedagogical education, works out proposals to expand the network of faculties in higher education institutions to train teachers in vocational training. We come from the fact that in each of the regions of Ukraine, that is, in one or more areas, there should be faculties in the educational or other higher education institutions, where both teachers and masters of manufacturing training for the vocational education system of a given region should be prepared. Another acute problem is the resource and material and technical provision of vocational education. Of course, improving the quality of the training of workers, given the increased demands for their professional qualifications and competence, cannot be done without the appropriate level of funding for the educational process. Unfortunately, we have to say that almost 10 years ago, as a practical and technical base of vocational and technical education, is not being substantially updated, and very often, the learning process is being done by using technologies that are already practically obsolete and not being used or are not being used effectively enough in the national economy. Of course, there is a problem with budget funding constraints. The budgets of vocational education in recent years have been more focused on supporting the area than on providing it with a modern, especially in terms of material and technical security, species, because 60 percent of the expenditure is a payroll and only 11 percent is the provision of a learning process. As for the substantial increase in the funding of vocational and technical education from the state budget in the current year, it is the first to increase the minimum wage. In our country, the leaders of various manufacturing sectors need to be very aware as soon as possible that the training of a modern expert is a costly process that requires considerable material, financial, and intellectual costs for society. Budget funding now remains the key to ensuring the work of vocational and technical institutions. Unlike the previous decades, specific aid from manufacturing structures has almost completely ceased. I'll remind you that earlier, more than 60 percent of the drop-outs in the system were either at the expense of direct investment or through the provision of appropriate technology by professional and technical schools. In the new socio-economic environment, the links between schools and human resources contractors have broken down, and the new mechanism for the interaction of vocational education institutions with employers is missing, there is no legal basis for the creation of such a mechanism. It should be emphasized that in the labour market, modern models of the trade - education economy are needed, and they depend on solving financial problems in the development of the sector. It is known that multichannel and multi-level financing has been established in all highly developed countries of the world. For example, from the state budget, it is possible to finance state-wide labour training programs, and local budgets could cover social programs. I don't understand why, according to our legislation, which defines the budget and other financial transactions, the impossible financing of vocational education, higher education, other educational institutions, science from several sources? It's a good thing that in recent years the institutes have increased their attention to educational and manufacturing activities. During the past year alone, production and services have been made in schools and farms for 30 million years. That's right. But look, respectable friends, in Kiev, Donetsk, Zaporzik, Lugansk, Lviv, were transferred to the tax and compulsory taxes establishments for more than 2 million dollars to the budget. That's right. Poor PTUs should still compete in such a direct way with those manufacturing establishments, manufacturing institutions that specialize in producing one or the other. And here we hope for balanced legislative decisions. Turning to the problem of quality vocational education, I consider it appropriate to declare that this goal cannot be achieved without the use of modern information technology. And in this regard, I would like to propose and ask the Supreme Council to support the creation of a special programme, a government computerization program, the information of vocational and technical institutions and the introduction of a special line in the budget next year for this purpose. Dear colleagues, we also need to improve the management of the vocational education system. At the national level, an inter-branch council on trade and technology has been established. It is headed by Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Dmitry Vadimovich Tobacco, and a clear plan has been developed to resuscitate the institution. In our opinion. should support the experience of Kharkiv, Zaporez region, where regional councils work effectively on these issues. We believe that such councils are appropriate in every area of the problem of vocational education. This will help to coordinate the activities of all those involved in the training of highly qualified workers. Dear colleagues, I would like to conclude by saying that the National Education Doctrine of the Ministry of Education and Science, along with the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences, has developed a concrete plan of action, the development of a national concept for the development of vocational education, regional programmes for the training of skilled workers in modern science and technology, the development of textbooks and teaching textbooks of a new generation has been intensified. Other steps are being taken to provide more effective social protection for participants in the educational process of providing conditions for the professional growth of teachers. But in our view, the problems of developing vocational education should become a priority for all those who have relationships in different spheres, to the leadership of different branches of government. And we want to report that these problems will necessarily be reflected in the government’s agenda, and we are confident that they will find support from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for oral questions. Did you get the letter, Vasil Grigorovitch? Go ahead, answer me, and we'll write it down on our lips.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u4	Honorable National MPs, distinguished colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u5	Light up, please. Not much. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u6	I'd like to say that from the MP's faction "Our Ukraine" came the question: "What is the state of the provision of vocational and technical schools by native textbooks, especially language, year, place of publication and printing?" A close question from the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, which is the "Ecology" discipline. I'd like to say, my fellow dignitaries, that the Ministry and the Academy of Pednaks will consider a promising plan for the preparation of manuscripts, textbooks and teaching aids of a new generation and form appropriate copyright teams. Since 1996, 108 textbooks have been published. You can look at the graph. All the textbooks are published in Ukraine by such publications as "High School," "Libydium", "Technique", "Oriana", "Livov", etc. The manuscripts of the 101st textbook are being prepared for publication today. Their publication is scheduled for this year, but it will depend on what funding will be provided under this article. As far as environmental studies are concerned, the curriculum of vocational and technical institutions has introduced the subject "Biology, the Foundation of Ecology". A training program has been developed, manuals have been issued, and a state summary evaluation of this subject is carried out. By the way, you can also see new textbooks, distinguished national MPs, on the third floor of the exhibition.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u7	Bronnnikov Vladimir Kostinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u8	[[Bronnikov, "Regions" faction, 81st constituency, Zaporozhye]] Dear Vassili Grigoryevich, you have rightly said that it is difficult for businesses to cooperate with institutions of vocational education. You hand over the machine, and the agency has to pay taxes. Second. You're going to have your staff retraining -- and not much you have to pay for his income education, but this person still has to pay the income tax because he's kind of getting a gift. Is there anything that the Government is doing to go out with the bill, to eliminate all of these setbacks that are ruining the prospect of developing the quality of the labour force in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u9	Thank you. That's a very good question. We sense its importance, its importance. Stanisław Mikolaiovich Nikolayenko will probably tell you about it. But as far as I know, there are appropriate proposals to make changes to the legislation in that part to help ensure that businesses have the opportunity to pass on technology and otherwise help the system of vocational education. What I'm saying is, my esteemed colleagues, let's say in Germany, one of the first examples of new technology is going into the system based on our definition of vocational education. Because it's convenient for the manufacturer, and it's convenient for anyone. That's what we were talking about at the hearings. They've been making dry mixes in the building business lately. But there are companies that produce dry mixtures and implement, and they say, "We have a problem with implementation, we see a narrow place because the footage is not ready to use these dry mixtures." And we decided together to make special changes in the building professions to prepare it. So here's the mutual benefit for both sides. We would ask the national deputies to support these changes. Thank you. Questions from the Committee of the Supreme Council on Science and Education Is the Government of Ukraine anticipating and retraining at national and sectoral levels to improve the network of vocational and technical institutions? I'd like to say that there are appropriate complex measures for the formation of a degree in vocational and technical education, specialization and retraining of vocational and technical institutions approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. There are programs to improve the network of vocational and technical schools by 2004, also agreed by the government. There are regional programmes for the development of vocational and technical education, as well as, in some cases, for the provision of district or city government programmes as well. I'd like to say that we think that the number of vocational and technical schools should stay about that level. It's different. We're moving to a multi-stage system of vocational education. I've already told you, professional licenses are being created and higher vocational schools are being built. Next. We come to the conclusion that in the big cities, in Kiev, in the district cities, we have to go through the path of specializing in vocational and technical schools. But in small cities where there's a limited, or even one, two vocational and technical educational institutions, we need somewhere to meet the need for the labour force of the entire industry, all the production that's in the district city, the center and the area. This is how we're going to do it, and we're definitely going to do it in close contact with our Science and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u10	David’s Ludmila Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u11	Thank you. Please pass the word to the vice-deputy Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u12	Good afternoon. Smooth, 179th District, Hard Ukraine faction. You tell it all well and so well, but if, when we're in the district, there's a sad image and a sad notion of CTU. First. This is because, to date, the village of Petrovsky has been cut off from electricity and heat completely by PTU in the Balakleev region. Children cannot and cannot learn there. The same was warned by the Barvenkovsky and Pervomayan SPT for disconnection. There was no funding for January. So you can say anything, a theory, but you have to actually deal with these kids. After all, we have children who are no longer able or able to teach their parents anywhere. And I would still like you, as Minister, to pay more attention to that. That's the first question. And the second question. That's what the textbooks say. 30 per cent of textbooks are available on average in schools. Thank you. I want you to give me a normal answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u13	Thank you for asking. As far as the latter is concerned, your data is incorrect. The number of textbooks is about 70 percent, but really not enough in schools, I mean. As far as the system of vocational education is concerned. I did not specifically dwell on this question that you raised, knowing that there would be a question, and I would be able to say it. Yes, unfortunately, one of the biggest problems today is the heat-, energy-, utilities of the system of vocational education. What did we do? Over the last three years, even through the higher education system, there has been an increase in funding for the vocational education system for this purpose. Unfortunately, though, in previous years there has been virtually no year for a 100 - percent budget line to be executed on this issue. And secondly, the budget lines themselves did not meet the needs of the vocational education system. What must we do today not to speak but to do the real thing? First. I would ask all of you, if you were to distribute capital investments for this year, to figure out a fairly decent amount for the modernization of the energy-, the heat-, the supply-, the supply-of-profit system. It's a very energy-intensive subsystem today. And if we do that, we'll save a lot of money in the future. Let's do this in this year. The other one. Of course, the government made a decision on mutuality by April 1st and May 1st. There is hope and confidence that by March 15 we will be able to make these mutual advances. I'd like to say that in the last year, we didn't get money for utilities until December, either, as they say, but we've made a mutual account of 72 million. The Ministry of Education and Science is like nothing else on the 35 million vocational education systems. But for 15 million documents we filed, but unfortunately, it was not our fault that we failed to do so. So I'm absolutely in solidarity with the fact that this is a disgraceful phenomenon, that today, since the electrical supply of whole vocational and technical schools, or that we are partially shut down, that we now have such a system when a 5-time fine is imposed, and we have to do it as soon as possible, but we can do it together to end this disgraceful phenomenon. As for the near future, once again, I want to reiterate that the government has made decisions on the interrelationships in the near future they will be fully implemented. I'd like to point out that all the schools except those in quarantine are working, but you're really right, that a lot of the factories are partially disconnected from the energy supply system. [[And they're far more than a hundred.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u14	It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u15	The MP's faction of our Ukraine. "Today, in vocational and technical education institutions, about half of the student composition -- orphans and half-orphans, children from low-income families, with physical and mental disabilities. How is this taken into account in the organization of vocational training provided that special requirements and social adaptation are met in the organization of the educational and educational processes of this socially vulnerable category?".. And here's a question for the Science and Education Committee. "What are we supposed to do in social protection for such children?" Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons "What is being done to create the right conditions for the integrated learning of persons with disabilities in Ukrainian vocational and technical institutions? What measures are being taken by the government in terms of providing free food, scholarships?" And again, orphans. This is a question of the Human Rights Committee, national minorities and inter-national relations. Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! The vocational education system performs important functions, I said, in terms of social protection for individual categories of teenagers. Unfortunately, the number of such children is increasing each year, and you can see 6 graphs of the materials that are given to you. These students, according to the relevant decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, are provided with a scholarship of 34 bracelets and free meals. Special attention is paid to orphans and children with disabilities. Yes, orphans are fully held at the expense of the state budget, i.e. they are provided with scholarships, other payments, housing, food, clothing, household items, personal hygiene, rest and recovery. In Ukraine's state budget for this year, the amount of spending on scholarship and orphan children has increased by more than 6 million dollars, although again, this is very little more. Once again, however, extremely low standards and actual funding do not allow these children to be kept at a better level. In order to address the problems of social rehabilitation and adaptation, the active involvement of children with disabilities in social life has been initiated with the creation of work on the basis of trade-offs in various areas of rehabilitation centres for young people in need of physical and mental development correction. So far, four such rehabilitation centres have been established in the Dnipropetrov region, and vocational training of children with disabilities is being done in the schools of Kyiv, Lviv, Kharkiv and other areas. I would like to say that a decree issued by the President of Ukraine on May 23, 2001, created the All-Ukrainian Center for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in the Kyiv region. And I've already told you in the report that there are children with physical and mental disabilities who are being trained in this and also in three other Minpraci sites in Ukraine. But, dear fellows, I'd like to be honest with you. That those norms, that the actual standards that are laid down in the relevant food documents, in terms of clothing security and so forth, are now significantly behind and the government intends to review such standards in the near future towards increasing them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u16	Belarus Oleg Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u17	Oleg Belarus. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u18	Kirilchuk's microphone. Please turn on Kirilchuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u19	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Eugene Kirilchuk, Yulia Block Timoshenko, faction and the Fatherland Party. Dear Vassil Grigorovovich, I have a lot of questions, but you will probably agree that the system of vocational and technical education and its level reflect that level of government to each other, because you can see that level and that kind of trouble in the professional world. But I have specific questions and very short questions. First. Why are you reporting, not the Deputy Prime Minister? You can't sign up for a field of vocational education, which is order, you don't do it, you report it. We haven't heard from you in your report, but where better is it with you or the branches or other ministries? The other one. Already in the state, 50 percent of all production is privatized, and today it is only about State funding for all vocational and technical schools. What percentage of finance comes from these private enterprises compared with government enterprises? And the last third, baby. Tell me, isn't it worth making a separate ministry, department, department to run this whole business today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u20	Thank you for asking. As for the first part, why I'm reporting, not the vice-premier, first of all, from a formal point of view, is the task of directing the government on this. And from a substantive point of view, I think that's the right thing to do, because the Ministry of Education and Science is the Ministry of Commitment, in the distribution of responsibilities, that is the Ministry of Education and Science. And I would like to say that virtually all state-owned vocational and technical institutions are in the Ministry of Education and Science system, so there are no contradictions. Where better? I'd like to say that it's better where they're kept in some way or other the relationship of a vocational and technical institution that's subordinated to the Ministry of Education and Science, with a large enterprise, especially if it's a large enterprise right now on the rise. I could say, this is also the Novokramator Machine Factory, which was the CEO of a conference related to innovation policy, very well told about it, and a whole bunch of others, I actually called Krivorizstal, and second and third. And I think we should go this way. Next is the participation of private owners in financing. I would like to say that both public and private are participating today only on sponsoring terms. And this participation is very, very small. In private, it is even smaller than in the state, because the public has some historical memory, some informal contacts, and, sadly, today those who do not care about the day after tomorrow are worried about today. Therefore, we would ask for such legislative preconditions to motivate both state-owned and non-State-owned owners to participate in the financing of the system of vocational education. I told you that during the Soviet period, more than 60 percent of the drop-outs in vocational education came from real production. I think there's an opportunity for us to make these changes to legislation. And the last. It's about creating a committee, a ministry or something. I'd like to say my opinion. In any country of the world, whether in Russia or France or Germany, I don't know what else to call it, there's no Ministry of Trade and Technology, there's no special body. There's a whole system of education, and in this case, as well as Germany. France, Kazakhstan are education and science. And it's vocational and technical education that's part of the education system. It's closely related to high school, and I'd say it's also in parallel to the function of a professional senior school. And in the system, one allows you to do it this way. So that better graduates of vocational education will go to second grade technicum, better technicum graduates in second or third grade university, and get a better education. That's why there's no need. The other thing is to strengthen that part of the Ministry of Education and Science that deals with the issue of vocational education. If earlier, when there was a committee, the State Committee of Human Resources in the Soviet period, there were 170 to 180, I think, employees on this committee, today there are 17 people working at the Ministry of Education and Science in the Ministry of Vocational Education. The Department consists of 17 men. If you think others are eating, there are 27 people in the high school, where there are 700 higher education institutions. The science is done by 50 people. Because the whole department from janitor to minister is 291 people. It's not the economy we should go to at all. That's my answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u21	Letters, please. Please give me a more concise answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u22	Letters. Thank you, fine. But the question is long enough, but I'm going to cut it short. Ukrainian Communist Party MP: "When will the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine solve the problem of providing the first job for graduates of the trade institutes?".. "Democratic Initiatives" groups: "What's the job situation with the graduates?" Science and Education Committee: "Is the Government of Ukraine anticipating at national and sectoral levels the need to train professionals?" The Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities: "What are we going to do with the government's forecasting of government procurement?" Again. Dear colleagues, the obligation to give first place to graduates of vocational schools is determined by legislative and other legal acts. We need to make the right decisions at the legislative level, and then we'll have the opportunity to do so. Second, about employment. Today, according to our estimates, 73 to 80 percent of the graduates are employed by the young people who join the army. But it's the average temperature in the hospital. There are factories, I said, 100 percent, and there's much less. What are we doing? We are very dynamic in changing professional training and the direction of it in different educational institutions. No, virtually, refusal to run a factory has no basic prerequisites for preparing professionals in a different direction that has perspectives. Our government order has stabilized in recent years. It's 225,000 people, and we think we need to keep it at that level. In doing so, I would like to say again: We have some serious problems in some areas in filling out this government order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u23	Please, Klimpus Oreste Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u24	Orest Klimpush, People's Landing Group, Zakarpatsk district, Rahiv electoral district. Mr. Secretary, you probably know what a high unemployment rate is in Zakarpat. The majority of the working population from March to October in search of work around the world drive. And in your data, there's no PTU, there's no PTSD in the Zakarpatsky area, there's no population retraining, there's no retraining. I'd like to ask why and what your position is, how you can fix this situation. And the second question. You know, for this country, the production of traditional mountain products, the hutzulian industries: embroidery, carving is practically lost direction. The only way to rebuild this country is through tourism when tourists arrive and buy these souvenirs. There used to be special schools such, carving schools were, embroidery, other industries. Don't you think it's necessary in these mountain areas to re-create such vocational and technical institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u25	Thank you, distinguished national MP, for the right question. As far as the Zacarpathian trade facility network and the function you're talking about are concerned, I think that virtually every vocational and technical institution, apart from training professionals on the basis of incomplete secondary or full secondary education, should also be doing retraining. This does not necessarily require the creation of separate vocational and technical schools. We have to just, and there are progressive trends in terms of the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour and the corresponding structure that is involved in retraining labour, but we still have to keep going as far as possible so that as much of the funds that are allocated for retraining go to vocational and technical institutions. Because it'll be better prepared than a temporary course. So that depends to a large extent on the local head of the vocational and technical institute and according to the sparring partner in the employment department. As for the folk industry and all that, well, I think we haven't lost these traditions, and I'm asking you to go up to the third floor at the break, and you'll see the exhibitions there, really, I don't think I know Zacarpathian is or not. But I agree that we have to make an effort here. So we went to Mukachevo, if you know, Mr. Klimpush, we created an institute on the basis of a technology that was previously the Institute of the Academy of Applied Arts of the Lions. And we continue this work in Zakarpat, in the region of Ivano-Frankiv, in the region of Lviv. We accept your question as a task for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u26	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u27	Again, the issue of the Communist Party faction as to how employers’ funds are involved. Further, Democratic Initiatives also refers to improving the relationship between PTNZ and production. And the Special Privatization Supervisory Commission is again talking about the need for the involvement of funds allocated for retraining of personnel for activities in vocational and technical institutions. I'd like to say, respectfully, and questions, that means, the Human Rights Committee, national minorities, inter-national relations: the return of funds to enterprises due to the training of specialists in the economics of the state. I have answered these questions in part. I would like to say the following, once again, a proper legislative base is needed. Because when we approach individuals, we say to others: Please help a particular educational institution. We're told, and we're paying taxes, that's taxes for the preparation of the labour force. So it's all about the preparation of appropriate legislative projects that I think we have made on the committee of science and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u28	Vernon Leonid Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u29	Dear Vassil Grigorovich! To me. I am. The socialist party of the faction of Ukraine and you know that our faction, like the whole party, is constantly looking after the fate of vocational and technical education and its students. Please give me that answer. How have you not been set up by the system of labor reserves that operated in our country? You know, on time, we have an acceptance of 5, or maybe a 10-year plan for the reconstruction of the Ukrainian people's agriculture after this destruction, which we've been leading in 10 years to market reforms. Yes, do you know how many people you need today in the professions of people, how many are missing or are there programs? And why did you agree to conduct the hearing today in such an environment? Look who's in the government's bed. Why isn't she cracking at the customers for your product? Why isn't there an energy minister who doesn't heat 200 of these PTUs today? Why isn't there an agrarian minister? Why aren't there any builders? Why is Mr. Tobacco there today taking people all the time while you're here answering our questions? I wish he'd stood up and answer for you. You don't want to tell the truth that today's break-up in our system of vocational education. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u30	Thank you, distinguished national MP. As for the collapse, rumors of the death of the professional world are exaggerated. That's what I'd say. If adequate modern funding, multichannel funding, were to be available soon, we would be able to work things out. We've maintained a material and technical base, but we need to update it. We need to raise wages for those who work. We need to raise social protection. I mean, it's all about funding. About the previous system. Well, if you know, if you're watching, if you've heard me speak, I've never done anything, and I'm not going to do a naked denial of the past. I've always said that the past should be taught both positive and negative. So, from the point of view of this system of things, there was a lot of positive things that were lost, to the great regret. First of all, it's the participation of employers in the system of trade and technology. This time. And the concern of employers about appropriate improvements in production skills. That's what neither the Ministry of Education nor Science can do, nor the creation of any new committees or anything like that. I think the second one is waking up more and more, especially where production is starting to increase. As for the first one, I want to say it again. We need to adapt the activities of the factories, especially in the part of the financing to the market economy. And this is our joint work with the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council. I know that the Science and Education Committee, which is headed by your faction, is a consistent committee, a structure in this respect. And I think that by working together, we can do this in a way that makes the system of trade and education in Ukraine adequate to the needs of the Ukrainian economy and to the needs of the Ukrainian economy, and adequate to the demands that we face from industrial to scientific and information production, which is already in place in the developed countries of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u31	Written questions. Dear colleagues, please let the invited listen to what is being said in the hall. Gregory Dashutin. Please allow the Deputy Prime Minister to listen. Dmitri Volodymyrovich, we need to conclude negotiations there. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u32	The People's Authority MP. What measures are being taken to strengthen the financial autonomy of vocational and technical institutions and to improve their financial security accordingly. And now the faction of the Socialist Party. Why it's now moving away from the power supply of a professional technical facility, I've partly spoken and paid fines on a five-fold scale, and I'll say it in part. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that today, additional funding for professional and technical institutions other than state institutions is being made only at the expense of rent, and that is 40 percent of what we have been paying for this year. The second channel is manufacturing. It grows every year in schools. But once again, I repeat, they're placed in condition as a normal manufacturer and certainly they can't compete with the ordinary manufacturer, and here we're also asking for appropriate solutions at the legislative level. In terms of perspective, we think that we should necessarily eliminate this unreasonable absolutely, in my opinion, the rule that an institution that is financed from one budget cannot be financed from another budget. Why not put together, for example, funding a vocational and technical institution in one area and another from the central budget and from the local budget, all the more so, because the local budget often has the opportunity and needs, but the legislative obstacles prevent it. So I think we need to expand, like they say, these horns and how can we quickly create the best conditions for and make money through our own vocational and technical training facility, and so that sponsors have the ability to sponsor either as a cost or as a manufactured product, technology, technology or any other professional and technical teaching facility. As far as energy supply is concerned, I've already told you. I'd like to emphasize once again the totally negative own attitude towards this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u33	Hare Ivan Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u34	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Dear Vasil Grigorovich, I have two questions for you. First. There's a lot of signals coming to me and my colleagues about the lack of funding for vocational and technical institutions. For example, I'm going to go to Volinsky. During the first two months of the current year, the financing of the Wall’s labour force for energy supplies alone is 8.8 percent of budget assignments, no amount is allocated for heating and water supply. When it comes to eating, it is the same. How do you feel about changing the principle of financing these institutions at the level of the state budget, namely, to allocate a separate line of funding for these institutions? And the second question. In recent times, processes of deukrineization have been observed in the language of higher education institutions, schools, and vocational schools. What system of action has been developed by the Cabinet of Ministers and will be implemented to remedy this situation, so that Ukrainian language can take over as a national language because there is no patriotism without patriotism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u35	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. First of all, I would like to say that wages, scholarships, and nutrition, Ivana Alexandrovich, are also 100 percent funded in the first two months. Indeed, the cost of living supplies for a third, the problems with electricity, the payment of natural gas. Although those vocational schools that, say, use coal or other fuels that are not vulnerable to each other, we financed. So it's not a separate line, it's a matter of protecting these articles in the same way as paying for their work. That's the first one. The other one. The increase, once again, the increase in expenditure on these articles in the first year and, especially, the important thing is that it invests in the upgrading of energy, electricity, heat and so on. As far as deukrineization is concerned. Ivan Aleksandrovitch, I want to say that I do not agree with you in principle. So any area of education has a positive trend in development and in the use of Ukrainian. Yes, there are problems, especially in certain areas. But if we had 49.7 percent of high school students in Ukraine in 1990, we are now approaching 75 percent. I told you, if we didn't have a textbook in Ukraine before, then it's been published, I've already said, about a hundred, they're all in Ukrainian, and we're ready to publish a hundred with something. The same applies to higher education. There are problems, but you don't have to close your eyes that there's a positive movement, and we have to support it in every way, with all our efforts. Here you are, the distinguished national deputies, who have accepted the text of the Anthem of Ukraine, thank you very much for that. We've prepared a command that all schools will study hymns, learn songs, put relevant texts in certain textbooks from Ukrainian literature, language, history in all classes. And we're going to work in that direction. There is a need, not to put ashes on one’s head and try to blame someone, but to put up sleeves and work together rather than point to the guilty. No one from the center, one person can solve this problem, you know, John Alexanderovich, and you need to work harder, including you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u36	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, the Special Committee on Privatization, the Democratic Initiatives MP: "Is the government conducting a study of labour market needs to train professionals in new activities where the level of professionalism of employed workers is not yet sufficient -- advertising, information technology, small businesses and so on? And how many new specialties have been added to the PTNZ curriculum in the last few years?" Not to be very broad, I'll say, in 2002 there were over 30,000. persons have acquired new occupations directly in the production sector according to the needs of employers. I'd like to say that in the 2001-2002 school year, training was done: we have 990 jobs, of which 652 are complex or integrated. This is five percent more than the previous school year. The new professions that we started in the last literal period are supply agents, a tourist agent, a national deputy, a farm worker, a computer set operator, a social worker, and so forth. I'd like to say that in the last period, there's been an increase in machine-building training because there's been demand. Let's say a software-operated press operator -- growth plus seven hundred, construction and service -- plus 8200. It's been reduced, it's interesting to track down, prepare accountants, accountants, secretary heads for almost 3,000 people. Already there is reproduction in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u38	Please, Polyakova.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u39	Larissa Polakov, Hard Ukraine faction. Please give the floor to the National Deputy Bauer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u40	Bauer's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u41	Michael Bauer, electoral district 204, Hard Ukraine faction. Dear Vassil Grigorovich, I wanted to speak very much, and in a week, I've entered the 21st on the list, and it's clear that the turn won't come. So there are two questions. First, do you support the initiative of vocational schools to create higher education complexes? And the second question is, what is the role of other ministries and authorities in the management of trade and technology? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u42	Dear Mikhail Josefovich, I would like to thank you for the question and for the pain of this as an education as a whole, you are a professional educator. As far as complexes are concerned, I think, in general, where there is mutual agreement and initiative, it needs to be supported. The only thing I'm insisting on, and recently I've been talking in the general college, where this was among other things about university and college complexes, which should have been properly represented in the interests of both institutions, so that one school, generally older than the level of accreditation, would not use another educational institution to meet its needs. If there is mutual, as it were, satisfaction of interest, then I am fully and ready to continue to support it. As far as the role of other ministries is concerned, I think that ministries, in accordance with their functions, should definitely be involved in the work of the vocational education system. I have already named some of the ministries, and I could say again, which are quite active in this, although, again, it is often difficult for them to make decisions in connection with legislative obstacles. Let's say they can't induce an enterprise subordinated to their ministry to help a particular vocational and technical institution. And so improving the legislative support of vocational and technical institutions is also important in terms of cooperation with other ministries in the preparation of human resources for the relevant sectors. Thank you. Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u43	It's just very tight. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u44	The Committee of the Supreme Council on Construction, Transport, and Communications "When can you expect the introduction of a draft Ukrainian Professional Training Act for the Enterprise to be reviewed by the Supreme Council?" Yeah, so I'd like to say that we're about ready in November to submit an appropriate law approved by the Cabinet of Ministers on the professional training of personnel at the company. And I think he's going to help solve the issues that we're talking about here, from providing this work at the enterprise level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u45	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u46	Thank you, distinguished national deputies, for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u47	For the co-report, the word is given to the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Nikolainka Stanislav Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u48	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs, members of the government, all Ukrainian citizens. National MPs, members of the Committee on Science and Education, inviting Parliament to listen to the government about the state and prospects of trade and education, meant, first of all, to draw the attention of the State, all its segments to the crisis situation in this area, to examine the reason for this and, above all, to give the answer: what should we do, how to move this system, in the wind, or against the wind, or, as the English say, where we need to go. I think it's where it's supposed to be. Basil Kremen, minister of education and science, in his reports and answers to questions, outlined the nature of the problem as seen by the ministries. Many of his suggestions coincide with our ideas on how to cope with the crisis. This refers to appropriate changes to legislation and other steps. However, he could not or could not cover the entire range of problems, and his assessment of the situation is somewhat mild and does not always match the realities of the day. But the right was the great philosopher Descartes, who always said, "Truly define the words, and you will rid the world of half the trouble." I'll try to do as much as I can. Our committee has repeatedly analyzed the processes that are taking place in the Queen’s training of young workers in the state of vocational education. The introduction of the U.S. Occupational Education Act in 1998 has somewhat halted the destructive processes in this area, has clearly confirmed the State's intention to take care of this area. And the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, despite the repeated efforts of many government officials to transfer the financing of trade and technology to local budgets, has also allowed communities of educational institutions to survive in these difficult conditions. Russia took this step. Half the schools don't exist. For justice's sake, I'll say that there were the President's orders and the government's orders to support the system. However, these measures did not stop negative trends in the training of the workforce, and questions were raised by deputies in their answers. Why? First of all, because the government, one after the other, has not taken adequate steps to support this important education chain. Now, we're talking about 200 orphanages shut down. There's no Ermil, and there's no one to include them. And so after hearing, everything will remain as it is. And we're saying we're fine. Many high officials view trade as such an unfortunate, unnecessary burden on the budget, some kind of stain of the past, forgetting that without a worker, no society can live. This worldwide view of the role of the system of trade unions has caused serious damage. In the last ten years, we have lost nearly 300 schools. In the capital city alone, tens and a half of complexes have been taken away from young people and so forth: deposit them under banks, tax frauds, and so forth, under prisons. There now, I say, the banks, the militia, the other facilities were located. That is certainly why the number of prisoners increased almost threefold during the same period, and the number of drug addicts and prostitutes reached catastrophic limits. Here we are leaders in Europe. Why was it that the world’s most affected by the so - called reforms? There are objective and subjective factors. First. This, said Vasil Grigorovitch, is the deep integration of trade and technology into manufacturing, the destruction of defence enterprises, the decline of electronics, the collapse of engineering, the crisis in agriculture, they hit hard on basic enterprises, and so on, the workers' training system. In these circumstances, governments have failed or refused to respond to changes in the production structure and have failed to appreciate the role of tradespeople as a reproducing factor in the system of productive forces. Because our country's innovative development model needs a highly skilled workforce, a professional mobile, a competitive workforce. This is where the main task for the labour market system comes from: to provide the economy of the state with qualified, literate personnel that would allow Ukraine to join the integration processes that today characterize the globalisation processes of the world. Is it being implemented today? It's not that far. First of all, I say that virtually no one in the state -- not the Mineconomy, not the Minpraci, not the Minprompolitans, not the Minprom, not the Mingroprom -- can now predict for sure who and how much quality of workers we need for our economy. There are no market mechanisms involved. Businesses and entrepreneurs remained separate from these processes. Look at the paradox in our legislation. If an enterprise upgrades technology or supplies spare parts, these costs refer to gross costs. And if it wants to prepare an engineer or a worker, these costs must come from profit. This law on income taxation is totally false and untrue. And this fact is not a sign of our mistaken attitude, including the Supreme Council's view of the work force being reproduced, the wrong personnel policy? Of course it is. Some authorities, manufacturing officials, claim that a system of vocational education can be avoided today. We have to get rid of this system. In doing so, trade schools are opposed to production preparations. I want to tell you with confidence, these are different things. Some teach and educate minors. Others prepare adults for work. This is about different segments of vocational and technical education. By the beginning of this year, there are 124,000 specialists, almost the majority of whom are workers. At the same time, owners want to have highly professional professionals, and here they will help trade schools, because skilled tossers, hairdressers, locksmiths, who have been trading in markets for several years, do not rush to the presses, they will not be able to. So it is the hope of young people. At the time, there is a decisive change in philosophy in the way specialists are trained, especially in the workplace. You need scientific forecasting, self-renewal, and foreign experience, because the world is out of place, it's constantly updating the form of labor. In all European countries and the United States, such systems work. The United States loses a lot of money and gives it to those educational institutions that train workers, especially if they are employed. But instead of the wise advice of Shevchenk, "and do not turn aside yours, and don't forget yours," we put all the processes of self-employed workers on bitter self-sustainment. Who can disprove me, I will repeat myself when, today, almost during parliamentary hearings, two hundred vocational schools are shut off. I called in dozens, the tea can't be heated, the water can't be drunk, what are we talking about? Why are the positions of heads of districts and sections cut short in educational institutions? How can you raise your children? How can a highly skilled manufacturer be prepared on a press, a mid - century edition? 10 per cent of vocational training requires time. The urgent requirements of our committee, the public, the associations of the workers of the trade unions, neither the government nor the Supreme Council of Ukraine have taken into account the minimum needs of the profession for several years. That the government will introduce a mechanism to the Supreme Council is practically so complex that nothing can be changed. And in this year's budget, only half of the minimum needs are allocated to the energy supply of schools. Pedcollects have forgotten to acquire new technology, and a third of schools need immediate capital repairs. The worst situation in rural schools, like Shevchenka's: "Is there evil in God?" -- where children forgot about heat and light at all. Without new technology, without the support of the State, there was a diabolical part of the lands of educational farms that needed to be privatized to some today. The deficit in the financing of vocational schools is nearly 100 million dollars this year. What we can talk about today's informationization of the learning process is that in 5 years out of 368 manuals and textbooks, only a fourth part is published. I stopped at the economics, at the teaching and manufacturing system and at the vocational education system. But we often forget about the socio-educational role in the system of vocational education. I mean, we're making a big mistake here. Smallpox and social security, the local authorities have no relation to social policy. All the kids, and Vasil Grigorovich said that half of the 500,000 are children from disadvantaged low-income families, only paedcollects care for them. Once every three months, the cost of food came, once every two months, 500 spent on heat, on water, 11,000 orphans, and every day people came and said, “What about feeding these children? ” Here's Olga Kovalenko, a manufacturing teacher from Kiev, who tells me. In her group, where she cooks 30 bras, virtually all children are suffering from ventricular ulcers, these are the defenders of the country, these are our, excuse me, future workers. How can you spend 30 to 50 copies of a person today, a child who came and lived in a dorm within 100 kilometers? How can an orphan spend 3.5 bracelets a day? I can't help but say a few words about the human resources management of the schools. Four and a half thousand teachers and masters are lacking in teams today. And no one's going to go there, because today's salary is 180-190 carbs. And Vladimir Avrumovich Polachenko is going to perform, and he's going to say that she's five times higher in the manufacturing industry. Without human resources, we can't change anything. What is being done? First. We propose, and in those documents, that the MPs in the hands, the President, of the government will finally determine the Supreme Council with the state structure to take care of these problems. In modern times, the department of Minosveti and science, as it is today, is unable to do so. One and a half dozen people and three or four others in each area will not physically exacerbate these problems. No one to talk to the skyscrapers, no one to fight, no one to make deals with entrepreneurs, no one to rule. Thus, organizedness, the classic said, should exert power. At the time of the creation of a committee, an agency, an association, or just as it was when Zyzoun was the minister, there was a committee in the Ministry of Education that would combine the efforts of all ministries and departments, entrepreneurs for the quality preparation and reproduction of the workforce. Now we have, the minister called 970 state and another one and a half thousand other forms of property of vocational schools, 281 inter-school manufacturing units, almost 300,000 workers prepare for production each year. Who is helping them? Who is preparing the programs? Who are the methodological contributors? Nobody! And the quality of our production is the quality of the labor force. To the point of our government opponents that the creation of a separate government body is contrary to the logic of the administration, the market transformations and so on, I'll just say that because there's no one in the country to deal with it, that's why an authority needs it. I have a list from all over Ukraine. There's one CEO, the second and the third, and the Zaporoztals, and the other, they say we need to create such an organ. Today, it is said on all fronts, most of the deputies. Look, he's asking: through. Sulim writes a letter to the President saying, "Someone needs to be taken care of." "Preservation of wood structure." Boyko's asking for backup. The Ukrainian peasants' union is in favor. The All-Ukrainian Union of Agricultural Enterprises - za. The Berdian City Council at the same time. And thousands of such references. And let's play the market today. Now, I'm a spider, so I'm against it, so there's nothing to be done. Do it in this structure to make it normal if you're against the company. You can't do what people say. If the government doesn't once again listen to the opinions of manufacturers, practitioners, national MPs, organizationally does not strengthen the sector -- whatever it chooses -- then the following steps: material, technical, scientific and methodical, informational, social security will simply be done to no one, and all of this will be spoken of. We imagined that a government-created Agency for the Training of Workers could work on government commercial principles by combining separate functions of Minoswits and Science, Minpraci, Mineconomy. Let Minoswiti be organized, no questions asked. Some of his employees would be held at the expense of the budget, some at the expense of commercial activity. There's a thousand and a half private schools -- they'd work with them, they'd be licensed. The Agency could have scientific, methodological, legal, economic centres to help and ensure that these establishments operate independently of the forms of property. Renewal needs to reorganize internal life in every educational institution, democratisation of governance, autonomy and autonomy must be combined with the high competence of managers. Unfortunately, until we see it today. The committee in the draft regulation is proposing to the President, the government, the ministries, the local authorities, to take clear steps to support the trade union. These measures should also serve as the basis for the government’s activity in these areas. We'd like the government to look at the situation in the next few weeks at its meeting, to make changes to a number of government regulations on the activities of educational institutions. It's about reviewing food standards, maintaining orphans, half orphans, standards of teaching and manufacturing, pay. It is not normal for one master to care for two educational institutions, groups, and expenses for only one. School energy limits are needed as a matter of urgency. The penalty has to be lifted. In January-month, the government didn't fund the schools. In February every penny spent on electricity is five times as fines are paid. Don't we understand that?Oh, my God! What does Jermilov have to deal with today? Well, this is a budget institution that's not funded from our guilt. We expect a new quality from the Interbranch Council at the Cabinet of Ministers on the issues of trade and technology, which is headed by Dmitri Tobacco. We think that similar councils should be created in every area, as this is done, by the way, in Kharkiv region. And in areas and cities, we propose to create a board of educational institutions with the participation of representatives of all authorities so that they can be of any use to anyone. I'm done. The Committee, in collaboration with the Ministry of Education, has prepared amendments to a series of trade - education laws by the Association of Occupational Education Workers. We gave them to you. It's about making changes to dozens of laws right now. First of all, I'm here to support the Silicone in the Budget Code. We cannot pray on him today for a holy cow. There's an effort in the Dnipropetrovsky area to help the schools, maybe Omelchenko in Kiev can help, let's let him. We should not assume that the schools are capable of providing for themselves. That's ridiculous. There's secondary education, there's teaching kids. They have to be taught, then they'll work. I think we need to form, start to form a scientifically balanced modern concept of the development of vocational education. We expect more here from the Academy of Pednaks, the National Academy of Sciences, the Ministry of Education and Science. And not only should the discussion go around the name of the system, but the content of the forms and methods of work. Dear colleagues, Deirdre claimed that the previous knowledge of what we are doing is a guarantee of success. Today, we have tried to teach you how to do and what to do. Implementing the proposed changes to the laws, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision clearly defines the system of conceptual ideas and the strategy for the development of vocational education for the next decade. Bringing together the efforts of public authorities at all levels, manufacturing, the public, and the school teams in this important work. From words to deeds! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u49	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Shershun. Please, Mikola Haritonovich. Next Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u50	Mikola Shershun, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Honorable Chief, Honorable Colleagues, Members of the Government! The problems of vocational and technical education in Ukraine are not only educational, because this is the first link between the transition of children to adult life, which is extremely important for the state as a whole, because it is on the way from party to workplace that society loses its active and promising citizens, those who at this very stage need the most attention from the state. In the Plains, for example, out of nearly 10,000 students in vocational and technical institutions, over a quarter are children from many children of disadvantaged families, orphans and half-orphans. The first problem is the feeding of these students, since last year they had only 15 copies a day from the budget. It's said that the rear figure is allocated the target cost of providing care for orphans and children without parental care. This includes treatment and recovery. Another problem with vocational education is the attention to a specific group of students, such as children with disabilities. They should not be distracted, for they want to gain their first profession, to believe in the need for society. It's not a secret that professional and technical institutions are living today. Inadequate funding, about a third of the need for utilities, results in water, heat, and light being cut off from the facilities. So there's no idea of repairing the premises or strengthening the material and technical base. Clearly, the State budget is not rubber. However, a logical and justifiable redistribution of existing expenses can be regulated. For example, there are many professional and technical institutions in the Plains region that provide training, retraining and retraining for the unemployed. So why not include the funds of the employment center in the financing of these institutions? I'm sure that would have made a sense of the tension. One way to solve the problems of vocational education is also to restore the lost interaction of educational institutions with enterprises, labor contracting organizations. On many occasions in the district, I spoke to heads of both state and private businesses. They all look forward to such a step from the State. They're willing to direct some of their revenue today if these costs are transferred to gross costs. So we need to develop an appropriate legal mechanism, and I'm sure the national MPs will approve of it. At the same time, we need to consider the concept of creating a single body to care for the preparation of modern workers. He is to become a kind of dispatching center for the preparation of the state’s labour force, clearly managing the situation — how many and where workers need to be prepared. In time, for example, the need for quality training for agricultural workers. Their absence is one of the barriers to rural reform. Modern production requires deep, high-quality knowledge not only at the level of engineering workers, but also at the workplace. Once you understand this, once you've reinstated the trade, the economy of the state will find an additional labor reserve, which is now being calculated into half a million students in vocational and technical institutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us consult. We've got 25 people on board. Eight are from factions. We can go this way, from the faction that everyone will speak. Because we have until 12 o’clock to complete our consideration of this question. Is there no objection? We're coming from factions. According to the factions, where the factions are marked. I've already announced Carmazin. Please. And then the factions left.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u52	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable national MPs, distinguished members of the government, unnumbered, respected people of Ukraine! The question that's being considered today is the situation and the prospects, the development, you don't even want to talk about vocational and technical education. It's just a matter of survival, a matter of national security for Ukraine. I've had to work in a vocational school, in this system, and I'm in pain to see what's going on today. In short, if we call our day order about the situation, it can be called pitiful, and about the prospects, those that are here today can be called misty. That's what I'm talking about for the government. Because from this rostrum, the highest rostrum in the state, when the minister admits that more than a hundred were shut down today, vocational and technical education from energy security is a disaster. It is the Prime Minister and the President who have now to address the people, not to go and address the people in some mythical way. We were handed out a sign-up sheet, the materials signed by Yanukovič, Prime Minister. Here's an interesting table, who hasn't analyzed it, please look at it on page 11. Material technology, and here's the term for the operation of equipment in the factory world, metal-processing presses at the age of ten or more years -- 93 percent, wood-processing -- 90 percent, electric welding -- 85, sewing machines -- 87, mining equipment -- 97. And we want the miner not to die every day in this condition?Oh, my God! Look, look, look, look, look, look, look, look, look, look, look, look, look, look, look, look, look, look. That's the worst problem there is. Another problem. One third of the people, young people of 220,000, are in places where they're deprived of their will, and they're studying for themselves. Where, then, are the maritime trades at Odessa today? Closed. That we will not continue to develop? We don't want to think about what the state will be? Let's set up, enforce the law on vocational education. Here's the law before me, I've looked into it, but none of it's coming true. It is simply not exercised by executive authority. You don't have to make anything up, do the law. And in these regulations that we're currently writing, what we're going to do, what we're going to do to the government, excuse me, we just have to write one thing: ensure the implementation of the Vocational and Technical Education Act -- nothing more, period. You can't? Get out of here, from the government, Mr. Yanukovich, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Other people who will be able to do so will be required to come there. So today is not a problem of overexpenditure. We're in higher education, we need to focus everything on vocational engineering, computerization, that's all. Mr. Cremen, do you know what you're doing in Kiev? I think they're going to talk and tell, but you're giving away dormitories, you're giving away rooms, you're giving it away in other cities, it's happened in Odessa, it's happening in Lviv, it's happening in other cities. See what people in Ukraine write. We're blowing up the trades and jobs for what? I conclude, dear friends, although the problem is frightening, painful, and dangerous to national security. And I'm addressing the Prime Minister. Personally, you must participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u53	Puzakov Volodymyr Tikhovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u54	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The system of vocational education today should assume the role that has been lost in Ukraine in recent years. We need to raise the authority of a worker, a labor profession, even though it's impossible to do this today, because unfortunately, there are no giant factories where a student can go into manufacturing practice. Today, vocational training should be appropriate to the needs of the labour market. In order to meet the needs of the labour market, it is necessary to increase the number of professions to train professionals for employment services, which unfortunately is not done. In order to improve the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care, it is also necessary to provide primary training at the expense of the budget, according to government procurement. But the lack of funding to pay off the debt for coal utilities to heat up school boilers has led to the shutting down of schools from energy sources, or the halting of the school process. Yes, as of March 1, the teaching process in Malovskovsky’s PTU was stopped. The holiday of the Bobrinecki disciples has been transferred and extended. There is no fire in the cities of New Ukraine and Alexandria. The problem in the vocational education system in the Kirovograd region remains the issue of the rehabilitation of students, especially orphans and half orphans, who are not getting well because of the lack of public funding. The issue of social life and the nutrition of the students of the schools in the area is also in a crisis situation. The lack of adequate funds to feed the students has caused the dining room to be closed in most vocational schools in the area. And the student’s three - fold diet was left in memory. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that improving the training of younger experts requires legislative intervention. This is due to the fact that after the completion of the first course, students tend to be 18 years old and they're being called into the Armed Forces of Ukraine, which interrupts schooling for a year and a half. There are many times when after serving in the army a former student does not continue in school, the question arises: Is there a need to stop teaching? Of course not, for there is no army in Ukraine as such after the presidential reforms, and today the authorities are in complete disintegration not only of the countries but also of the armies. The problems of the district's vocational education are not fully explained in my brief presentation, because the district administration in Capchenka's person is afraid to talk about them out loud when he meets him. And it would be much smaller today if the state needed high-quality personnel, if these problems of the district administration of the trade unions were not afraid to take on people, were not afraid to fight for their removal, and whether they were under red flags or yellow-blue, because we are all called together to do everything for the good of man, for the good of our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u55	Please, Shiko Yuri Volodymyrovich, next Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u56	Yuri Shirko, faction of our Ukraine, city of Raven. Dear Hennaday Andriyovich! Deputies! Officials! You're invited! For several years now, the funding of the education system, the main task of which is to train specialists capable of bringing Ukraine out of the economic and political crisis. During this period, many new types of educational institutions have been created. We have more than 40 higher education institutions in the Plains alone, which prepare both lawyers and economists and managers, but only one of them prepares engineers. Why are nonstate educational institutions not equipped to train skilled workers, technicians, engineers? The answer is simple: They require labs, workshops, machines, machinery, computer classes, and software. But can Ukraine be driven out of economic crisis by just lawyers, economists, managers? After all, skilled engineers, technicians, and workers are needed to develop production. This is the potential that the state has to pay particular attention to, because also the great statesman Taras Bulba Borovets, the first commander of the Ukrainian rebel army, 95th anniversary of the birth of which was widely celebrated by Equality, on 9th March, had a technical education and occupied by the Poles of Ukraine, organized technical education itself. I would stress that the system of vocational and technical education plays a major social role. Nearly 80 percent of school students are children from low-income and disadvantaged families. The reform of education involves the introduction of technology lessons in the older classes, that is, schools will be given the right to provide vocational training for students. This is the way education has gone. Money was lost without the slightest benefit for the state. Should We Make Mistakes? It's better to stop the process of destroying vocational and technical education institutions, because out of a thousand and a half schools, there's a little more than 900. A profession that works not only under the laws of pedagogical science but also under the laws of manufacturing requires increased attention to scientific and methodical security. At present, there is no state-wide approach to programming and curricula. There are no government standards for specific professions, and there are almost half of the qualifications for the training of workers. As a result, there are different forms of ownership in the trade unions of the same profession. In recent years, no major scientific and methodological work has been produced on the organization of vocational training for students. The current science and technology works are based on a system of general secondary education that is different from a system of vocational education. Special attention is required to improve the qualifications of teachers, specialties, and manufacturers. In order to improve the development of vocational and technical education, I consider it appropriate. First. Anticipate tax evasion for the production of the factory. The other one. Stop transferring premises and equipping schools to other organizations. Third. Postponing students from the recruitment to the Ukrainian Armed Forces until they receive their primary vocational education. Four. Predicting quotas for admission to technical units for the state form of training of better PTU graduates in the direction of gays. Fifth. To anticipate the possibility of improving the skills of pedagogical staff at the district level, the funds provided for the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for retraining specialists, to send a percentage to the vocational and technical education system. And I'd like to remind you something else that, unfortunately, I don't see any transport and agriculture or energy ministers in the hall. But it's these ministries that have a large share of the factories. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u57	The word is given to Masenko Alexandro Mikolaiovich, next to Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, I have stressed this once before, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is no purpose in achieving this goal in today's government, as in previous ones. Whoever wants or doesn't accept my words, I'm going to give a fact like that. If there was a revolution in the 17th year, Bolsheviks had to some extent destroyed the old system, so they made sure that something new was being built! Collectively conducted, support for the village went to 25 thousand. The best sons of the party went to the village, did not sit in Kiev or Moscow, and did not expect it to be. The excitement was, the famine, the cold, but those who gained the job had the best support, and they were in a better position than the rest of the country's citizens. What do we see now? And now it's all abandoned. Whoever wants to survive. Let me give you just one example. There is such a city of Lubna in the Poltava region. Training Center number 12. Well, look, honourable deputies, last year's first quarter: 3,000 to be burned. That's right. In 2003 it was 2,600. For water and water, 230 bucks. This year, the first quarter is 100 dollars. The electricity of 2,000 dollars last year, 1400 last year. There's garbage and stuff, 40 bucks, 30 bucks this year. And this is taking into account that from year to year, debt is accumulated. And the debt is for the heating -- 7,321 bracelets, water and water -- 2,311 bracelets, electricity -- 1,470 bracelets, and for the garbage -- 224 bracelets. All organizations and utilities have already warned the school that since March 15, the school will be shut down from all sources of heat and water. So let's think about what we're pushing those people who are doing vocational and technical education. And we push them to engage in some unrighteous activity so that they may somehow be twisted, somewhere looking for money that may or may not be in a righteous way. So, no Dmitry Volodymyrovich, gone, it's very sad, just like a lot of people here who make decisions from most, look in the hall, they're gone. And it's already becoming a system for us. So I'd like to pay attention to what we have, and for everything we can find, but only what the state needs, what it needs, what it needs, what it needs, we'll never find the funds. So if the new government really wants to do vocational and technical education, I think without delay tomorrow, for the day after tomorrow, and today we need to go back to our faces and do everything we need to do to have a higher level of vocational and technical education.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u59	Pavlovsky Mikhailo Anatonovich, next to Anatoly Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u60	Pavlovsky, faction of Timoshenko, Hmelnický. Honorable members of the government, guests, national deputies! I want to draw attention to an unusual first phrase. Why does our country today feel bad about being a scientist and an engineer, not needed? Because in our country, it's a disgrace to vocational schools. If there is no skilled workforce, there is no production, there is no competitiveness of the state. And now I want to say, who's to blame? It's the fault and the politics of the Mineconomy. Those liberals, led by Horoshkovsky, who instead of protectionist politics, that is, support for their production, and accordingly PTU, are running a liberalization policy and say, "We'll bring everything to you." There will be no rich nation on foreign goods. I'm talking to the young. Young people will have no prospect if the government does not do its own production in Ukraine. It's a science bridge. You know what an interesting paradox this is. By the end of the 19th century, Europe’s highest priority was work, production. Today, there is the phenomenon of consumption. And you're bringing this consumption phenomenon right over here. But to eat, you have to produce. And to produce, we stopped everything. So we're all taking someone else's. And that's why it's the vocational and technical schools that are making skilled workers who are supposed to work in manufacturing, not in the service sector. Because the service area is the service of foreign firms and goods. Production really advocates the interests of the state, national interests, and they are not. And so this policy in the WTO, where in other people's conditions today, Horoshkovsky's going to go there, it's going to lead to everything that's going to disappear in Ukraine, then no one needs to. And in order to solve these problems, you don't say anything, I'm going to write down here as a government and a Mineconomy task force tasked with drafting an appropriate law on the quality of the workforce in Ukraine. Because the quality of the labor force is the quality of economic growth, it's really the movement of Ukraine in a circle of developed states. Nothing can be done without it. What's the quality of labor force? This is a profession, education, and health. It starts with the same PTU. The second question should be linked, by the way, to the first. Therefore, appropriate attention should be given. See what we've come up with? That the top priority in the state of education is vocational and technical schools. I think you understand me very well, Dmitri Volodymyrovich, your erudition allows, so you need to direct your influence to Horoshkovsky so he can finally understand what the state needs. And finally, I want to say that I have in my hands the appeal of the staff, the teachers of the higher vocational and technical school number 3 and others, we're going to solve all your problems with appropriate requests to the government, and today we need the law that is going to save the state, and this rescue has to start with vocational and technical schools. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u61	The word is given to Anatoly Mikolayovich Moroz, followed by Proscuratov. Please follow the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u62	Anatoly Moroz, 83rd constituency, Zaporez area, Communist faction. Dear friends, even an unarmed eye, we see that the situation that has taken place today in the system of vocational and technical education in the country is a crisis. This is illustrated in a eloquent way even by a draft Supreme Council decree issued by the Committee, which states: "The Constitution of Ukraine, Ukrainian education laws, vocational and technical education, Presidential decrees and other legal instruments in the area of fiscal and economic security are not being implemented. The Cabinet of Ministers does not have a clear concept of providing people's agriculture with skilled workforces." What are we talking about in this room? In fact, as my colleagues have said, let’s talk, write down, make a decision, and break up. On the other hand, the situation remains as it was. This is what the delegates of the Third Conference, the All-U.S. Association of Workers of Trade and Technology, have said: "No electricity, no utilities, no food for children, no more than 61 million dollars for these purposes, no debt for the year 2001 has remained over 40 million dollars, no electricity for dozens of schools, no more than 400 schools have been shut down, no more than 70 nominates are working, no more than the law of article 57 of the Law on Education is extremely low wages for engineering and pedagogical workers, it is barely more than half the minimum wage and minimum wage. The students ’ scholarship remains meager. For food, 25 to 3 copies per day is allocated. To keep one orphan, 3 bracelets, 50 copies. The core funds worked 70 percent of their resources. Over 70 percent of school equipment is out of date, and about 60 percent of students learn from textbooks that do not meet the applicable standards. Not all of the reasons given have led to a decrease in the proportion of skilled workers who are withdrawing Ukraine from economically competitive states. According to the Ukrainian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, there are only 21 percent of highly skilled workers in the country today. At the same time, in the United States, 43, in Germany, 56. All of this has become possible, perhaps because we, as deputies, consider certain sectoral laws, forget the old truth: Frames decide everything. This is confirmed by the parliamentary hearing on the progress of reforms and measures to improve the situation in the countryside. Not in the recommendations of these hearings, nor in the Supreme Council’s decree, are there practically no words on personnel policy at the APC. Don't believe it. Check it out. Therefore, the All-Ukrainian Association of Workers of the PTO has long been asking for immediate consideration and resolution of the situation in the PTO system, as well as for wage increases for engineering and pedagogical workers no less than two times, the repayment of debts from municipal services, the organization of full feeding of children, especially orphans, in the 2003 budget, to find funding for the article “Capital repair of facilities that need immediate repair”. The State is also required to change its management of trade and technology. The involvement of funds in the development of basic vocational education must be seen as a contribution to the future, in which both the state and society are interested. Today, in Zaporozhye district, out of 42 factories, 7 and 35 have been shut down. Where are we going? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u63	The word is given to Proskurat Tamara Sergiyovni. The next Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u64	Tamara Proskuratov, faction of SDPU. Honorable Presidency, distinguished guests of the government, national deputies! At the current stage of the socio-economic transformations in Ukraine, the SDPF considers it extremely important to provide personnel for the economy, taking into account the real needs of the work and the quality requirements of the production potential. The system of vocational and technical education, which is organically related to social production and provides for the reproduction of the labour resources of the State, is of particular importance in carrying out this task. It's not about restoring CTU, it's about providing a new quality that matched the level of scientific and technological progress. The first step was the second assembly of scholars and the adoption of national doctrines. The implementation of the doctrine requires improvements in legislation and state support. When I was preparing for Government Day on this issue, I was able to go to many vocational and technical institutions. The problems are almost the same. Therefore, as a result, we propose to increase expenditure from the state energy budget, to maintain, to develop a material and technical base, to provide manuals, to increase funding, and to involve foreign investment in accordance with international agreements. There are opportunities in PTU, as it were, to make money. I've seen these beautiful products, including the embroidery of the 20th Cercas High School of Vocational and Technical Technology, do not yield quality to any samples. But today's tax law does not allow this to be created. So we suggest that we create tax conditions for the educational and manufacturing activities of institutions of this type. There are proposals for a PTU teaching facility, and it also sounded from this room, to create separate centres for the management of vocational and technical institutions. So there is a proposal to study the relevance of setting up separate centres for vocational and technical education not only in terms of labour market learning but also in terms of socio-economic opportunities in the region. Moreover, the reform of education for a 20-year period of education provides for a professional training that can be done through the collaboration of a professional educational institution with a PTU and a university. The quality of the general education of such students, the implementation of national standards, cannot be overlooked. Better moral training is needed. Because it's no secret to anyone that all educational institutions have a large number of children from social families, orphans, half orphans, so it requires changes and human resources for educational institutions, such as skilled social educators, psychologists, and the creation and financing of programs that are appropriate socio-cultural programs. It requires improvement and recovery of orphans during the summer period. In recent years, funds for these purposes have not been fully allocated. What's important is that this is also what Mr. Minister talked about, speaking about the social adaptation of children with disabilities and the establishment of vocational and technical institutions in different areas of rehabilitation centres for young people who need different types of correction. I'm done. Therefore, legislation should provide for the state custody of children with disabilities who would be trained in special groups of vocational and technical schools. So what we think of as the main task of public education policy is the exit of vocational and technical education to the market of world education programs, services, and the skills we have; the deepening of international cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u65	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u66	increasing the participation of teaching institutions in international projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u67	Matvienko Sergey Anatolyevich, please. Follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u68	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! To date, the production system is in a dire, if not catastrophic state, which has been talked about today. The number of educational establishments has declined steadily year after year and the level of training of workers has decreased. Due to the principle of residual financing for vocational training, there is a severe shortage of skilled masters who drop out of school and go to work in private enterprises because of low wages, often not in the profession. In view of the fact that money is spent not so much on education but on the content of schools, schools are poorly provided with educational and technical literature, visual aids, and technical training. Those who exist have long aged, both morally and physically. The material and technology base, the technical parks of CTU, are heavily worn out. This and many other calamities can be said to be endless. The reasons for this practical state of CTU are several. One of the main things is that the reform of the training system has never taken place. In fact, only attempts have been made to upgrade the schools in some way. But they did not produce real results. There is in fact no relationship between schools and job exchanges. The destruction of the institution of basic enterprises has led to the withdrawal of schools from production, the sharp deterioration of material and human resources. There was no mechanism for interaction between enterprises of different forms of ownership and schools. As a result, professional training for commercial entities is being provided through already scarce budgetary funding. The opening of new paid professions has generally led to the fact that computer operators, accountants have been released so much that many students, without being able to stand up for their jobs, are completing an army of unemployed or, at best, sellers in markets, kiosks and transitions. Their training was spent on both time and resources. The only way out of the situation could be through a fundamental reform of the system. It is precisely from the reform of the system of training of workers that the economic transformation of Margaret Thetcher began in England. The system is extremely fast in Italy, France and Japan. And first of all, here we have to answer, what is PTU, and what do we want from PTU? This is a system that employs under the age of 18-20 citizens who have not been able to enter higher education institutions or who have not found work, or is it a system of training? That is, I think, the most important question that we must answer today and that will give us an answer. I do, and many believe that this system should be as close as possible to training directly on the ground. This is the basic principle of the system. It should be confronted with the enterprise training system. And only then will it be able to earn, as was done in Mariupola, on Mount PTU 99, which has already produced concrete results, and today this system works. Training should be changed. When the cell tower comes to the plant, I'm sorry, he saw the station in the picture. That's not good either, so to speak. Well, that's the last one. It's literally two words. I want to talk about the funding system. Well, my dears, what are we doing? We're practically giving money to Gor-PTU from one corner of the pocket, and then we're giving it three times as much money as we're spending and raising, so to speak, we're putting out the heroic efforts of the problems that are facing us today. I believe, in conclusion, that a package of laws that have been drafted by the Committee must be adopted primarily to support the economic system of PTS and then to begin its reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u69	The word is given to the president of the holding company Kyivmishkbud Polachenko Volodymyr Avrumovich. Please. From the faction, let's consult.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u70	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs, members of the government, participants in the hearing. I'm grateful for the word, because I'm probably speaking both from the second floor, from the builders and from the manufacturers, and I probably have the right to talk about the real state of affairs, and mostly from those organizations that have, to some extent, overcome the crisis and are oriented towards the introduction of new technologies. In terms of Kyivmishkbud, there have been significant changes in technical policy over the past few years. The work of the builder becomes more intense and intellectually subtle. We need completely new professionals with a new level of knowledge and attitude to work, with fundamentally different psychological training and consciousness. The current level of vocational training of students for these tasks is not enough. Something needs to be done from our point of view to address these issues. First. It's creating a new human and material base for vocational and technical education. It's no accident that the personnel issue is in the foreground. I want to support Stanislav Mikolaiovich in the fact that, in fact, we have a master who gets four times as much as a master at PTU, and this is a mentor to young people, a pattern of professional attitude towards the case. And can a modern master be required to perform his duties conscientiously when his salary, as I called it, is 180 or 200 dollars? The situation needs to be rectified. Today, there are skilled specialists who have been trained, including from overseas technology firms. Their experience and knowledge are essential to professional and technical schools. And they're set up to hold a competition and the most prepared to offer a masters degree in CTU. And we're planning to pay that salary he gets on production. But it's an amateur initiative, and it's a proper level of expertise, and their decent pay is a state matter. Second, it's to strengthen the material base of trade and technology. Enlighteners also confirm that since 1991 there has been no funding for the development of a material foundation for vocational education. And here the MPs said that businesses sometimes find it unfavourable to do so, because taxes need to be stimulated by those who help PTU. So the way to create, from our point of view, a system of vocational and technical education is to create a special staff training fund that has to solve not only financial but also social issues. Enterprises, depending on their numbers, have to account for some of the funds, and we're willing to do that. And the cost of learning and strengthening the material base will be accounted for by the enterprise in the fund. Businesses will therefore be economically advantageous to send staff to study and prepare for a change in production. Not much time, but the third, last thing you need to pay attention to as law-makers. That's what we've talked about. Think about the numbers. In the past two years, Kyivmishkbud has accepted more than 2.5 thousand young professionals. For the current year, there are 1,420 young workers. As a rule, 70 percent of them are called to the ranks of the army as soon as they arrive, and more than half of them do not return to production. The reason is that a young person has not experienced the taste of work, has lost such imperfect and inadequate work skills during military service, and is looking for a new destiny after being released to the reserve. So we suggest that graduates of vocational and technical schools be given the right to two years' leave of military service if they are employed. And the last. I want to say that when I was a director, I was 28 years old, the most important person in Kiev was to me as director. The head of the Department of Vocational Education, and the 17 people who are dealing with the issue of our perspective today, are really not that many. So I want to say what we need to do about this is, really, revolutionary moves, because it's our hope, and we feel it on ourselves. Human aging is coming, and the young replenishment is not prepared at all for work under new conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues. A very important, up-to-date issue is now being addressed. And the committee is also proposing to give a word to the factions. Is there any objection? Please, Frost Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u72	Frost, faction of the Socialist Party. After my neighbor Andrew Kurchenk’s war, they were taken to the F.O.S., then they were organized kits. Mother was crying out, being held for war. She had three other children, a widow had no way out. And the impression was confirmed by the fact that a month later he drove into a black shoe, in fact, the whole thing. [[There was no one in the village who walked in the wilderness]] And it's like this feeling of despair that's been going on for a long time. About 12 years later, Andrew stayed in my dormitory. At the time, in Kiev, hotels were still bad. He worked in Donetskina, worked as a repairman at a machine factory, got married, finished his technicum, had an apartment, and so forth. I was impressed by the fact that he went to the opera theater one day, and then he was talking about, he was doing the performance, the game, the actors, and so on. And I was ashamed that I, a student of the academy, didn't know what this representative of the working class knew. This was the State’s concern about the preparation of labour reserves. What about today, who needs a high school graduate? Well, Mariupola Boyko needs, well, Kiev needs Polachenko. What's next? The state needs, the government needs, which since 1994 has been making every effort to transfer the funding of CTU from the State to the local budget in order to put a cross in this field of preparation? So let's keep at least one function -- the social function of trade and technology. After all, half a million children that no one seems to need are now at the most difficult time of human existence to cover up any kind of national concern. Because in school, there's a principal's daughter, the son of the mayor of the city, who's getting some more attention. And to these children of half a million, one hundred thousand, one in five orphans or a single - parent family, no one will give them any attention. So today, I'm repeating, save this system, this structure, and we're changing power, and then we're going to go back to the normal, normal attitude of the state towards this child. But we need to solve systemic issues from the point of view of branch management, from the point of view of analysis of the situation in the field, the state of life, the profession, and so forth. In terms of forecasting labour personnel, financial, material and technical, including computerization of vocational schools. Including allowing them to make their own profits, because we have the same thing as building them. I've been to Truscave, Drogobychi can't even afford to make money because they're getting paid. And change the position of the frames. Today they're coming, the deputy wants to meet, I won't call them names, it was in different areas. He begins to look at the area's leadership from which it's a faction, most of it or from the opposition. But people who are good, don't be shy, just those who are in opposition today have made sure that you're still working. So work together, there'll be order, there'll be a bill of law being implemented, and we'll adopt that bill of amendment to many laws, fifteen laws that the committee has prepared. And we're going to fight for a change of power, and the system of vocational education is going to work. There will be no disgrace that we see today regarding the pay of a teacher or a master or the provision of a student. If he receives 50 copies a day for food, he will likely have such an attitude toward that authority, not the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u73	Vladimir Vasilovich Rybak, region of Ukraine. The next one is Demyochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u74	Ukraine faction, Rybak. Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear colleagues! Despite the fact that the overall state of vocational and technical education in the country is characterized by the level of funding, this system has been largely preserved, it has been modernized, there are new types of educational institutions that focus on training young people in market economy conditions. But the results of the research, the analysis at the regional level, indicate that the state of affairs in the system of vocational education, the rate of transformation is far from that of society. And all the speakers spoke for it. Some reasoning. First. Our young people are being taught by a lot of highly professional teachers and manufacturing skills, but they're getting smaller and smaller, and they're moving to other structures. In the schools, I even looked around the area, 15 to 20 percent of the vacancy. We have to solve the first question of wages and the problem gets worse, and the staff is getting older. The other one. Both the education ministers and the committee’s chairman spoke to me about budgetary funding, and obviously we should increase public funding. But consideration should also be given to empowering local governments to deal with these problems. The managers of all educational institutions point to the inadequacy of removing 50 percent of the cost of renting free premises. A local financial plan with appropriate expenditure supervision is needed, not fiscal control over the collection of funds. In the country, aid from manufacturing structures almost completely ceased, and the units today were called basic enterprises. Expanding the training of workers in manufacturing. We have experience in this regard, and such examples have been cited today. And it's a cluster of questions in the concept of vocational education. The state must maintain standards for such education, taking into account the level of human resources and the technical and educational resources. It's necessary, of course, to have both orphans and disabled people, and so on, and on the basis of that, we need to have a state-wide social rehabilitation scheme for young people with low secondary education. Implementation of low-skilled knowledge programs to raise the skills base of technical and work professions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u75	Thank you. Vladimir Demyohin, People's Rule faction, next to Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u76	Respectable leaders of the Supreme Council, distinguished leaders of the Government, people's deputies! Vladimir Demyohin, 184th District, Hersonian Region, People's Authority Group. It is now necessary to note that vocational education exists in isolation from the social order and the needs of business and production structures. The state of the business sector, the pace and the extent of change do not meet the needs of society and the State. However, the domestic system of quantifiable production can be described as sufficiently developed. The typical problems of the vocational training system are: the weakening and disappearance of the relationship between the labour system and the industry's economics management, with vocational training institutions and enterprises, the lack of prognosis at the state and industry levels, which in turn complicates the definition of criteria for the training of professionals of different professional backgrounds. Dissatisfaction with the organization of vocational training facilities in the system of correctional institutions. More detailed problems could be identified: inadequate resources and financial support. For example, in the Herson area, there were only 70 per cent of vocational training institutions funded last year; the lack of professional competence of managers and teaching staff from the increased demands, the quality of training and the necessary level for the introduction of innovative learning technologies. We talk about innovation all the time, and the level of teachers we have today is lagging behind to give young people such training; the lack of compliance with an outdated, morally and physically worn-out logistics base; and the lack of any means of working in vocational training institutions. In order to support vocational and technical education in Ukraine, our parliamentary group offers the following solutions. This is not a solution, but we believe that our proposals will help improve the system of production. First. Establish at the legislative level a mechanism for taxation of training and production activities by amending the Value Added Tax Act. We believe that the exemption from the value added tax of the equipment supplied, the tool, will allow for the updating of the training and material base. That's what the Bronnnikov MP was talking about. Introduce state-owned enterprises into the credit system, especially the agricultural sector. To amend the Earth Code accordingly to exclude the lands on which the agricultural sector is currently operating, the privatization processes should be excluded. Ensure that the principle of distance learning, which implies the active position of the student, is introduced into the training process. It is possible to implement this principle by computerizing vocational institutions, connecting them to the Internet and relevant databases, training databases that require further development. These proposals have been prepared and sent by our parliamentary group to include the Government in the programme. They will, in our view, allow for a more concrete implementation of the innovative campaign in the system of vocational education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u77	Thank you. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, Communist Party of Ukraine Next Bauer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u78	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the panellists today, the representatives of the labour system, I have every reason to say that the specific examples given in the statements of my comrades in the faction - Puzaków, Masenka, Anatolia Moroza - show that we Communists really know the situation in this area and today state that, without radical changes and approaches by the State, there are no prospects for any change in this system. What would I like to draw the attention of the Government and the participants in today's discussion? What are some issues that need to be addressed today? First, we must understand that the issue of the state of the labour system is an integrated issue; it concerns, first and foremost, the development of productive forces in Ukraine, the level of their preparation; it must today be linked to the issues of new technologies, the development of new jobs, the strategy for supporting and developing industries or specific enterprises that constitute a development strategy for Ukraine. We must also understand today that 90 per cent of the property belongs to private capital and, of course, the root question is that either the State is pursuing a policy of developing productive forces and training highly skilled workers, or the private is now benefiting only from what the system has been set up, as the speaker from this rostrum said. We must therefore take into account the following points. There's a huge declaration of the working class, it's dropped today on the asphalt, and it's trading, it's spreading or rusty nails, as we see here in the markets of the city of Kiev. We must also bear in mind that there is a tendency to demobilize young people, that they are now deprived of the right to higher education and that the poor sector of our society is given at least the education offered by the system of vocational education. Thus, today in the State, we argue, there is no real policy for the development of productive forces and, of course, a targeted programme for the training of the working class. We must understand, and everyone who has done little in the State with real politics knows that the bra is 10-15 years of training. And all today's talk is to hope that if you see, the laws are necessary, that's utopia. I say to you, the representatives of the trade, that since 1994, the Communist faction has done its utmost to have all the laws passed. Are they in force today? No, they do not work because there is no policy in the State, including on financing, on employment, on many other issues. In this case, the question is not rhetorical. Without a strong working class, without trained engineers, labourers and villages, is it possible to develop Ukraine? We answer immediately: no. But what is most paradoxical is that today we are trying to invest in or support for the development of trade and, on the other hand, we are preparing working hands and working classes for foreign States. Because in the country today, it is rare that a young person remains in the countryside. Today, as in the city, a young person leaves because the State has no sense of responsibility to a person, a Ukrainian citizen, and more so to young people. Without funding for education, without funding for a system of vocational education, the State declares that they are not interested in the problem of a particular person, and they do not think about the future of our youth. I would like again to address the representatives of the Government here today. Until in the end, there will be no comprehensive approach to the development of the State, in this case, we will have no results, because from 1943 to 1945 -- only Kiev has been liberated -- and we have created a production system, and 14 schools have earned. During these years, 199 schools have already been closed. And this once again shows that the Government and the President have removed themselves and removed themselves from the people. I propose today in the complex, and I turn to intelligence: today it must be understood that a State that does not think about intelligence is a young person, a State, in the face of the current representatives of power, which destroys the future of the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u79	Mikhailo Josephovich Bauer. Next Kafarsky. I'm asking you to follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u80	Reverend Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished colleagues, members of the government! The lifelong struggle for survival has proved its necessity, structural relevance, and efficiency. The reports carefully examine the successes, shortcomings, and problems of professional education today. Why did such a difficult situation arise? The main reason, in my view, is self - removal, I emphasize, the self - removal of a number of central executive authorities from the function of managing the sector. Vasil Grigorovitch gave a rather tedious answer, and I think it would be more critical to say it on this very point. We need to resuscitate the system immediately. How? First, change the stereotyping of residual sector financing. Perhaps it is time to implement multichannel funding for the sector. Why don't we get regional funding for secondary education and social protection for children? Or identify a list of educational institutions that ensure the economic priorities of the state and finance them from the State budget and transfer the rest to the operational management of the regions. [[We're going to the O.R.!]] Secondly, liberalize tax legislation on the education system. Is it possible that parental support that has already been taxed will again be subject to taxation? Or on what basis are 50 percent of the rental costs to the State budget? At the same time, the State budget provides funding for only wages and mandatory deductions. The third is the need to change the public's attitude towards trade and trade schools. This can be achieved in several ways. The first is the establishment of higher education facilities that will allow talented students to enter third grade, but there is a threat that higher education institutions will use non-destination facilities. So the second, more receptive way is to develop and implement cross-cutting training programs. This is to be done intensively by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. And in closing, I'm addressing Vasil Grigorovovich, which is to be exacted, I'm not afraid of that word, to force everyone to love the system of vocational education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u81	Vladimir Kafarsky, next Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, in fact today’s discussion, we see that there are two problems that need to be resolved. First. It's to re-establish a system of vocational education management and eventually implement the Vocational Education Act in our country. The second question. It's a reform of the education system. I'll start with the first one. We speak today and are critical to the Ministry of Education, but there is essentially no administration for today. It's probably necessary to re-establish a serious full administration and introduce a deputy minister of education on vocational and technical education, because otherwise it's impossible to manage these issues. On the other hand, can the Ministry of Education today influence the Ministry's sector and require serious activity in the development of vocational and technical schools? We can see that neither can we. So we need to immediately review the quality, quantity, and so forth of the Interministerial Council at the Cabinet of Ministers. I don't know who's there today, but I'm sure these people don't have a hand in the vocational education system. And the third. It is likely necessary to create a working group from various committees of industry, finance, and so on, which would immediately begin to develop new legislation on education. Because we have such an interesting practice. When we ask the question on Government Day, any ministry or government collects and analyzes everything that is done in this field, whether by them or by them, does not matter, reports to us, and we criticize them, make a decision, and part. We can't keep doing this. Thus, for today’s day, the Supreme Council should take on a certain responsibility. First of all, there must be a review of the Vocational Education Act, the issue of the status of the licensees, and perhaps a legislative system should be developed that would allow training centres to work as the basis for today's development of vocational education. Take the experience of France in this regard. Look at the activities of colleges. Second thing. We're talking about the first job. But there must be a law to protect working youths. You need to review the law on the promotion of vocational education for young people. After all, in France, those who study in vocational schools pay their wages in production. And I think we should look at the basic enterprise law. That's even an old name. There can be no basic business today. Today we need to look at legislation that would bring about a single manufacturing system and a school, and private enterprises, and state-owned enterprises. Well, please tell me, could it be that private metallurgical enterprises that have colossal income, without funding, finance schools? And at the same time, agricultural schools where the economy is expensive. We have the same funding from the state as both. The second thing is very simple. Why is this summer vacation in agricultural schools? They're supposed to be working in the summer. There are details that we don't even think about sometimes. And to the end. The economic freedom of our schools, the withdrawal of all taxes. I'll give you an example. The Ivano-Frankian school pushed the Turkish, the Turkish industry, out of the market, to form for the students. They've paid for this form up to 27 bucks. So the tusks cost $7.50 at the end of the school. These are two bottles of mineral water, and they are taxed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u83	Please, Vladimir Bondarenko. Next one's the rest. Follow the rules! All of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u84	Vladimir Bondarenko, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues! Dear guests! Today, this is a matter of great importance to this room, because it is obvious that each of us has something to do with a system that is rightfully the first universities of life for many who will then go to the institutes and things like that. So the person who attended this school obviously has a heartache from today’s state of vocational education, from the processes that go there. And the process is completely negative. I would like to say that here we are not working, and the relevant committee of the Supreme Council should pay attention to the extremely weak legislative provision of the process of transformation of vocational education in the context of transformation of productive relations in society and property relations in general. It's about that. What before, when businesses were interested in frame-making, they were really bossing over schools, they were really the main ones. Today, there are no such enterprises, and schools remain as if they were homeless. We agree with that. We also agree that funding cannot continue at the level that only wage payments and 20 percent of food are financed today. What about providing a training process when a driver is unable to prepare when there is no petrol, there is no car. For this, the students carry their money, give up theirs. I mean, it's a tuition fee at a vocational school. Soon they'll be carrying the solution and the salami and all that. You can't let that happen, it's not normal today. We believe that the information provision for the professional and technical education process in Ukraine is zero. See what our channels are busy with, especially the so - called state channels. They curse the savage opposition that is taking place during the storm of the nation. That was two channels. And I've never seen a broadcast about any good training or training at that school. So we have very negative processes. But the main thing, in my opinion, is that the Ministry of Education of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, did not ensure that what happened was preserved. I'm not saying that we don't have the ability to create anything today, or to reproduce it, but we have to save at least what happened. What are the processes going on here? Look, in Kiev. 15 schools were completely destroyed, 8 so - called reorganizations. It's going to take the most beautiful pieces of the factory, it's the manufacturing workshops, it's going to pass them on to the commercial structures under the manufacturers of their areas, as well as the dormitories. And there are no decisions on the head at all. Excuse me, the gym in my district number three, where there are two nine-story housing units, it's the only complex, with the only heating, the only communication, the order of the minister of education is passed on to another so-called state institution -- the former Kyiv Institute of National Agriculture, today it's an economic university, which most students acquire on a commercial basis, and that's why they're going to use a school to further increase the commercial set. And from the vocational and technical schools they took the dormitories, they forcibly evicted people, warning them that they wouldn't have the right to go to where they lived, including the school students, after 16 years. I'm talking to you. Vasil Grigorovitch, third. I've spoken to you twice in person. And I'm going to have to go to the Attorney General of Ukraine if you don't take action and return these dormitories to school. If KINH needs dormitories, let him rent school and pay rent and then there will be no problems at school. And you tore them off, handed them over, and you tore the whole complex apart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u85	The word is given to Igor Ostashu and we will finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, the national MPs, of course we all have the same problems, I have seven schools in the district: Stryu, Jewish, Hodor, Medenich -- and there is really no money to pay for electricity, gas, heat, water supply. Some schools are completely shut off from heat and gas. Expensive costs for material and technical supplies, roof repairs, teaching units, dormitories, no bed linen in the dormitory. I think that, for example, Medenias need to build a tent roof, for there is also a roof, because it flows from the first floor to the fifth floor of the house. In the Jewish community, we need to repair an active hall, a teaching corps, and so on and so forth. Since 1991, there has been a teaching corps of the Stryski, the teaching and manufacturing workshop of the Strysk PPU number 34, although there is an appropriate government decision. But unfortunately, by now, the cart is still there. Unfortunately, a very serious problem is primarily social. We understand very well what it means to not feed orphans and children from low-income families today. That means that we're creating a criminogenic situation, these people are going to go out on the street tomorrow. And I think today it's hard to understand a minister who says we have very low standards. So come on, you and the cards in hand, let's work to make sure there's normal standards for these students, especially orphans and low-income families. Another serious problem. We're only hearing for the first time today about a program or a possible program of computerization of vocational schools. I think we should have done this program a long time ago. And let us now, if possible, make adjustments to the budget and work to ensure that our schools are equipped with computer technology. Next. It's a material and technology base. Are we preparing professionals when, for example, in some of my vocational schools, the educational base, the saltotechnics, has not been updated since 1989, when there is no normal food laboratory in Hodor? What can be said about the quality of training professionals? And it's clear that we can't keep looking at what's going on in our schools right now, so we need to do everything we can to make the decision that the committee is proposing to avoid the actual social explosion that we can get with you today. And the last. In fact, we have to do everything we can to stop embezzling the material and technical base of the schools, because today it's very easy pieces, and unfortunately, schools don't really have any other way of renting them, and that's how to survive them. And it's already a matter of the Attorney General's Office, and it's a question of the relevant ministries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as we consider this very important problem, we have to admit that the situation in the field of vocational and technical education is disturbing. We need a new strategy for developing labour potential, modernizing both the education sector as a whole, and professionally and technically. Yeah, they're needed. But they should be built on a combination of trends in the development of the people's economy, industry, services, agriculture, tourism, and so on. The measures currently under way are not yet complex, systematic, and do not take into account the specificity and regularity of labour market formation, the restoration of labour resources. We often have the goal of reform to become a self - centered goal that has a reverse effect. It's the same thing. As the Supreme Council sometimes adopts laws that do not fit into the system that are torn out of the context of general life. We need to reconcile strategies and tactics, government plans, research centres, enterprises, public organizations, such as entrepreneurs' associations, agrarians, etc. Today, Ukraine, with its rather high labour, educational potential, remains competitively competitive in European and global space. We need to preserve this work of many generations of labor, vocational schools, educators and education systems in general, not to destroy it in the form of money, but to multiply it, to complement it with modern requirements. It is therefore worth supporting the proposals of the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee on Science and Education for the Preparation and Adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine. I agree that there is also a need to provide computerization of vocational and technical schools, to equip modern educational programs, to provide textbooks, to provide the necessary technology. I think so. I think we have an understanding of the problem today. And it probably took this conversation, despite the critical assessments of today's session, to make us realize again -- without a skilled worker, modern production is not possible. Preparation, restoration of employment potential will be implemented when we provide a more or less acceptable level of financing for the industry, and in this case we should talk no more about maintaining vocational and technical education, but about quality, sustainable development. Finally, the Committee on Science and Education is working on a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which we should accept as an appropriate document on the outcome of this important issue. Thank you all for your active participation. Please tell me, can we take a five-ten-minute break or shall we continue? How are government officials? Are we moving on? Let us turn to the second question. For information, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine invited the head of the State Committee on Family Affairs and Young Valentina Ivanovna Longzhenko to attend to the children’s rehabilitation organization in the summer of 2003. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Children’s health concerns and the search for effective ways to improve them are one of the priorities of government policy in Ukraine. This is primarily due to the situation of children. In our country, with more than 10 million children, 1.2 million children live in low-income families. These are usually large families, single - parent families. 154, 000 children live in functionally disabled families, and 69,000 are raised in residential institutions. More than 1 million children have the status of suffering from accidents in CHAES. We are deeply concerned about the increase in the number of diseases among children. Thus, the quality of the organization of healing and recreation that has been raised today for consideration by the Supreme Council is extremely relevant. These issues are under the constant control of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and are issued annually with appropriate Presidential orders, regulations and orders by the Cabinet of Ministers to regulate the preparation, conduct and financing of the health campaign. Second, this question is raised for consideration by the Supreme Council. After reviewing the findings of last year’s health campaign, it should be noted that there is a positive dynamic in the organization of recovery, recreation, and recreation. This includes an increase in the number of health facilities that functioned last year and an increase in the number of children who received health care in these facilities. In 2002, a total of 1 million 985,000 children were reached by organized forms of healing on November 1. This is 28 percent of the total number of school - age children. Of these, more than 562,000 children are cured in children’s sanatoriums, over 660,000 children in rural health care facilities, 385,000 in preschool camps, 107 in labor and rest camps, and 67 in training camps. In the summer of 2002, there were nearly 11,000 different types of health facilities in Ukraine. The rest and recovery of children was based mainly on allocated funds from the State Budget, local budgets, funds from enterprises, institutions, organizations, professional associations, the Social Insurance Fund, the Chernobyl Foundation, non-budgetary funds, and voluntary contributions from legal and physical persons and parental expenses. In total, about 360 million dollars were directed from the listed sources to the child’s health organization last year. Special attention was paid by the local executive authorities to the rehabilitation of children of socially vulnerable categories in the summer of 2002. Such children are cured 90,000, I mean orphans, children deprived of parental care. This is almost 90 percent of all orphans in our country. Nearly 170,000 children who were affected by the Chernobyl nuclear accident were healed. This is 23 percent of all children with this status. There's a 35 percent increase in the number of children with disabilities, and it's 32.4 thousand, although we understand that it's extremely small, although much more than it was in 2001. Best indicators for the recovery of children in the Donetsk region, Zaporzik, Poltavsk, Lugansk, Kharkiv, Cherkas region. During the summer, 63 such health facilities were established and operated in a purposeful way to treat children with divinative behavior. More than 500,000 children were transported by the Railroad to health facilities free of charge. The Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Public Health, Mintrans, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Public Health, the Ministry of Public Health, the Ministry of Public Health, the Ministry of Public Health, the Ministry of Public Health, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Public Health, and the local authorities. Thank you to all the deputies who helped organize the child’s health in 2002. However, there were some shortcomings in the organization of a health - care company last year. In Ternopil, Lviv, Ivano-Frankiv, Zakarpatski, Žitomir and Volinsk regions, the number of children cured is much lower than the average in Ukraine. Not everywhere in the region were health measures prepared in time for the summer season. The state’s epidemiology service issued 44 warning decrees prohibiting the use of health facilities and 407 prescriptions. Departments, departments, local authorities, according to their competence at their meetings, colleges, seminars, have reviewed the findings of a health company. The results, shortcomings, and causes of their emergence were analysed at the All - Ukrainian Selectorial Meeting last December. To implement the Supreme Council’s decree of June 11, last year, with the aim of creating a conducive environment for the quality of the rest and well - being of children by the State Family and youth, along with other central and local authorities, a national program for the rest and recovery of children has been developed and approved this year until 2008. What does it foretell, and what basic tasks are foreseen? First of all, it's a gradual increase in the number of children who will receive health services every year, no less than 10 percent. On what account? By improving the network of children's health facilities; by introducing those health facilities that are not yet working and creating new ones; by improving the legal and regulatory framework, by creating conditions for the implementation of socio-pedagogical and health-enhanced innovative rest and recovery projects for children; and by strengthening the human potential of health facilities. Organizational arrangements for the preparation and implementation of the 2003 health care company First. In order to ensure a quality level of recreation and child recovery in all regions of Ukraine, regional programs have already been developed in line with the national program of healing. They are now being considered in adjuvants or in district council sessions. It's different. Coordination boards have been set up, and structures have been set up to coordinate the organization of child health and rest. Tenders have now begun in place to identify institutions that will make children better at budget costs. Health care providers are taking steps to prepare them for the summer recovery season. In April and April, all of these facilities will be tested, and practical assistance will be provided to prepare for the opening of health facilities. The ministries and other central executive authorities that organize the child’s health and rest have developed appropriate programs and identified priority measures for their implementation. The State Committee on Family Affairs and young people, together with local executive authorities, have created, practically completed, the inventory of health care facilities, first of all, institutions, a network of data on the network of children’s health facilities, generalized information on the planned financing of the child’s annual health care, and the extended categories of children who will be healed at the expense of government and local budgets. A seminar was held with regional workers responsible for organizing and healing and with directors of health facilities from all parts of Ukraine. We'll spend May months, early in May, the All-U.S. Selectorial Council on Preparations for the Health Campaign, and this will certainly be preceded by a check at the places where each health facility is ready. Regarding the funding of the health campaign in 2003. The budgets of all levels, including central executives, accumulate funds for the organization and rehabilitation of children this summer. As of March 1, 2003, there are 93.6 million dollars in district, city and district budgets for the target, and nearly 80 million dollars are planned to be added. We have information from every area under the signature of the deputy heads of the state administration. The State budget provides 14 million dollars for the rehabilitation of children in the NDC Artek. The Ministry of Emergency Expenditure amounts to 155.5 million dollars, the Minagropolitics - 4.5 million, the MON - 1 million, the Holdcomsimiyoung - 2.5 million, the Social Insurance Fund - 77 million. Funding for recreation and children’s organization is planned for social organizations, charities, and foundations. So we plan to raise 427 million dollars this year and increase the number of healthy children by at least 10 percent compared to 2002. Central and local authorities of the executive branch of children’s health facilities are tasked with creating appropriate conditions, expanding the list of health services that will promote the competitiveness of Ukrainian children’s health. And an increase in the amount of parental money involved. According to the State Department, 14 percent of the parental funds were allocated to fund the rehabilitation of children last year. One reason for this is the lack of public awareness of the health services offered and the orientation of a number of eligible citizens to raise children abroad. With a view to informing the public, the State Committee of Information Policy, Television, and Broadcasting, together with the State Committee on Information and Social Advocacy, plans to put information on Ukraine’s health base on the Committee’s website as soon as possible. The National Tourism Administration, along with the State Committee on Family and Youth Affairs, will hold the first All - Ukrainian Health Service Fair this May. With the aim of organizing full health care, children's rest in Ukraine, stimulating the activities of children's health institutions, the cost of travel this year will also continue to be taxed on added value, and we will control more severely how local authorities grant benefits to children's health facilities, primarily for the salaries of utilities, food purchases, local taxes and assemblies, as provided for by the 1997 Cabinet of Ministers. However, the introduction of articles 55 of the Ukrainian State Budget 2003 Act, the 50 per cent rate paid for land by children's health establishments will lead to travel. To your knowledge, by January 1, 2003, children's health facilities under the Ukrainian Land Pay Act had been completely exempt from the land tax. This will have a special effect on the ability to heal children of families below the average, or the average, wealth and children of the underprivileged categories. The slide shows how much the cost of travel is going to increase with the introduction of a 50 percent interest rate on land payments, depending on the cost of land. So I'm asking you to support the proposal of the National MP, Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan, to suspend this article for this year so that we can deal with this issue this year. Next. The characteristics of the children’s facilities base and the state of their readiness for the summer health campaign. In line with your decision last year and with the National Programme for Child Health, the local executives have practically completed their work on the inventory of the existing health and health base for children. For the operational information of the network of such facilities, we have 1,000 10 health facilities for 278,000 beds. Now, together with the local authorities, we are preparing passports for every institution that will characterize, which will fully characterize these institutions, their capabilities, and what needs to be done with them. This year, of course, will be more effective than last year’s fixed, rural health camps. However, the analysis shows that 90 fixed children’s health facilities this year will still not function out of a thousand tens because they need capital repairs and their owners are in poor financial condition. Therefore, the question of their future fate will be resolved throughout the year by owners, along with local executive authorities and self - government, by the unions. According to the State Department, on average children’s health facilities last year functioned for 64 days, more than in the previous year. Yet it is a vital issue to organize a year-round recovery for children, which will increase the cost of operating the facilities and cost the cost of travel to them. We now have 17 health - care facilities in our country for 9.7 thousand jobs each year, and 53,000 children have been cured in the past year. The state programme provides that every area should be prepared during this year and that no less than 52 health facilities should work year-on-year as of 2004. Along with a health base in every area, plans are being made to expand the network of day care camps, labor camps and rest camps, tent towns and other types of children's health facilities, which perform an important function in terms of the employment and organized leisure of children, the development of their interests and abilities during the canical time, and social rehabilitation. The State's program of rest and recovery for children is defined as a minimum period of at least 14 days, but the term of the child's stay in a sanatorium should be at least 24 days, at least 18-21 days at a sanatorium. And this will be set out in the Model Regulations on a Health Facility that is being developed by a Young Man and will be submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers. Special attention needs to be given to the conservation and effective use of a sanatorium base for the treatment and recovery of children. There are 183 children’s sanatoriums in the country for 37,000. bed-town. They are owned by the Ministry of Health, Education, Agrarian Politics, University of Health and others. For the purpose of improving the health and treatment of children who need it, there are issues of opening adolescent wards in sanitariums and sanatorium treatment for children with diabetes mellitus, oncco, oncco-hematological and chronic diseases. At present, a number of children’s sanatoriums do not work. The rest -- with an extremely good, proper medical and material and technical base -- is not being used enough. Among the reasons for this is the imperfect mechanism for financing them and the lack of funding in budgets at different levels. Inadequately used is the sanatorium base of the Eupatoria Children's Hospital, which has 31 children's sanatorium facilities, which have unique natural capabilities and modern medical and rehabilitation equipment, which can be convinced by the Ukrainian National Deputies who visited these facilities. That's why this children's health center needs to come back, it's said, face-to-face, and it's a government programme that will soon be developing a national program for the development of an all-U.S. child health clinic in Eupatoria. The important work carried out by the central, local executive and self - government authorities in improving the organization of child health and rest is the venerable presence, the honourable deputies, the work carried out by the central, local executive authorities, and the self - control bodies. As you can see from the materials we've given you, and from my brief information, we have positive changes, but they certainly don't comfort us at all. We need to work very hard and purposefully in coordination. There are a number of problems that need immediate solutions at the state level. First, we need to develop a more effective mechanism for financing health campaigns from both the State and the local budgets. The State Committee, together with other central executive authorities, develops a state order for the rehabilitation of children in socially vulnerable categories. The main criterion of this document will be the clear delimitation of the categories of children that will be healed at the expense of the State Budget, at the expense of local budgets. We're in the process of developing a market position for health services. A solution is needed to preserve the network of children’s health facilities, regardless of the form of ownership and subordination, and to prohibit the removal and retraining of the child’s health base. We have to do all of these 1,100. The 1010 facilities that we have should restore them, and that should be the minimum of facilities where the child's recovery is taking place. In the event of the owner's inability to maintain a health facility, it is necessary to decide whether to transfer them to municipal property, and to suspend the operation of article 155 of the State Budget Act on payment for land by children's health institutions. We need to make changes to the Ukrainian National General Insurance Act on mandatory insurance for children who are being treated in sanatorium and child health facilities at the expense of the Social Insurance Fund for temporary disability loss. A successful summer recovery of children, an increase in the number of children receiving these services and receiving quality services, requires coordinated action and central authorities and local executive authorities, trade unions, and social organizations. That's what the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is working on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u89	Thank you. Please sign up for questions. Light up, please. Let us in turn have a written and oral question. Please, Andrew School, oral question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u90	Mrs. Longzhenko, I would like, of course, to listen to your report, where it's all written in such ingrained colors -- it's getting bigger, it's going to fly up -- go down to the ground, because in this situation, it's going to heal the children that are being disbursed by the state from all the funds, from all the things that they would have. Who can be healed by 360 million? This is because the number of children in need of recovery is at least one million 20. And if you take such prospects that someone may not need to be healed. And yet, from the Lviv region of just last year, virtually, no child from my district at the expense of the state has, in fact, recovered. All of this was resolved through a preeminent program, and people, in particular, went to the national MPs and spent money, the railway gave and so on. This is, in principle, unacceptable. Why is there such a imbalance in the recovery of children, and what does this have to do with it? In Lviv, are the most healthy children, especially in my constituency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u91	Dear Mr. School, thank you for asking. In fact, at least 3 million children need to be healed because of about 3 million of the 6 million schoolchildren who are on the job. Last year, the government committed itself to rehabilitate some 2 million children. And I'm reporting that we've cured 1 million 985,000. And no matter how much less money was budgeted last year, but the local authorities, the central authorities, worked and mobilized 360 million in the past year, and there were 240 million in the past year. Although I agree with you that's not enough. And so I would like to stress once again that there is virtually no district, district, or city budget for this year, where these costs are not foreseen. And in general, we're going to raise 427 million money, and so we're going to increase the number of children that are going to be cured. The other is about Lviv. I didn't name the Lviv region among those who are in poor health care, and that is, indeed, yes. And unfortunately, last year, after the Supreme Council meeting, the State Committee in its college was discussing the move of the healing organization, and we were forced to address the head of the district government in order to bring responsibility to the head of the body. Well, there wasn't an organ at the time. There was youth politics and sports. The Office for Family Affairs and Youth has now been restored. And we're going to do everything we can to get in the Lviv region, as in Žitomirsky, as in Ivano-Frankivsky, as in Ternopil and Zakarpatsky, where much fewer children are cured than in Ukraine as a whole, to bring this up. They were really bad at work there last year. I'm ready to sit down with you to consider these issues together.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u92	It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u93	Letters? The deputy faction "Our Ukraine" asks what level of health care is envisaged for the government in 2003, and above all for orphans, children with disabilities, children with low-income families, children with low-income families. I already told you that last year, 1 million 985,000. This year we need to heal at least 2 million 200,000. And the whole program is that in five years, we have to get to the number of children who are cured all year round, up to 3 million. Including we're not less than 170,000 children will be cured by Chernobyl, we're practically all orphans will be cured and we'll increase the number of children with disabilities who will be cured, I told you, 32.4 thousand at least by 20 percent will be increased the number of children with disabilities who will be cured this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u94	Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u95	Alexander Stoyan, head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. Dear Valentino Ivanovno, you've named the number that 1 million children have been cured. I'm calling the number that was the line of health, 100,000, that's 600,000, that's the state line, that's everything else, at the expense of the business leaders, the unions, the social worker, and partly the parents. And they called the figure 360 million dollars that were allocated. I mean, officially, not a single penny to the union committees, but the business leaders didn't get out of this 360 million. My question is, Where did the money go? Only 600,000 children who were cured. And second, Valentino Ivanovna, here we have to share where they're going. The second question. I thank you for supporting my bill that we should immediately abolish the tax on land for the sanatoriums of our children's and health camps. In the summer, I'm surprised to see the person who introduced this bill. Never was the budget filled by these funds from the children’s camps. Imagine, today the camps are not working, they are only working for three months, and as of January 1, they have to pay for these camps. So what I'm saying is, Valentino Ivanovna, you have to fight anxiety, not just say who it is. Because 600 camps, the main camps where children of Ukraine are being healed, will be closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u96	Ask questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u97	I ask the question: Who has passed this bill from the government, and why has it not been repealed until now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u98	Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, first of all, I am in that room where laws are passed, including the budget, including the budget, where the new budget for the health facilities of article 55 is foreseen. Once again, I would like to support your proposal and ask the deputies to suspend this article. This is the first time. It's different. We're in the state, we're in the trade unions, we're in the national MPs, and we're in the executive power, we're using the only statistics -- the state statistics. You've all been given that stat. This is the recovery of children in the summer of 2002. And in this stat, we're going to find all the numbers. Both related to their finances and related to their expenses, the redistribution, and the number of children who are cured. That's what I said in my report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u99	Please have written questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u100	How is recreation planned in the summer of 2003? I answered that question. And once again, I want to say that we're tasking 2.2 million children to get better. The budgets of the local 93.6 million are already available, 80 million are available to raise extra-budgetary funds, and there is already a deal to do so. The Social Insurance Fund plans to target 77 million people. And only 427 million dollars. And increase the number of children's health facilities in the first place. 1010 subtracts 90, they're not ready in a year, we're not ready to order them, there's 920 out-of-town camps left to work. We should increase the number and increase the number of preschool camps, labor camps, and recreation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u101	Masenko Alexander Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u102	Thank you, Masenko, the Communist faction. Valentino Ivanovna, I am interested in these two questions. In your statement, you pointed out that if a health - care provider fails to perform his direct functions there, it is a matter of transferring him to municipal property. And where these organs were, they were headed by you and others. At a time when everything was falling apart when what was created was being broken, a system of entire health camps for children. And then everyone looked around, there was no one to hear, and now let's do it again. This is a very important question. And here, your role needs to be defined as well. Now there's another question. So you're talking about lack of funding. And how the budget was approved, how the budget was accepted, what they did not stand on the rostrum and turn to the deputies — honourable deputies! Children are sick, children are disabled, children are killed, they need to be healed, let's add something! There was no voice. No, not just you, but a lot of people didn't hear a voice. Well, what are we, or what, then the person who says that gets in the way of mercy or how he does it, can't you say that?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u103	Mr. People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u104	Comrade.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u105	Comrade National Deputy, I'm not afraid to get in the way of mercy, and you know that I've been in a lot of trouble. That's the answer to your question, first. Secondly, I was standing here on June 11th on this stand and I told you everything and you made a decision, and we promised to support it, and we are very grateful that you supported it. It is thanks to the support of the deputies that we have in our budgets this year, primarily local authorities and central authorities, that we have more money than we did last year. I would very much like to have as much in the state budget and in the local budgets as it takes for each of the 6 million children to recover. Sadly, though, the realities of today are not exactly the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u106	It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u107	Government measures to increase to four changes throughout the summer the term for the rehabilitation of orphans and children deprived of parental care. Ladies and gentlemen, I've told you that, on the average, the health camp works for 64 days in the summer, it's extremely small, as you can see, even though it's more than 2001. In order for health institutions to survive, in order for health institutions not to have to, as the National MP says, re-profile, transfer from one property to another, we need to increase their efficiency by increasing the number of days they work. And the State Program for Child Health provides this. I told you that we have 17 health facilities now working for 10,000 jobs a year. And over the course of this year, we will be preparing, along with the local authorities, 52 other health facilities that will work over the year. And so we're going to increase it not just to 4 changes, but we're going to increase the number of healthy changes that are going to work effectively in health care institutions and to heal children, especially those who are socially vulnerable.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u108	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u109	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Valentina Ivanovna! I was talking to you about what's threatening Odessa's Young Guards. Unfortunately, I didn't see in that list where people from your committee were coming out, and what's going on, I can quote, let's say, this kind of reference. “Today we have been turned into statisticians who only have to count the pioneer camps cut to pieces, the trees cut to pieces. Children have disappeared along with the pioneer organization in the cities.” This is addressed to the Black Sea Coast Committee against what Bodelan does. Please tell me, you probably know what's going on there when even at the children's center run by Boris Litwak, they took the children after rehab, they took the premises to pass on to others. [[a house with an angel where]] Is there any way in the government that they can fight against the disembarking of Ukraine or the capture of anything that can be captured? Doesn't the government want to raise it to a government level? I'm in a lot of pain. I've been talking to you before. I was talking to Yanukovich. I spoke to Kinach. I've already addressed the President. I'm talking to you again. Valentina Ivanovna, can we stop the bodelans or can't we?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u110	I'm going to answer a question about the Young Guard. Indeed, this is a question that I cannot solve as head of the central authority. I'm once again informing the people's deputies that Young Guard health camps are owned by a public organization and all we can do and we'll do is engage Young Guard as a health camp -- ownership of a public organization -- to give it a government order to organize there to heal children, especially children who are socially vulnerable. In order to make other decisions, it is necessary that there be grounds for, legislative grounds, factual grounds for change of ownership.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u111	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u112	We have, by the way, 1 percent of health facilities in the state are privately owned establishments.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u113	A written question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u114	The problem is the recovery of children who are foster parents for minors. During the past year, 91 shelters in our custody have provided social assistance to 30,000 homeless children. Last year, I said, for the first time, we set up 63 health facilities for such children, not just for those who are in shelters, because this is a temporary stay, but for those of us who are in the services of minors, as those who are prone to delinquency, we have 37,000 of them. And in 63 health care institutions last year, children in this category were undergoing both recovery and social rehabilitation, including from the families of the disadvantaged in which they live.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u115	Melniczuk. Mikola Melniczuk. Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u116	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Valentina Ivanovna, I'm proud of the mastery of a hairdresser who did your report because there's 70 percent of the lie. But please pass the word to Valentina Seminouk, I would have continued.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u117	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Valentino Ivanovno, in 2000, 4,243 children were adopted in Ukraine, with 2,200 foreigners. This statistics show that, in fact, Ukraine is getting rid of such a problem and, more faithfully, it was actually started in 1999 as a work for foster families. We don't even have the legal status of this community organization today, except for the city of Kiev, where Omelchenko organized such a work on public grounds. Please tell me what the government is doing to control foster families, to function them, to finance them, because this is the most, I would say approachable, real help to those children who have gone into the family and whose parents have taken with such courage to take a foster child. What is being done in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u118	Thank you very much, Valentina Simeonovna, for that question. In 2001, the Supreme Council passed a child - protection law, and this law provides that family forms of child rearing will be preferred and that these may be family homes or foster families. And it was only after the law provided that the government was able to develop and adopt in 2002 a position on children's homes and foster families in April-month. And before that, in 98-99, we were only doing this in the order of the experiment in Zaporezium. And after April-month, we are now widely organizing, distributing this form of foster care and maintenance of orphans or children deprived of parental care, and not only in Kiev, Kiev, but also in the areas of Zaporezka, Odessa and other areas. Currently, with a normative basis, foster families are actively starting to be established, and services for minors and our administrations are helping these families and monitoring compliance with legislation on these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u119	Letters, please. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u120	A foster family has legal status since April 2002, when the government approved by its decree the provision for a foster family. In Kiev and elsewhere, foster families of local authorities are formed on the basis of this normative document. And thanks to Melniczuk. I was sure that in the Supreme Council we have real men who notice everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u121	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u122	"How many children in rural areas, children with disabilities, in general, are cured and will be healed. I want to inform you right now that statistics don't divide our children into rural children, into urban children. I'm telling you again that 1 million children are cured. There are children in rural and urban areas. However, there are 97 children’s health institutions in the Ministry of Agricultural Policy, and in 2002 more than 80,000 children were cured; this year more than 10 percent of the children in these institutions will also be healed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u123	Please, Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u124	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Valentina Ivanovna, I have a question. Before the question was raised, there was a discussion of the 55th section of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2003. This article is known to introduce a 50 per cent land tax. And one of the MPs was surprised to ask who was making it, and who was voting it? I mean, they voted, practically, all the factions except for the Communist faction, for this article. But I have a question: you are now proposing to suspend this article. But in the Cabinet of Ministers, you opposed its introduction because it was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers into the draft budget, and, as I said, almost unanimously voted by all but the Communists and some other faction? Yeah, just communists, that's all they say.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u125	Dear National MPs, there is a need to correct the error made by the central executive authority and the national deputies: I ask you very much for the children to do so, and we will consider carefully for a year how much land there is. You know, we have camps that have a lot of land. You and I will determine how much land there should be and how much money to set, and for the next year it will be news for us at all, as you understand. To make a balanced decision next year. That's why I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u126	A written question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u127	It is known that in the past year, despite the fact that the government has achieved an increase in the number of children who are cured during the summer, the duration of their stay in health facilities has been substantially reduced to 10 to 14 days. In such a short period of time, it is impossible to achieve significant changes. What will the government's policy on this issue be this year?" You know, when I told you on June 11, last year about the process of healing children, we were talking about opening 12,000 different types of health facilities. And today I'm saying that we've only found 11,000. And they went through the statistics. Why, because thousands of health facilities have not fully met the conditions that are needed, and children have been cured for less than 14 days. And we didn't include them in statistics at all. The State Program now provides that 14 days is the minimum for health camps, 24 days for sanatoriums, and 18 - 21 for health camps. And this is put in a typical position, which is designed and submitted for approval by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u128	Gennady Josephovich Vudovenko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u129	Dear Valentina Ivanovna, so that you don't take offense at us national MPs, I'd like to commend you a little bit. And after the restoration of the activities of the Ministry and the young and the appointment of you to the office, you have become very active in the protection of both the family and the young. I was at a college meeting that summed up work last year, and I'm happy to celebrate your work. My question is to continue what Comrade Carmazin has violated. I've had to do the Young Guard thing for two years. This pearl was, like, 12,000 children's health year round. Now we've brought this pearl to 3,000, last year it rested 3,000. The Ukrainian high school, which was created there so that children could continue their studies, was destroyed. What can we do anyway? You said you couldn't do anything anymore. I think we need to re-establish some interdepartmental commission, go there and finally figure it out and change the owner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u130	Gennady, a public organization, a federation of children’s and pioneers’ organizations in Ukraine Dear Gennady Josephovich, I support your offer, and I commit myself to doing everything I can to make sure that things are done in detail, along with the local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u131	Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u132	What number of children this year will be cured in state and municipal health institutions, and what is the number of nonstate properties? I want to say that according to the State Committee on Statistics last year, we had children's health institutions, 83 percent of which are health establishments in municipal property, 11 percent in collective property, 4.6 percent in public property and 1 percent in private property. All institutions, regardless of the form of ownership, need to be set at the same level, the same conditions for everyone on a competitive basis to win the opportunity, on a tender basis, to obtain a government order, first of all, for the recovery of socially vulnerable children. We don't run statistics on how many children are getting better, but I did tell you what percentage of us have of children's health facilities and who own them.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u133	Leonid Mikhailovich Vernigor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u134	Vernigore, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I agree, Your Honor Valentina Ivanovna, with Hennady Josephovich, that we have recently had a bit of a hard time discussing and listening to these questions. But why Mikhailo Melniczuk had the right to speak about 70 percent of the truth, I will also speak. And now I want to ask you this question in person. I've been addressing the Cabinet of Ministers for a few years now, to you. The fact that there is a tax on the ground is expensive. But do you know what it means to be a suburban, foreign pioneer there or any health camp to support and open these camps? Twenty-four organizations are accompanied by their audit and other activities. And we made all these numbers. I'm not talking about the bags they make every day. I'm not talking about what shelters of older groups do to prevent these test subjects. So at this cost, we could cure another 20 percent of the children who can't get into these camps. Why don't you use it? There's no need for the Supreme Council here. Your orders are required. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u135	I agree with you that there is a need for order in this matter. And it's important that all organizations that are involved in monitoring the functioning of health facilities check everything, issue conclusions, and then make it possible for these health camps to function during the healing season. I agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u136	Do you have a letter?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u137	Yes, of course. What are the criteria for a decision to recover from the state funds of a child, since not all children in need of recovery and whose parents are unable to pay for it are provided with State aid? You know that the state budget is going to make poor children, children deprived of parental care, children who have suffered from the Chernobyl accident, children with disabilities, children of lost miners, children who have been killed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It's all right. Each local authority creates a tendering committee with representatives of local authorities, from representatives of public organizations. And they take after studying applications from health institutions, they give priority to those where bed-to-day costs are lower and where quality and complex services are provided.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u138	Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u139	Thank you. 83 constituency, Communist faction, Anatoly Frost. Dear Valentina Ivanovna, every year we discuss the issue of child recovery. But as you may think, it should be considered, not before the process begins, but at the end of the healing process, as well. How did the healing work out? What are the problems facing the health institutions and, we will talk about, the day before the next, so to speak, the recovery season for our children? That's the first one. At this point, we would hear simple information about the state of our health facilities that are already being prepared for the adoption of children. That's the first one. And the second. Last year, I was just asking you a question about a company called Half-Dieselmash, which had its own pioneer camp called Sunshine, and it was taken out of the Constitutional Fund. [[This is Tokmak Zaporozhi region]] Today it's there for a penny and so on. It hasn't worked for several years, and it doesn't matter to anyone in the law enforcement system, nor to the internal affairs, nor to the authorities, we'll talk, all levels. The company was for 400 children. Today it's dead. You promised to set up a commission, but unfortunately, there's a visa and now there. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u140	Well, I totally agree with the Supreme Council's decision. If last year the Supreme Council was looking at this issue right in the midst of the health campaign on June 11th, we are looking at it in advance -- three months before the beginning of the healing season, and it will enable both the government, and the central executive authorities, the local authorities, to work more effectively and in the execution of the programme, and by following up on the decision that the Supreme Council will be adopted. And last year, in October, we gave information about how the election campaign was organized, and this year, we certainly do too. After the end of the healing season, this information will be provided. I said in my statement that we have from the 1010 health facilities we did a real inventory with the local authorities last year, and we now have a full database of data: how many establishments where they are, who is in charge, whose property, and what problems are. I told you in a short speech today that we really have problems in 90 establishments and I said in my speech that it would require a legislative solution to prevent the retraining of a child's establishment during privatization or during the change of the owner.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u141	Time's up. Please have a seat, Valentina Ivanovna. Please. Melniczuk's microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u142	Dear Valentino Ivanovna, I meant the hairline of your report, in the numbers you brought in. And the other thing I'm going to say is, if I could honestly hear in your report what's really going on with children in Ukraine, it would be different. I'm just two examples of the Chernobyl area, the Sadgir Anti-Tuberculosis Sanatorium. December 70 per day is allocated for one child’s maintenance. What could be there? The Šerbinski sanatorium of the Novoseltsky district of Cherniewec, where children’s anemia was treated once 10 years ago. We're driving to Cuba, to be treated abroad! Today this sanatorium doesn't work. Children don't get better. If I had heard that in Ukraine as a whole, perhaps others would have been. I realize there's a lot going on with you, and I appreciate it. But we, the parliamentarians, don't have to feed us with numbers that don't match the reality at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u143	All right, let's get this over with. As reported by the chairman of the Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sports, and Tourism, Samylik Catherine Semenovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u144	Dear national MPs, distinguished members of the government! The Constitution recognizes health as one of the highest values of social life, but this is according to the Constitution, and real life proves otherwise. An analysis of national and sectoral statistics shows that the medical demographic situation in Ukraine has deteriorated significantly over the past 11 years, and there has been an increase in the incidence and prevalence of diseases among young people in all classes of diseases. Adolescent disease has increased 1.6 times during this period, and disease prevalence has increased 1.7 times. This data shows exactly what assessment we can give today of the activities of 12 ministries and government committees in fulfilling their functional responsibilities in dealing with child health and rest. With a view to improving the health of the population and, in particular, children and young people, dozens of important documents are accepted annually in Ukraine. For example, in 2000, more than 120 legal acts were adopted that directly relate to the health of citizens. And what do we have when we analyze them in regions? The working group of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in preparation for the Government Day studied the state of the children’s rest and recovery in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, analyzed the work of the child recovery organization in Ukraine as a whole last year. According to the 2002 healing season, a whole bunch of troubles that haven't been solved in years have been discovered, and I want to focus all of you on the following problems. First. During the period of health campaigns, the transfer of children’s camps to other owners, in some cases uncivilized methods, was carried out. In this connection, I can't help but draw the attention of government day participants and to the question of the most famous health care centre, the Youth and Child Center, Artek. Prior to the transfer of Artek to the State Administration of the President of Ukraine, the region had the opportunity to encourage orphans, children deprived of parental care, underprivileged children, educational differences, gifted children. Today, there are commercial interests and recreation for children, mostly rich parents. Here's your subordination. The existing programmes for the recovery of children by region, as well as the President's decrees, as well as the government's decrees have a declaratory recommendation, are not supported by any funds or clear requirements for those officials who are involved in organizing and carrying out child recovery. The power outages of dozens of rural health camps are not planned or implemented. More and more commercial structures are emerging, for which child - rearing is primarily a business for one or two seasons. Children from ecologically unfavourable regions were healed at their place of residence. This is primarily explained by the dispersal of funds for the recovery of children and by the attitude of the public men to take care of the matter. They understood the financial problems that exist in the areas. But it takes both responsibility and conscience to heal the Chernobyl children in their often polluted areas exclusively so that the money allocated for recovery stays in the district budget. At the same time, sanatoriums are specialized -- in Crimea, in the Carpathians -- with appropriate equipment, excellent methods, experienced personnel, unique natural possibilities remain half full. Who is responsible, and who will answer that question from the heads of the ministry and the districts? The issue of free medical examination of workers who are sent to work in children’s health facilities remains unresolved. In the Kirovograd region, for example, students who were trained in these institutions spent a fourth of their wages on the purchase of a health book. There is a lack of training. They don't usually do specialized classes with students. The cost of maintaining children’s health facilities has only increased by 40 percent in recent years. And the cost of the budgets of all levels for the recovery of the children of the extended contingent remains essentially unchanged during this time, and that's why it's being received. Last year, the Hmélník Region did not have any funds for the rehabilitation of children in the category. And the funds from the State Budget came only in August -- at the end of the healing season. The network of sanatorium camps has decreased significantly. At the same time, in some regions more than two thirds of the school age have significant health problems and require special treatment rather than just summer rest. Significant problems have arisen from the fact that funding for child rest is done, not by calculating the number of children, but by the number of insured persons. The difference in grants is between 200 and 27 dollars per child. According to the State Department of Fire Safety, although we spoke, many tests have been carried out, but for years basic firefighting facilities in children’s health camps have not been carried out. From the information we've been informed today, it's also not clear who will be dealing with the child's recovery this year -- whether the State Committee on Family Affairs and Young People or eventually the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will be dealing with this matter. With regard to the proposed draft decision. First of all, I ask you to pay attention to all the national deputies. It is not clear from the government's information why, in fact, ignored recommendations were made in a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the steps taken by the Cabinet of Ministers to organize the rehabilitation of children in the summer of 2002 at number 100 of July 11. It's about defining the state budget as a separate line protected by the allocation line for children's health care, setting up a public health order, developing an economic incentive mechanism for children's health facilities and partial subsidies from state and local budgets for such facilities, and maintaining a network of especially health-care facilities. Regrettably, these vital points of our determination are either half - fulfilled or unfulfilled. In doing so, it is excessive to provide for appropriate compensation for the local budgets of communities in which the majority of hospitals are located. After all, the exemption from the land tax, which allows for the cost of travel, and then the increase in sanitation, on the other hand, deprives individual local budgets of corresponding revenues, which are basic utilities for the same health - care providers. And that's why we have to go in differentially. We know that total exemption from land tax on. The Eupatoria today is practically zero in the local budget. That's why we asked the question: there must be a grant, there should be a government order. Don't we understand today how many disabled children we have, how many orphans, how many children we have? Yet, that is well - known. And the state has to anticipate this kind of cost. Then there will be no questions that arise today. If the government, for example, fails to make proposals to the Supreme Council, it has more effective measures. But reality is making it right. With each passing year, the recovery situation is only getting worse. This year's introduction of a land tax for children's and health care institutions will not contribute to the effective implementation of the measures envisaged by the State's Recreation and Recovery Programme until 2008. Moreover, the law on this issue is planned only in 2005. The working group of the Supreme Council of Ukraine took a look at some of the sanatoriums in Europe. We were impressed by the possibilities of a medical base, highly professional personnel, and the most effective methods of treating a variety of diseases, such as resistors, and so on. We cannot help but stress the role of the Social Insurance Fund in providing health care for its temporary loss of employment, which cost 75 million dollars to partially finance the recovery of children in the past year alone. Even if funds were available in the fund, children were often unable to obtain these travels because of the lack of needed money in local budgets, hosts, or parents. And I'm convinced that we need to support the fund's funding proposals for 90 percent of its travel and 10 percent of it for insured people. I may be a little emotional, but believe me, when you see that children’s health is getting worse every year, and you know that there is a potential for improvement, and you see that as a result of many factors, there is no fundamental change for the better, it just hurts the soul. Our working group has come to the conclusion that in addition to today's consideration of how children can be cured in the summer, there is an urgent problem with the Government's holding a separate Day for the organization of comprehensive treatment of children with disabilities, children with chronic diseases, children with Chernobyl in sanatoriums and resorts in Ukraine. [[I'm done.]] We are also convinced that such a question is essential. I want to address all the committee heads, because this is a question that concerns everyone, all the national deputies and faction leaders. We've given you a draft Supreme Council ruling worked by a working group, but we very much ask you to make your proposals to it, because no committee, no Ukrainian national deputy, has the right to stay away from this issue. The time before the opening of this year’s healing season is not enough, so let us finish the matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u145	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Shershun Mikola Haritonovich, the next Rahansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u146	Mikola Shershun, Ukrainian Agrarian Party faction. Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues are present. Statistics show that in the last 10 years, the number of stationary out - of - the - city children’s facilities has declined nearly threefold. In particular, the existence of profiles and institutions belonging to state enterprises ceases to exist. Their future fate is similar to that of the whole world: they become mainly entertainment facilities for adults, or religious buildings. Convincedly, it is necessary to put an end to this and do everything possible to preserve a child’s health care facility. Local authorities are unable to provide adequate funding for an elderly health - care company because the State budget does not have a separate line of funds for these purposes. Thus, the problem of summer rest is solved by opening day camps at educational institutions. But such recreation is not adequate and in part solves the problem of organizing leisure and employment. There is no hot food in such camps, and the students are four hours a day. It is a matter of concern that more than 30 percent of all children covered by organized forms of recreation were in such preschool camps last year. This calls for special attention to the issue of financing the activities of children’s health institutions. Because over the last five years, there has been absolutely no funding for the rehabilitation of orphans in the winter. In addition, Mincrnobyl is very poor in financing the recovery of sick schoolchildren from radiation - contaminated areas. Thus, in the Plains region of last year, only 150 people were raised from nearly a thousand sick students for the so - called Chernobyl funds. Another problem we created with you was the adoption of the State Budget Act 2003. This is the same article 55. According to this law, health institutions should pay land taxes for the first time. This, of course, will lead to a journey. And I'd like to agree with my colleague, but I can't quite agree. As a result, many families will refuse to provide health care for their children. Finally, this will lead to a new breakthrough in the closure of such institutions, which are already barely bloating. So I urge all colleagues to make timely decisions that would free health care institutions from paying the tax. It is unlikely that Mrs. Longzhenko, with great respect for her and her subordinates, can carry out their duties of coronation, recreation and leisure for children and young people, having six or seven men in the states of district administration and practically not having appropriate departments. I think it is necessary to commit the State Committee on Family Affairs and Youth to the strictest of terms to establish in the regions a structure that could provide quality child recovery. Taking care of children’s health means putting a cross in Ukraine’s future. We need to understand that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u147	Thank you. Let's talk about it. 20 people were enrolled in factions. How will we act? Why don't we take a word from the factions? From factions, right? No, we won't have time. We must stop discussing this matter by 14 hours. Okay. How do we determine? From factions or a common list? A list? All right, let's go to the list. Please, Rahansky. Next Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u148	Anatoly Rahansky, "Trudova Ukraine", Epateorian constituency, Eupatoria, All-Ukrainian Child Health. Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, colleagues, members of the government, are invited! Today, we are considering one of the most important issues of our nation — the health of children. Public health is a prerequisite for high employment potential, an important indicator of the economic, social and cultural development of any state, of the efficiency of government. In political races, we often do not think about how children, especially those who are sick, are treated by our country. A working group preparing the Government Day on this issue, consisting of national deputies, ministries, and authorities, studied the situation at the Epatoria - U.S. Children’s Hospital. I would like to thank them for their effective work. Every year, the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, the government takes decisions, orders to organize the recovery of children during the summer period. The solution is based on 12 ministries and departments. But the health situation in Ukraine’s children today is catastrophic. In recent decades, children and adolescents have increased by 25 and 21 percent disabled. Such a situation requires decisions to be made after the recovery of children not only during the summer of the year but also for their recovery throughout the year. It is unacceptable for the state to have such a number of children's sanatoriums and, say, such as the Eupatoria National Children's Hospital, with its healing factors, schools for education, medical personnel, to leave their adult generation with the ability to improve health, especially children with disabilities. These facilities have long since moved from year to year in seasonal working mode. On the one hand, sick children or children who need health support from the other are empty sanatoriums. Having an international rehabilitation center in Eupatoria for Cuban children, we send children to Cuba. In one plane alone, we can treat about a thousand children in our health clinics. In my opinion, the state needs to clearly determine how many sanatoriums are needed for children by their disease profile, decide on the state order for the rehabilitation of children with disabilities, orphans, children of many children and low-income families. Do not privatize these facilities and re-profile them. It is possible to correct the situation if the health of children becomes one of the main priorities for the state and all levels of power, not in the policy-declaration documents, but in practice. The state does not have a resort management system. According to the adopted Law on Resorts, the State Department for the Activities of resorts has not been created, so necessary in the presence of sanitary facilities of various kinds of property and property. I believe that the draft decision needs to be finalized and adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u149	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, next one is Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u150	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Honorable national MPs, distinguished few members of the government, distinguished people of Ukraine! Of course, the question that is being considered today is a complex one, and the approach to this question was to be complex. What did the government do today? The question was called what? Government Day on Action by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Child Health Organization, Cabinet of Ministers All! What have they done? A woman was released. Thanks to Valentina Ivanovna for not being afraid of herself, but the question is the 12 ministries and the State Committees. The question is complex: the question and the Ministry of Social Policy, and health and other ministries and departments. What? A woman was released. I think I heard a speech today by the Deputy Prime Minister, at least I was worthy of an address at this level, is a speech by Catherine Semenovna Samolik, our national deputy, the head of the committee. It was a complex study of all the questions that were involved in this field. I would like to draw attention to what is being done here today. Under Odessa, there's a resort in Bilgorod-Dnistrovka, in Soviet times filled with people. Today, half of them seem to belong to Moldova. I'm addressing the President, I'm addressing the government, open your eyes, and not just in Odessa, drink vodka. I address the governor of Odessa, so they like to call themselves Mr. Greenewecki. Stay there and see what you're doing, what you did with those sanitariums where the children were being treated. I'm not saying what the map of Odessa is doing, that's the map of Odessa. I took a map of Odessa and noticed children's sanatoriums and houses that are now lost to the state. I call it the Yashi Hornienka Pioneer Camp; the Chivirin sanatorium; one for Bodelan's daughter; the other for others; the Young Energy Pioneer Camp; the Aurora Pioneer Camp; the Salut Children's Camp; the Black Sea Pioneer Camp, and so on. What if adults do not need to rest? Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that article 3 of the Law on Resorts says that Ukraine's public policy in the area of resort is built on the following principles: ensuring accessibility, first, for all and foremost, for people with disabilities, children and women of reproductive age. What do we care about our children? Article 26 prohibits the privatization of sanatoriums, which were at the time of the adoption of the law, were to be in state and municipal property. Everything is done the other way around. So I think that in three months we're looking at it the right way, but the question of accents is wrong. Here he had to report, co-report and report to the Attorney General of Ukraine, because the issue of national security -- the DUS for $400 a trip to Artek, Katerina Seminown, had to be named, what? There's no one here to provide. They've given away the soul, and now four more sanatoriums are giving away the soul. Dear government! Note what you are doing!!Oh, my God! You just want to destroy people's rest and recovery! Don’t mothers and fathers affect their children’s age, and do they not rest there? Thank you for your attention, sorry for your emotion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u151	Alexander Masenko, next School. Follow the Rules. Your colleagues won't be able to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u152	The honourable Chief, honourable deputies and present, I would like to point out once again that today, speaking on a number of occasions, they point out that it's not the budget that is so accepted, it's not supposed to be, they voted -- they didn't know that children's health institutions would be taxed, and they didn't know that. And where are those who voted? Why aren't they here today? This must be done by Hennady Andriyovich, to let the electorate know who they were delegating to the Supreme Council and how they cared for the children of Ukrainian citizens. There is no doubt that the healing of children should be carried out systematically, with high quality, especially in a large way, so that as many children as possible are covered by this action. But as with Valentina's information, I've come to realize that these are the very criteria that cannot be met by the government's efforts. It's not enough money, it's not a single line in the budget, it's something else that usually gets in the way. And then there's a situation where all of us don't have deputies like this because they didn't foresee it, only we have a merciful president and his wife: one destroys the state, the other destroys trains or trains, and then we leave, and that's mercy! You know, dear friends, I can't accept this at all, and I don't think it's within any framework of human ethics that fits when the actions of the President of our children, our people brought to such a disgraceful state, and on the other hand the wife does such a thing of mercy -- it has to be stopped, and so that it doesn't have to be heard. If she rents a few acres of land out there, sows the beetroots, and spills, and at her expense does that mercy, I will support her. At what cost is this mercy done, and at what cost is it good? The money that's been stolen from the people. And you can't accept that. And you can't accept that even the recovery of 10-14 days on the Black Sea doesn't help those children who are constantly starving, the colds that don't get what our children need. That's why I'm talking to the government again. I'm glad that Dmitri Volodymyrovich did come, though, in fact, I support Carmagazine, a small government we have very much. No matter what you listen to, you have reached some conclusions! And once again I turn to the majority: don't hide, don't be afraid, think about what you're voting for, and what decisions you're making, so that all of you, along with you and us, don't be ashamed of the people or the children of our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u153	Andrew School, next Polit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u154	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, National Assembly. I'd like to address the government first, of course. We do not have so many meetings, although not so often, but we would like them to be effective. You've heard of, of course, that every year there's an increase in the amount of money that goes to the children's health and rest, but so we hear that every time we miss them, because on the other hand we have to decide whether we want children in Ukraine to be healthy, or we don't want them to be healthy. Well, who's responsible for this, who's responsible? There's a structure and there's appropriate organs that have to come and say, "Dear peasants, your children didn't leave because that's why." Why do you have a trip to? No one thought, we have colossal resorts in Ukraine, we have a Rabbit. The journey to the Rabbit costs 2,000 dollars. What kind of child can recover from these costs? I was approached by the electorate. The child is sick, barely- -and then I couldn't convince the management of the resort centers, the rest facilities that there are, and the sanatoriums that are in the Rabbit to heal this child. She has no parents, grandparents are raising a child, 2,000 dollars. We don't have these funds, for example, the National MP can't do that. We put the money in the budget, we put it in, but we still don't have the opportunity to go to the voters and say, "We've got the money -- so kids can go." We're going to State Administration, they call it the DUSA, and I want the voters to know that this is the State Administration, which provides for the travel of the President abroad, to the President of Ukraine, who provides for his travel, life and activity. And this body is funded more than the healing of all children. No, I understand that we have a President more important than children, that's understandable, but not so much. And here, on the other hand, there's another category of work that can be done, another direction. These are private health bases that have been privatized, which, in principle, at the expense of government funds, for mismanagement, for crimes, for bribes, have received these resort centres and rest facilities. And you have to ask them, which one of them doesn't want to cure children, at least once a month? They should be given the opportunity if they want to be given the opportunity. And on the other hand, we have a huge failure in those facilities that remain. Here, please, the Lions. Well, I'm authorized by the Lviv. Brody, there's a beautiful rest center. They built the cologne at their own expense. All of this is being ruined. Here comes a fund that wants to help rebuild, the Holy Mary Foundation, and heal the children there. What does local leadership do? You say put funding on them. Local manager Petrushka fakes signatures, falsifies documents, fails to privatize, does not allow property, that is, the fund has this property at its disposal, and he is willing to privatize and sell counterfeit documents, and does not even allow it to count on what this fund, which is set up to heal children, can ever cure them. And that's why I need control here, and I'm going to go to the government so I don't expect the local authorities to care and do something there without getting used to it, and they're so used to it, they don't push and control it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u155	Andrew Polit, next Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, the report of the Cabinet of Ministers and the materials provided to them should certainly reassure everyone. Everything is planned: the recovery of children during summer holidays this year will be at the necessary and sufficiently organizational level. The report and statements of the people's deputies cast doubt on this. It is gratifying that this year we are considering this issue earlier than during the work on child recovery. In principle, I emphasize, in principle, and last year, the children have recovered. This was facilitated by the intensive work of public authorities, social funds and, above all, trade union organizations. But how much less this tension could have been, and the results were much higher if the problem of recovery had been given more attention and really needed attention. Of the 36,000 healthy children living in Kiev, about 600 are healed in Crimea, Nikolayevsky, Odessa areas, some 500 abroad, while the rest in Kiev, one of the most polluted areas in Ukraine. In Kiev, more than 240,000 children are to be cured. I do not want to reduce in any way the work done; I wish to draw attention to the shortcomings that need to be avoided in this recovery season. I am sure that in the State and local budgets, the cost of recovery needs to be set aside in a separate line rather than scattered across ministries. And these funds need to be allocated before the start of the healing season. There is a need to provide for concessional taxation of facilities that include child health camps, rehabilitation funds and wage funds for the camp workers. An important element would be the decision not to tax funds for recovery. Equally important is the provision of facilities for children's health camps to receive loans during the preparatory period. In respect of energy and utilities, rural tariffs. I cannot help but focus on providing treatment for children with disabilities and children with chronic diseases. As part of the working group of the Supreme Council, I became acquainted with the work of children's sanatoriums in the city of Eupatoria. The excellent base of sanatoriums, the availability of the latest and decades-long treatments, modern medical equipment and highly qualified professionals. Unique natural climate conditions, including healing mud, that are nowhere in the world. And 30-35 per cent filling capacity. This is because only children with disabilities in our country are over 150,000. I am deeply convinced that there is a need for a government order to organize round-the-clock treatments for children, especially in Eupatoria. Resilience disorders, cardiovascular diseases, child-bearing diseases are returning to the normal lives of young citizens. The sanatorium is virtually deserted from September to March. But they pay for utilities, wages, and so on. Problems of power-off during treatment of children with disabilities, problems of cost of travel and accompanying them to the treatment site, protection of payments, compensations and so on. In conclusion, I would like to speak briefly, I ask for 15 seconds, for the healing and treatment of Ukrainian children in Cuba in the health centre of the Taran. Two days ago, I came from Cuba, where I spent a lot of time downtown, and unfortunately I have to say that Cubans have a lot more heartache for our children than our country. They spend tens of millions of dollars on the treatment and recovery of our children, the content of the base, medicines, unique operations, the maintenance of staff, food and the implementation of the cultural mass programme, leaving the Ukrainians alone to transport. And I completely disagree with my colleague Rahanski, who, in my view, gives me questionable figures. I have real statistics on my hands, believe me, it's completely different. In general, we must be grateful to the Cubans for the amount of work they have done to help us first. And when I'm done, I want to understand the time limit. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u157	From Mikhailo Vasilovich Melniczuk. Turn on Melniczuk Mikhail Vasilovich's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u158	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region I ask you to convey the word to Vernigori Leonid Mikhailovich, who is responsible in our faction for the healing of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u159	You can't do that. Let us consult you if that is the case. Let's do it this way. I've offered factions -- once, two, three, four -- to speak. Listen, please. From the factions we're speaking and then we're done. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u160	Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! Today, this is the order of the day that needs to be told the truth because it is about children, and it is about our future. I said that I wanted to confirm what Mikhailo Vasilovich Melniczuk said about 70 percent of the lie because he and I had learned this perfectly in rural areas. Besides, I've been doing, you know, child health for 20 years, both on the union line and on the Social Insurance Fund. Let's be honest and tell people that the last 10 years we've only got 1 child out of 10. While 10 years ago, 1 child in 10 was not healed. These factions that adopted the land code here didn't want to come here today. I know why. Because when they destroyed the village, they destroyed the social infrastructure and today Valentina Ivanovna about what you said you were going to expand the school's healing, well let me tell you very gently as a woman that it's even more than a lie. You know. I'm glad that these health camps were held by the conglomerates and rasposas. You know that today it's not that they don't hold back, and today they don't even feed the younger kids in these schools. What can be a cure? I would like to remind you that our recovery in Ukraine has not been at the expense of the state for the past 10 years, but it has not been done at all. It is carried out at the expense of the householders. The unions and the Social Insurance Fund and no one else. And what you're asking to add states somewhere, someone there wants to help you, you don't have to do that, because the government doesn't run these processes completely, they can just look at it. The 360 million that you said were put on child health, it's not for the children's summer health, it's the money that our boarding school, the children's orphans in the summer months, and every area considers them to be a child's recovery. In fact, there is no allocation of funds. What I've said is, how much travel is needed, and at the same time, another 20 percent of the children can be cured. I would like to remind you that somehow you, Valentino Ivanovno, and the honourable Dmitri Volodymyrovich, do not want to tell people the truth that the Cabinet of Ministers is already working on an idea that's been under consideration for three months in the Supreme Council, that the Social Insurance Fund, with temporary loss of employment, which is the only funding for child health and treatment, is being passed on to the Pension Fund. You know, it's only meant to get rid of both sanatoriums and sanitation and child health. And I would like you, Vladimir Dmitrovitch, as Vice Prime Minister. Dmitry Volodymyrovich, I'm sorry, this is the problem that was solved in Parliament, and in the Cabinet of Ministers, and in the President's office, otherwise our hearings will make no sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u161	Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u162	Yes, I'm asking you to include in the ruling the unspoken text of Valentina Seminouk, she gave it here for a ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u163	Basil Nadrag, next up is Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u164	Dear colleagues! I'm not going to talk about the relevance of today's issue, I'm only going to say one thing. I believe that we must stand in the position that the recovery of children must be a continuous process. If the health of practically healthy people can be full in summer camps, children with health problems must certainly benefit from the enormous potential of children's sanatoriums. The presence of children in sanatoriums is more than a cure, an inseparable stage in their treatment. What is the situation with the treatment of children in Ukraine? Of the 450 sanatoriums, 183 are children per 27,000. In 2002, more than 180,000 were recruited for recovery. Is that a lot or a little bit? On the one hand, there are many but only 20 per cent of those children who are shown such treatment. Today, more than a total number of seats are not enough in the sanatoriums. Unfortunately, there is only one children's sanatorium in Truscavec for children with kidney disease when the disease is very common. Under the Ministry of Health, there is no sanatorium to treat patients with thyroid pathology, although blood diseases, diabetes are problems and the problem is large enough. However, I would like to say today at our Supreme Council meeting that there are a number of things that the Cabinet of Ministers must decide. This does not require laws or additional funding, but today it is necessary to improve the cost-financing mechanism for the recreation and rehabilitation of children through the temporary disability social insurance fund. There is an appropriate instruction number 15 of 26.06.01. The instruction implies that with this money we can only treat children under the age of 15. But this is contrary to the Child Protection Act, which defines a child under the age of 18. Next moment. To date, the problem of maintaining children's health facilities is closely linked to the payment of utilities. Today, children's out-of-town camps and all other children's care facilities pay community fees just as businesses pay. I think so. There is a need for the Cabinet of Ministers to initiate the development of an economic incentive mechanism for enterprises. Last. It's a fund-raiser. Dear colleagues, 70 per cent of the funding of children's sanatoriums last year is medicated by 72 per cent. On the basis of that logic, distinguished fellow MPs, I make two proposals. The first is that, in the budget of 2-4 years, you and I should be able to allocate funding to the sanatoriums of the Ministry of Health in full. And secondly, in 2003, I believe that Minfina and the State must be provided with full funding for planned spending on sanatorium operations, because 70 per cent against the background of 20 per cent of the children who visited it may not be enough. Therefore, we are deeply convinced that in such an association, in such actions we will be able to raise the situation of child health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u165	Vasil Grigorovich Hara, next Kirilo Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u166	Dear Gennady Andreevich, distinguished colleagues, I do not know how you are, but I am deeply convinced that today's hearings, as before, will do nothing for the practical cause of recovery. From all the information you and I have received from the report, of course. That the main cause of the poor situation, which is financed by parents, is only 14 per cent. The reason for this is the lack of awareness of health services and the fact that we have a lion's share of the population wishing to heal their children abroad. I think that this is only for people who are far from practical work or who represent a very rich and very prosperous State, but not Ukraine. Otherwise, it is easy to understand, to put it mildly, the false irresponsible information provided by the People's MP that, to date, listen! in all regions of Ukraine, children's health programmes are being implemented. All-level budgets accumulate funds, camp owners implement a camp preparation programme, and facilities are provided to enterprises that have a child health base. What is not, what is so sought by the organization of recovery, what is constantly requested and demanded by trade unions, seems to be true. It's gotta be done, it's gotta be done yesterday, today and tomorrow, but it looks like it's today's case. The authors of this amazing report may not know that we have lost hundreds of urban health camps in previous years, many of which will no longer be restored. The number of healthy children, especially adolescents, has decreased by millions. The earlier heights have been lost in the management of this important public affairs, training and retention of staff, education and so on. Apart from, of course, the objective economic difficulties that exist in the State, and in my view, that is the main reason, the destruction of the previously well-functioning system of the summer recovery of children managed by trade unions. The State has chosen to run the Socstrech in the trade union, and the State is today removing trade unions throughout the vertical line of power from the occupation. Instead, the structures are built up, states are built, and money is given there. By the way, when trade unions were involved, no amount of government funds were wasted. We have gathered in the Committee on Social Policy and Labour from the regions all the shortcomings of our past recovery. That could've been given a whole list. I'll pass it on, so to speak, for the record. But what I'm saying is that there's a very simple way out. First, the Cabinet of Ministers must take the courage to impose a moratorium on the closure, re-profiling and privatization of child health camps. I believe that this would solve the problem immediately if the Cabinet of Ministers agreed to make the general agreement an obligation of trade unions to assist the State in the organization of the preparation and the conduct of the child's annual recovery, so that trade unions would define a strategy for the further development of the most important State and society case, to determine the priority right of trade unions in that direction. Of course, an inventory of the material base should be carried out, and only as a result of this inventory would a genuine State programme be established, not the one represented. I am deeply convinced that the 2008 programme will not do anything at all. Thirdly, identify the sources of funding for the programme. They already exist today, just the State must understand the priorities. Even from the same social insurance fund for temporary disability, if planned in accordance with the law, regional programmes are to be established, how much they stand and be aggregated here, at the level of the State, and every adult, you know that in war, and all the hard times, the adults have always shared the last piece of bread with the children. If we have the lion's share of those funds, not so large, but which the State has, we will heal, we will solve this problem as soon as possible. And I would like to end up with one day, let's do something after today, something that will bring positive results to the healing of children, the most holy thing we have in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, let us consult. How long do we have to work? How long do we have to work? Each one of you is like, "Give me your word." Please tell me. Polishchuk Kirilo Ananiyovich. Please, next Loboda. Well, you can't do that! Each of you is breaking the rules!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u168	A minute? Excuse me?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u169	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u170	Thank you. Polisczek Kirilo, People's Government MP, Kyiv district, 98th constituency, Christian Democratic Party of Ukraine. Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, honourable deputies, members of the government, are invited. For the first time, the Supreme Council does not consider recreation and child recovery. Yet, despite appropriate decisions, regulations, and decisions, the state of affairs in this area continues to cause concern. The high level of disability, the deterioration of children's overall health -- all the social consequences of the economic crisis. However, when we look at official statistics, it is not surprising that the number of children’s health facilities in the country is steadily increasing. Yeah, that's not mocking, because the corresponding numbers are given. If in the summer of 1995, we had nearly 6,000 camps that had received more than 880,000 children, in the summer of 2002, there were more than 8 and a half thousand, and some 2 million children were rested and healed. But let's wait for the applause. The same statistic acknowledges that only 14 percent of children between the ages of 7 and 16 can reach active children’s facilities. Budget funds and other centralized sources of funding can provide rest and recovery for up to 4,000 children in my district. According to local governments, the need for child rest and recovery is not met by even 1 percent. And how can we explain this fact that in recent years, the State has not made a penny available for the rest and recovery of the students of the schools? Thanks to the participation of sponsors, voluntary contributions, I was able to help more than 100 children that year, about 70 of them resting in Crimea. I know and I'm sure that most of my fellow MPs do similar charitable work. One of the mistakes of the document with action, I think, is that it lacks more accurate information on the depth of the problem facing society and the financial solutions to it. So the first proposal, as it were, is to conduct a thorough inventory of the demand for child health care, to identify specific sources of funding. Next. Disgusting amounts of taxes and congregations must be abolished by providing substantial benefits in the payment of utilities, household supplies, and others, and by withdrawing VAT from all health - care routes. I know about Decree 835. Not to be taxed locally and by congregations of health facilities, to be able to recover the land benefits for children’s health facilities, as my colleagues have said. The other one. It draws attention to the fact that when the problem of recreation and child recovery is solved, a list of categories is first followed. Children with disabilities, orphans are all good. But you know, if parents are cultural workers, educated people, their children can also be added to this list, the peasants also agree fully. I think that the program of recreation and child recovery should take into account the preconceived, preventive work that is designed for the health of tomorrow’s generations and nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u171	Loboda Mikhailo Vasilovich, please. Next Ostash. Freedom, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u172	Michael Loboda, Communist faction. Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished colleagues. Today, the issue is being considered with great importance. It is enough to note that the health of the population, especially children and adolescents, has deteriorated dramatically in the last 10 years of the economic downturn in our country. The disease increased by 25 percent and the disability by 21 percent. Unfortunately, the key strategic directions for the development of the country’s health system do not only provide an opportunity to improve children’s health but also to preserve the gains achieved in Soviet times. The problem today is the treatment of children and adolescents with chronic illness and disability. And in its resolution, we need to make the most of the sanatoriums that we've talked about today. Ukraine is one of the most powerful resort states and is most provided with natural resort medical resources in the country. We have mineral waters and healing muds of almost all known balneological types, many of which are particularly valuable and unique. Ukraine has a network of sanatoriums, which has over three thousand health facilities for 500,000 beds. Today, 240 children’s sanatoriums provide special assistance to children for 50,000 beds. In addition, almost every adult sanatorium accepts parental care with children. Unfortunately, today the utilization rate of the existing sanatorium base does not exceed 30 percent. And that's why special anxiety is caused by the state of sanatorium care for children and adolescents. There is a gradual reduction in the number of specialized children’s sanatoriums that have a modern medical diagnostic base and qualified personnel. In the last five years, the number in Ukraine has dropped by 14 percent and in the Ministry of Health system by 23. So, for example, if there were 98 sanatoriums for 40,000 beds at the Eupatoria resort, the All-Ukrainian Children's Hospital, by 1990, there were only 65 beds left. The number of healthy children in sanitariums is declining year after year. The reason for this dissatisfaction in the resort area is, above all, the difficult economic situation in the country, the decline in the overall level. In order not to delay, I want to make suggestions and to some extent to support Valentina Ivanovna's offer. What do we need to do? First, at the national level, ensure coordination in the health and treatment of children and adolescents, using a health-diagnostic base of sanatoriums, regardless of the form of ownership. I mean, there should be a government order today at the expense of government and local budgets. Who should do this? I think this should be done by both the relevant committee and the Ministry of Health. The other one. Children who have received travel for free sanatorium treatment are unable to pay the cost of going to a treatment facility to provide assistance in railway transport to a treatment facility. The same benefits should be granted to children who have received sanatorium treatment. Yeah. Develop and confirm evidence for the treatment of children at each resort, taking into account the year-round functioning of sanatoriums of treatment, training, and special attention given to the use of natural resources. resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u173	Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan, stay. The word is given to Igor Ivanovich Ostas.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u174	Igor Ostash, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! In fact, we need to understand very well that the main problem is that the cost is only enough for the 10th of our children. Clearly, there is always temptation and abuse. So the first task that we're looking at is actually to organize the rest of the children so that we don't allow any abuse in this area. We understand very well that there are also many children who will not be able to be cured this summer, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today the mother's care for the children is, unfortunately, practically not paid for in some regions for 6-8 months. So I think it's also a problem of recovery. The next problem is regional. In fact, we see that many of our children are being healed in areas that have suffered, such as the Chernobyl disaster. That's what Mrs. Catherine was talking about today. In Kiev, in Rowen, in Zitomirsk, while there are beautiful health clinics in Carpathian, in Crimea. Let's say in my district there's a Morshin, there's a beautiful Rabbit, there's a Drogobich, there's a Carpathian, and I'd also like to emphasize that here we see a certain drag of a blanket because even in our decision it's only about the Eupatoria, it's about the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the Hersonian region, and why we don't involve our Carpathians, where children can heal for a year. And I would ask the authors to pay attention. The next problem is taxes. It is stated in the text that only institutions financed by the budget or the Social Insurance Fund are exempt from land taxes. And what do we do, say, to those children's sanitariums that exist in factories, even in private? So I'd like to take a look at this and change it, take down the classification of these institutions right over there. Next problem. In my district there is the Žuravena Anti-Tuberculosis Sanatorium, and there are many such facilities in Ukraine today. I would like to pay special attention to our government representatives to the TB treatment program. We have today, I want to tell you, people are working in terrible conditions, they are scapegoats, but the funding that is so low today that it does not really allow people, children to be treated. And the last. We have here in the draft decree a provision on the law. And unfortunately, I've come to realize that it was not until 2008, by the end of the year, that it was a program of rest and recovery for the state. So let us all sit together and do so this year so that the law on the healing and rest of children in Ukraine will appear, so that there will be no abuse, speculation, and that we know that our children are actually getting better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u175	Alexander Stoyan and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, I'm not going to talk about problems, this has been said to be a few specific suggestions. Well, first of all, really, our recommendations are right, but a few very important remarks. Dear friends! In fact, 70 percent of the businesses today care for health care, and we will not give up or refuse to do so, but it will be harder and harder to do so. Why? Because today the heads of state - owned enterprises or non - state enterprises, primarily state, trade unions, parents, are involved. And if we don't solve one problem, and we have to solve it, Catherine Seminevna, we have to write it down, the benefits for those businesses that want to cure children today. Why can't we just take it down to a certain percentage of the tax, or some other scheme to make the enterprise interested in curing children? Because there are no union children, there are no children who are famous, there are children of our country of Ukraine. Let's think about it. The other one. Do you know what terrible painting we faced that year? The state’s DAI escorts children and takes large amounts of money. I'm talking to the minister, I'm writing a letter, what are you doing? All right, we got the kids, we got them, they got the money. Our respected railway, dear friends, tripled the cost of keeping seats last year. So what's going on?Oh, my God! And here's a good offer from a colleague of Loboda: let's think about it, if we're transporting children, let's spend the cost, let's say not 100 percent, but 50 percent in rail transport. Let's write that down, let's write that in the DAI. Next, dear friends. Well, really, today, when you're looking at the sansation and you're looking at what they're going to give you, when even our minstat comes in, and then you come up with some sort of licensing for our camps. Our tourism, state tourism introduces a situation -- the organization of tourism in children's health clinics, and the payment of 500 dollars for opening this license. Who are we kidding? So I think that the honourable colleagues, the hearings today again and again have shown the great pain that we have after the healing of our children. If we say today that only 20 percent of the children are already being cured by different categories, if we add the tax that we have here in the Supreme Council Hall, and we've already calculated in the Federation of Trades, we need to add 150-200 dollars to the trip and it's going to cost, not Crime I'm talking about, but we're talking about other health clinics, 600-900 dollars. Consider: Of course, parents will pay part of the wage for the enterprises, more loyally, for the businesses, for the trades, but for the majority of the parents. I want to. It's over, thank you, Hennady Vasilovich, to say that I've received hundreds of telegrams from the professionals of ours who support these health centers. We're forced to close them because starting January 1st, we're already paying the land tax. I think the government leaders will shut down our businesses, our business leaders, because they can't pay. So who came up with this? Is that helping children? So let's be honest, look for ways to make the cost of a child's journey, and where we can, give it free, not find the money. They, the 25 million that could theoretically go to local budgets from these taxes, they won't give up because there's no one to pay them. Let us work together to solve this problem. Thank you for giving the word Hennaday Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u177	Sulkowski's microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u178	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u179	There's probably no card inserted. Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u180	Taking advantage of the opportunity that is now on the rostrum, in fact, there has just been a person speaking out who is actually very much involved in this problem, which is being discussed in the walls today, right now in Parliament. There is no question, but I would like to hear it from you as a national MP and all the Ukrainian people. A new government, the new prime minister, has arrived. Please tell me, do you personally feel cared for and in the program that is now government, that this question will be moved for the better or not? In a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u181	I answer with one word: on March 14, this year, there will be a meeting of a professional asset from all over Ukraine, more than 500 people, with the government, and we will ask this question. And we'll try to get specific answers. So far, there's only a program of government to heal children. Unfortunately, the filling is not yet in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u182	Okay. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u183	The program is not yet being implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u184	A closing word from the government. With the closing word from the government, will anyone express himself? Please, Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u185	Dear Gennady Andriyovich, honourable members of the people, I would like first of all to thank the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the scrupulous, thoughtful, demanding consideration of two of the most important issues regarding the prospects for the development of vocational and technical education in Ukraine and the organization of the rehabilitation of children in the summer of 2003. We're working closely on all the comments, the proposals made by the people's deputies. The only thing I'd like to say is maybe for a stenographer who's sorry that less than 15 or 20 people's deputies are, unfortunately, taking part in the final part of Government Day when it comes to the recovery of children. We've had a lot of disagreements about numbers, but there are numbers, let's say the state statistics, and they're undeniable. In 1995, we had 882 thousand children in the summer, 1 million 235 in the summer, and nearly 562 in the sanatorium. So I can't agree that there's no movement in this problem for the better. I would also like to say that in the Cabinet of Ministers project, for the first time, it's built in a way that makes the human development sector a priority, and because of the development of human resources, all the other problems have been addressed. Of course, you and I are absolutely, as they say, chained to one gallery called the budget, and saying that we can do something without your help, without the budget allocation, would be, well, let's say, at least easy. We will really try to implement both the observations and the directions that have been introduced today by the parliamentary committees and the national deputies in the speeches. As for the organizational arrangements for the development of the program, let's say the cost concentration and their optimization in management, believe me, the time before the summer recovery season is, and we will try to do so. I could answer a lot of numbers about the recovery of children over the age of 15 from the age of 15 to the age of 18. True, almost 110,000 were healed last year. There are some questions about the tax system in sanatorium and medical facilities. We're looking at the problem on the one hand, on the other hand, the total liberation of sanatoriums from land payments. It just destroys, say, the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. And so, of course, there is a need to take a closer look at which facilities are curative, which are healthy. But I would like to thank the People's Deputies, especially the People's Deputies of Nikolayenko, the National Deputy of Samoylik, for the great work that has been done in organizing the Government Day, and to say that in preparing the decision, we will make every effort to make it, indeed, full of the specifics and positions that we will be able to implement together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-11-m0.u186	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let me make some generalizations. When we consider the problem of a child’s recovery organization, we regrettably have to find out, although some disturbances are in this regard, but the situation remains unsatisfying. The fact that more than twice as many labor camps and rest camps have been reduced can be a source of concern. The issue of the transfer of child - care workers from businesses recognized as bankrupt to municipal property is also slowly resolved. At the same time, there is still no effective parliamentary monitoring of the implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers decree on the organizational and financial provision of rest and rehabilitation for children in Ukraine since April 14, 1997. So far, we haven't created a whole legislative framework for child's senior health with the definition of a government authority responsible for the recovery of children in the century, that's what we're talking about today. But we have to make it clear that without this, we're going to be in a firefight every time, going back to the exact same problem. It is also worth developing a national programme for the treatment of children with disabilities all year round, children with chronic diseases. We are well aware that full funding should be the central point in addressing these issues. To this end, it is planned to make a proposal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the right of children's sanatoriums and health facilities financed from the State Budget to be exempt from the payment of land taxes. Finally, I would like to stress once again the need for a consistent and systematic solution to today's issue, its adequate and legislative settlement and the provision of permanent State control over the implementation of the decisions taken. In today’s presentations, there have been many interesting and right thoughts that will be reflected in the appropriate decision of the Supreme Council, which we will take into account as a result of the discussion. Now I want to thank everyone for preparing today's government day. Good luck. This week we're working on committees, factions, and the next plenary session starts at 10 o'clock on March 18th. Happy birthday. Thank you, everybody.
