ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-25-m0.u1	The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Allow me to welcome everyone with Christ’s Christmas who attends this holiday and to wish for strength and health. This is confirmed. A draft decree on the calendar plan for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[B in m in s a l in]] . Please prepare for registration. Check the "Race" system. Please prepare for registration. About the calendar. Please register. [[11:32:00]] Registered -268 Yes, there are 268. I am voting on a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the calendar of the fifth session of the fourth call. Please vote. [[11:32:36]] For 259. Decision taken. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Israel on the settlement of claims arising from the air crash, which took place on 4 October 2001. Dear colleagues, the committee suggests that the decision be taken. In view of the situation, this general support may not need to be discussed. I'll put it to a vote. Attention, please. - on the approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Israel on the settlement of claims arising from the air crash.".. Dear colleagues, in view of this, may I have your attention, please? - in view of the electronic voting system being broken down, I ask you to proceed to the vote by hand, by raising your hand. I am voting on the approval of the Ukrainian Act on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Israel on the settlement of claims arising from the air crash that took place on 4 October 2001. Please vote. The faction leaders are requested to conduct a vote and provide information on the results of the vote. Please make the count of votes and provide information on the results of the vote. Let's do the math. In favour of the approval of the law on the ratification of an agreement between the Ukrainian government and the government, the State of Israel on the settlement of claims arising from the air crash that took place on October 4, 2001, the 272 national deputies voted. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to recalculate the day-to-day earnings of Ukrainian national deputies to families killed as a result of the road accident on December 17, 2003 on a highway near the city of Alushta is under review. This is document number 4542. I'm voting on this draft decree to list one day's earnings to miners who died from a road crash. Please vote. To the leaders of the MPs and factions, please make a count of the votes and provide information. A draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the recalculation of the daily earnings of Ukrainian national deputies to families killed as a result of the road accident on 17 December 2003 was passed by 276 national deputies on the highway near the city of Alesta. Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. To the heads of the MPs and factions, please gather in the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council.
