ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u1	I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies to the session room. Dear colleagues, please come in. We will continue our work. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[16:01:45.]] Registered -410 There were 410 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. By procedure, please, Valery Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm still going back to the question that was raised in the morning, which is that we now have such a full-blown transcript of the President's speech yesterday. And he says, "Dear fellow countrymen, tomorrow, which is today, I'm passing on to the Supreme Council a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine." These are the President's direct words, so it's not just some of those, as you say, for discussion. You must be referred to the President's own draft law. So I would very much like to take this seriously somehow, because it's serious things, it's the President who's making serious proposals for changes in the Constitution. I, let's say I didn't insist that we discuss this right now, but I think we should at least keep it informed. Because the President says it's a draft law, it's passed today, but no one's got it, and we don't have it on our hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u3	Dear colleagues! A circulation of 450 copies is made, now delivered here and distributed in the session room. In a letter signed by the President, he claims that this is for a preliminary discussion, and he will finally send it after two months after the public discussion is concluded. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u4	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear people of Ukraine! I want to protect President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine, because he's put up a project, and we're looking at 3207 of this project, date 06. 03 registered. True, it says here how many things there are that are different questions. I'd like to ask a procedural question like that, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Until today we started celebrating March 8th, and the President sent him yesterday, started celebrating, and I think it was such a serious pre-festive joke, because I read those proposals from him, it's all about another state, it's all about a federal state. He must have been in Moscow too much. So please, let's take an hour to discuss this project today and make changes now to our schedule or tomorrow, because then people will be gone, it'll be late. And now we're going to vote for the change, because then they're going to tell you that you can't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Once the bill has been passed out, there will be proposals, we will vote to see the national MPs for what they will vote for. Please, Andrew School, then Alexander Frost. He'll be considered in 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u6	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I already suggested that at 5:30 a.m., we vote in favour of a discussion. They'll give it away, I understand, but take the time to talk. That's what my proposal was about, and I'm asking you to put it to a vote, because that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u7	Okay. Please, Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u8	Dear colleagues! There's a purely procedural offer. Since we've invited judges to decide their future fate, let's take a look at this issue and then put a motion to vote at 5:30, for example, to discuss the matter. Not the document itself. General approaches of the Supreme Council to the implementation of those proposals made by the President. At 5:30. But the vote will take place after we decide the fate of the judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u9	Okay. I don't think there's gonna be any objection. Announcing the question of the election of judges. Reporter to the Committee on Legal Policy Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko Dear colleagues! It's a very important question. It's a human question. Please mobilize yourself so that you can make the right decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u10	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! There was a meeting of the Committee on Legal Policy where, with the participation of the Supreme Court, the judiciary, with the participation of you, the national deputies, those who were interested in the consideration of these candidates, we considered the nominations of judges who are elected on short notice to the local courts of Ukraine in different regions. I have to say that maybe more than ever we've discussed each candidate separately on a committee. We have asked you to make comments, suggestions, and we are grateful for the suggestions and comments that have come from the national deputies and that we may consider these suggestions in due time. Therefore, the committee yesterday, not everyone, voted to refer three candidates to the Supreme Council, but today you have a list on your hands and the committee is proposing a draft order to approve as an election order, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, of article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Supreme Council decides to elect judges on an indefinite basis: Autonomous Republic of Crimea Kuxov Volodymyr Volodymyrovich. The local Kerchen City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea - Short Love Mikhailnov; the local Krasnoggardsky District Court of Dnipropetrovska - Leona Alexandra Jakovič; local Regional Court of the Donetsk Region - Salarina Sergio Valentinović; The local Constantine City District Court of the Donetsk Region - Janjuk Yuri Bronislavovich; The local Slovenian City Court of the Donetsk Region, Profatila Petra Ivanovich; the local Anakyi district court of the Donetsk region - Boukreev Irina Anatoliyevna; the local Shakhtar City Court of the Donetsk Region - Dimitriev Pavel Alexiyovich; the local Kirov district court of Donetsk - Burlachenka Oleg Alexandrovich; the local Kirov district court of Makiyevka Donetské region - Převerzev Mikola Mikhajlovich; the local Kyiv District Court of Donetsk - Popreviča Viktor Mihajlovich; the local Proletar District Court of Donetsk - Heratchenka Igor Volodymirovich; the local Tachiv district court of Zakarpatsk district - Láška Sergija Mihajlović; The local Uzhgorod City Court of Zakarpatsk, Ferenz Andrija Mikolaiovich; The local Uzhgrad District Court of Zakarpatsk, Monich Oksana Laslovna; the local Yellow District Court of Zaporozhye - Fedchenko Irina Mikhaylovna; the local Communist District Court of Zaporozhye - Illichova Petra Mikolaiovich; The local Izum City Court of Kharkiv County - Natalia Victorianovna; the local Pechenia District Court of the Kharkiv Region - Yvashchenka Yuri Petrovich; the local Yellow District Court of Kharkiv Shiyanov Ludmila Alexandrovna; the local Grand-Burutsky District Court of Kharkiv district of Malukin Yuri Petrovich; the local Lozov City Court of the Kharkiv District of Dekhtyarchuk Marina Alexandrovna; the local Kharkiv District Court of the Kharkov district of Witchenko Svetlana Ivanovna; the local Provincial District Court of Kharkiv Rudnev Olenna Alexandrovna; the local Bilozer District Court of the district of Kovalenko Alla Volodymyrna; the local Holy District Court of Kiev, Chernenko Viru Anatoliyevna and The local Solomonian District Court of Kyiv Hubko Allu Alexandrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, the position of the committee has been proven to you. Do you have a procedure? Yavrovsky Vladimir Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u12	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine." Dear Vassil Vasilovich, the vote that must now be, well, for me personally is very responsible, because if the law, we can return to it after a while. We choose judges who will execute the fates of both our electorate and the Ukrainian people. I have a question. Before I vote, and I'm going to vote, although, frankly, I had to solve Kiwalov's problem at last, but I'm going to vote for these people. But tell me: How did the discussion go? If you can, at least for a moment, describe the situation as it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u13	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We used to practice this way, you remember, 100 judges, 20s, 30s to be invited to the committee. Is there a question? None. Is there a note? None. Vote for everyone. Now, as you can see, we're 30, well, a maximum of 30 or 40 people, you see them, they're not sitting there. You can ask questions, look the judge in the eye, give an answer. I'll tell you, yesterday's discussion was so, well, carefully that we couldn't look at the 9 bill issues planned, because at each of the judges' candidatures, we said, how many canceled decisions. Did you find out why it was such a bad indicator or why it was good? What are the reasons, what are the categories? Do they carry their tails separately? Are Court Practices Generalized? That is, we have considered the work of the judges in a substantive way. And I'm going to say that in addition to that, the Higher Qualifications Commission, the Judicial State Administration, have also taken care of this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u14	It's very convincing, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u16	Please, Vladimir Stretovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u17	Vladimir Stretović, Party of the Christian People's Union, Our Ukraine. Honourable Vasil Vasilovich, respected colleagues, has recently received many letters from the committee in connection with the company after the judges ’ approval of the facts of corruption among the judicial corps. It comes to the fact that these letters are complemented by individuals built by judges, their private cars, their luxury apartments, and we are working together with Ukraine’s security services. They're in the introduction. I have a question for you, Vasil Vasilovich, is this: Do you not consider that political corruption is at the same time a member of the Committee on Legal Policy and a member of the Supreme Court? And when are you going to take down this Gordiya knot so that you have the moral right to approve and submit judges for approval? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u18	Let's do it this way. Let us now resolve the issue of the decision not to find out your relationship in the presence of the invited ones. Please, Stepan Ilkovich Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u19	The cloud, the block of Julia Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland. Dear Vassil Vasilovich, you said you've been looking at every candidate so carefully. I have a question for Judge Poperchenko. This is the Kiev District Court of Donetsk, which sentenced Omelchenka for drugs on 27 June 2002, right? When the sentence did not come into force, and 08.07 that same year, the defendant was released. 20.01 In 2003, the Court of Appeal overturned his sentence and sentenced him to eight years. This is one judge. And the other one, Popperchenko. It's Popperchenko. And Profitila, of the Slovenian Court, is a fact, there are complaints that he forced peace to be concluded, forged documents at a time when the victim refused to accept or sign any peace documents. How do you view it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u20	Stepan Ilkovich, I'm making a proposal, because after Prophetilo and Popovic, not Popperchenko, but Popovic, we're asking questions to vote separately. I'll answer them then.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u21	Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u22	Vasil Vasilovich, here I also have a reference from the Tachivsky region to Sergey Mihajlovich. There was a criminal case committed against him and his lawyer. I'd like you to give information, or have you considered this question, did you have a conversation with Lasko Sergey Mikhailovich? Here I have a question, and so do my constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u23	I think we're going to ask that question and I'm going to explain it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. One minute, listen to me, Andrew. The decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to elect judges on an uninterrupted basis, excluding for a separate consideration Prof. Petr Ivanovich, Victor Mihajlovich, and Sergio Mihajlovich. I'm betting on the vote on the decision. Please vote. [[16:16:32]] For 342 Decision taken. Please, Peter Ivanovich, come to the microphone. Yes, what questions? Please, Vasil Vasilovich, your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u25	Peter Ivanovich, you have heard the question of the national MP of the Cloud. Explain on this point. We didn't have a statement on the committee, no complaints about that. We couldn't look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u26	Honorable deputies. I'm such a fact that I called the MP, let's say exactly what name is there that the defendant complained. That was never the case with me forcing someone to conclude a peace covenant.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u27	Stepan Ilkovich, do you have any arguments? Please, Cloud Stepan Ilkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u28	It's here from Neglect's complaint.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u29	Why isn't she on the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u30	I don't know why I'm not on the committee. I just got it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u31	This looks like a summation. Committee position. Let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, I, you know, respect Stepan Ilkovich, but I'm still asking you to respect the judges. They're also personalities, they're people who have a lot of responsibility. There was nothing on the committee when we considered this candidate. What's more, I'll tell you that we're sending all the materials in a month and there's something on the notice board about that. That's why I don't think we need any bills. We have to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u33	I am voting for the election of the judge on an untimely basis by Profotila Petr Ivanovich. But you had a word, but you didn't say anything. [[16:18:57]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Stepan Ilkovich, please, Cloud. Dear colleagues, I ask you to mobilize. It's the fate of the people. Please, Stepan Ilkovich Cloud, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u34	Cloud, Fatherland Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Dear Vassil Vasilovich, I would ask you not to accuse me of trying to settle accounts with someone. A complaint came to me. I told you about her. I'll give you this letter. Please check. Today, the assignment is to postpone, postpone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u35	As much as you gave me this morning, we already checked.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u36	So what? So today we can postpone. It is my responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u37	Yuri Yehanurov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u38	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I propose that the questions that were not discussed at the committee meetings should not be considered here. We are now setting a precedent for those who should judge, setting a precedent for irresponsible conduct. It's not enough, who's gonna get something. For what there is an institution that we have introduced committees, we have to work there. So let us not mistreat people.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u39	I'm putting to the vote the question of the judge being elected on an untimely basis by Profotila Petr Ivanovich. Please vote. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm asking the Bureau to stop talking. [[16:20:42]] For 251 Decision taken. Victor Mikhailovich, please. Your explanation for the comments, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u40	The honourable deputies, indeed, under my head, were given a decision, sentenced to 5 years' imprisonment, and the court applied the Amnesty Act to him, but then the appeal court overturned that sentence. One of my convictions was overturned last year. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, we've been looking at this candidacy, looking at its quality. I'll tell you that canceling one sentence when you're looking at hundreds of cases is no reason for a person not to go to court.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u42	Alexander Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u43	There was no claim on the committee yesterday at the time of this nomination. It was a remark on a particular case, but we understand perfectly that the courts are passing through the fates of different people, different circumstances. And the judge weighs both the rules of the law and the appropriateness of a person’s action with regard to the law. Even if it was a mistake, even though it was still a question of debate, because it was always a subjective decision, I think I should vote in favour of this man’s appointment as judge and remove the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u44	I'm voting for the election of Judge Viktor Mikhailovich. Please vote. [[16:22:39]] For 313 Decision taken. Baby Sergey Mikhailovich. It's about the light that was there.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u45	The question was that the criminal case seemed to be against you, and we did not know it, please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u46	Laško, Tachiv District Court Deputies! A criminal case was committed against a lawyer who took part in my decision. What was the point? I made a decision regarding the party’s withdrawal, compensation for the harm done to the person who had died. But there was the plaintiff, the prosecutor's representative, and I didn't know that the person had died, but I was the prosecutor's representative with the proper confidence, approved by the notary office. And after it was explained, the person who performed the notary acts was called to account. And no one questioned me as a suspect. I don't know what was going on with me, and there's no case against me. And I know that against a lawyer, too, because the plaintiff himself did it all. And it turns out that the defendant himself died, and the plaintiff's representative was solving his questions in the interests of the woman where the defendant died before. And I was questioned as a witness and everything. That was last year.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, I'd like to give you another explanation for this. Even if a criminal case is brought against a judge, which is very often done by the prosecutor’s office today, if the judge takes an independent position, such facts are, it is not an obstacle to recommending him to be elected on an untimely basis. The presumption of innocence, the Constitution. So if for the first time he was recommended, that's the reason, but today it's simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u48	I'm voting for the election of Sergey Mikhailovich's judge on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[16:24:51]] For 244 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! Let us welcome the judges who have just been elected on an untimely basis and wish to be successful in carrying out their assignment. And women judges, of course, since March 8th. And we also thank the head of the Supreme Court who is here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u49	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'll give Stretovich an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u50	One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u51	I'll give Volodymyr Stretovich, my colleague, an answer because he's a major anti-corruption fighter. And if he saw in my person a major corrupter, I think he's wrong. You may know that there is a statement in a court of law. I don't think that's going to happen because I'm going to write it myself. And come on, you can come to me for a cup of coffee or something, find out what's going on. I'd never do that in a Christian way.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u52	Yes, procedure, please. Huh? Please, I'm telling you. What are you doing? Nigger Volodymyr. What are you dissatisfied with, Vladimir Kirilovich? I'm asking for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u53	Honorable colleagues and honorable judges! I'm already following them -- they're coming out of the hall -- and I want to say that we've introduced a temporary election of judges in order for the judges to have an independent position. But not for the judges to be independent of the law. I want the judges to be dependent on the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There was an offer. May I have your attention, please? We don't have much left to do - an hour and a half. There was a proposal by Alexander Alexander Moroz and a number of other deputies to take half an hour to discuss the procedure and order of our further political reform. I'm putting this motion to a vote to take half an hour to discuss this issue in such a performance. [[16:27:28]] For 233 Decision taken. It's announced before the review -- "yes" -- 233, the decision was taken -- the draft law. Dear colleagues! But I ask one thing, please, let's work now so that we can vote on the decisions that we need to vote on. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the Military Order Service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. We discussed this bill. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich Domanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u55	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! On March 7, 2002, the Law on the Military Order of the Armed Forces of Ukraine was passed. It has been in operation for over a year, but for it to become fully operational, amendments and additions to three codes and seven laws are required. All these amendments are in agreement with all ministries. All the committees of the Supreme Council that it was. The five committees involved in this law reviewed their meeting and recommended that the Supreme Council adopt this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u56	I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Military Order in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u57	Please be supportive. Vote please! [[16:29:06]] For 306 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, here is an offer from the committee to accept it as a whole because there are no objections to this document. Well, there's a denial, well, what can I do. Well, I can't do anything. Let's vote it out on Sunday. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges on the conditions for the exercise of justice is being announced for consideration. Yesterday we discussed this law. Vasil Vasilovich, please. Onopenko. You remember what this was all about. Please, Vasil Vasilovich. What the committee proposes and we vote. No, no, about the status of judges. As a basis, propose your law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u58	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! You are invited to consider four draft amendments to the Law on the Status of Judges. You know what the situation today is when there's no possibility of writing a message, of transporting a convoy, when people are suffering, in fact. There are four bills, so far about 3: Michael Melniczuk's fine bill, there's a bill that I've introduced, Sirenk, Oneschuk and Moses, and there's a separate bill. The committee made a decision to take as a basis the bill passed by Onopenk, Sirenk, Moses and Onichuk, and the best proposals made by Melniczuk were put into the bill and sent for redrafting, that is.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u59	Everything? No, it's not written as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u60	Based on 12, there, 41?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u61	No, 2491.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u62	Yeah. 2491.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to take the basis for the 2491 project, but I'm putting the bill to the vote. The first to vote is draft number 2232 of the draft Act on Amendments, Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges. This is a one-man project by the National Deputy Onopenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u64	But he's absorbed in it. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you can accept this 91st, and everyone else will be accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u65	I'll put it to a vote. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u66	Well, hold on, and we'll count them all together. [[16:32:03]] For-41
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u67	The decision is not taken. I'm putting a bill under number 2232-1. It's the People's Deputy Melniczuk's Project. Change the vote. Melniczuk, please. National MP Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u68	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, as far as there is agreement with the committee, with the committee head, with Vasil Vasilovich, that in the second reading we should combine all the positive points that are in my bill, I ask him not to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u69	Okay. I'm voting on a project that the committee proposes to take as a basis. This is a document numbering 2,491 National Deputies of Onopenka, Anishuk, Moses, Sirenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u70	I'd like your support, Your Honor. [[16:33:20]] For-200
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u71	The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, let's probably vote on sending these three bills for re-reading?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u72	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, please allow the trailer. You all complain about the shortcomings of the judicial system, we understand that. On March 13, there will be committee hearings on the state of judicial and legal reform. We'd like to see on March 13, at least on the first reading there's an option about the status of the court, the change to the status law, the court system. Well, hold on. Don't make any decisions, well, you support the court system. Will one branch of authority put sticks in another’s wheels?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u73	Andrew School, please. We can vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u74	I think we should do this: the one who won most of the votes, the last bill, got 200 votes, sent for re-reading, taken into account all those proposals that were in the previous discussion that were in the two previous laws and passed a quality full law already at the next quarter. Here, I think judicial reform is very necessary, and judicial laws need to be carefully, qualitatively put into Parliament. So I propose, there will be one law, and we'll do everything right.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the offer is clear. Let's get the law that got the most votes, this is project number 2491, and we're going to re-read it. I'll put it to a vote, please. [[16:35:01]] For 257 Decision taken. A draft law amending the Ukrainian law on the status of judges on immunity is being announced for consideration. This is the author of this bill, Sergey Ivanov. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, I reported to the Supreme Council yesterday on the draft of Sergio Ivanova's bill, and said that it could not be supported, because it was a violation of the interests of the judges, the removal of them, in fact, out of touch. This is about making changes to the Law on the Status of Judges, and you can search the judge, you can search the transport. There are many things you can do. I am no longer saying that this bill is in general contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, where there are clear guarantees of judges. Therefore, he cannot be supported in any way. The committee's proposing a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u77	Yes, please, Sergey Ivanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, we discussed it yesterday. Unfortunately, not many people were in the hall. It's not about these searches. It's not about the things you're talking about today at the rostrum. It is only to allow law enforcement authorities to record at the time of the commission of the crime and to release the judge without delay.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u79	Mr. Sergei, I explained yesterday to everyone that there are no obstacles in the Criminal Procedure Code today to any kind of procedural action. You know, we've been looking at a couple of calls from the Attorney General at the past, and we've agreed when the trial was over. So these are other things.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges under number 1271. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We're all going in the right direction. Don't beat it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u81	The committee's asking for it. [[16:37:39]] For-42
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u82	Project rejected. I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2003. From the Committee, please, the Budget Committee, Petr Aleksyovich, is there? We discussed it literally in very detail yesterday, my fellow believers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, the committee has reviewed this bill and decided that many of the things in the bill are positive. First of all, we recommend that when drafting an agreed bill, account be taken of the understatement of the income base on which the committee insisted during the budgetary process. Indeed, some additional resource is, it is, it is, and we must direct it to raise, implement the Law on the Increase of Minimum Wage. At the same time, the bill of these authors contains a wide range of substantive disagreements or positions that are not acceptable to the committee. In particular, this is a redistribution of the funds of special congregations that would be directed under the Budget Act to the Pension Fund to raise the minimum wage, which would make it impossible for pension reform to take place this year. There's some disagreement in particular areas, when we don't provide resources, the sectors won't be able to execute and raise this minimum wage. There are some resource problems because the bill states that, for example, a citizen's income tax will enable the minimum wage law to be implemented for local budgets and there is no resource to decide on. The committee's decision is as follows: the committee does not support the bill, but recommends taking into account the work that is done by the authors in the drafting of the harmonized bill with the participation of the authors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u84	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the authors of the Timoshenko Bill, Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u85	Julia Timoshenko. Dear friends, I would like to remind all of us, all of the people's deputies, that on December 26, we passed a law with you, along with an almost constitutional majority, on setting the minimum wage: from January 1, 2003 to December 185 and from July 1, 2002 to December 1, 2002. Almost everyone was voted out without the faction being excluded. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Committee on Budgets, and Peter Poroshenko, who was assigned to lead the working group, has done nothing to give birth to the bill. The government has today acknowledged the concept that it is not necessary to raise the minimum wage and secure it in the budget this year. If we ignore the law, there are no questions, if we don't ignore it, please listen to the concept. In order to raise the minimum wage, Minfin needs 7 billion 288 million dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u86	Julia Volodymyrna, we repeat, we've all heard it, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u87	Do I have time?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u88	No, the thing is, we're voting. One minute, if you have a line. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u89	I've got three minutes. Don't interrupt. I beg of you, my dear friends. According to the Ministry of Finance, the additional income for the increase in wages is 2 billion 434 million. In addition, you and I had the funds that were counted from the State Budget into the Pension Fund. But the pension fund, again, according to Minfin, is increasing by 3 billion 700 million. So today the State Budget grants for the Pension Fund are not going to be necessary, they're going to be better targeted at minimum wage, they're going to increase. And all the reserves set out in this bill fully maintain the budget balance and do not violate any expense article. I want to pay attention to the majority. No matter how many ministries there are, everything stays the way it is in the budget today. But at the expense of the extra income and the redistribution between the general fund and the special fund, we can raise with you today 50 percent of the wages of all teachers, doctors, scientists, judges working in district, city and district courts. I ask you, please, if we pass the Minimum Wages Act, we have no right to stay away from this process. Today we can adopt the law in the first reading. Next, the comments of the Dusty and the Budget Committee are further elaborated. Acceptance in the first reading gives a start to this work at all. Three factions were introduced: Communists, socialists, and the faction that I am leading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u90	I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2003. [[16:43:44]] For-146 The decision is not taken. Julia Volodymyrna, perhaps for the first time again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u91	I ask the factions to announce which factions voted against. "Our Ukraine" is 19 votes, communists in full, "Regions of Ukraine" is 2, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, "Trud Ukraine" is 0, SDPU is 8 votes. By the way, when social issues are supported; Democratic Initiatives - 15, Socialist Party - in full, European Choice - 1 vote, People - 0, Timoshenko Block - in full, Agrarian Party - 1 vote, NDP - 0, National Choice - 0, non-fractional - 5. I thank "our Ukraine" for not supporting this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u92	Thank you. Let's move on to ratification. Please, Assadchev. It's a motive. The decision has already been made. For what reasons?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u93	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a question of motive. But let's not politicize the budget process. The budget is clear and clear. If Julia Volodymyrna has submitted an unbalanced budget project, it should simply be said that this is a non-professionally prepared project that is rejected by the Supreme Council. And the budget committee has worked and will work to solve the problem of minimum wage. And you don't have to make political dividends.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u94	A draft law on the ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or of the European Charter of Regional Languages is being announced for consideration. A minority. I'm asking you not to turn on the microphone, not to create any illusions. A replica? Out of the way. Go and I'll give you a line. Please. Oh, that's a line. Please, the microphone. Don't put it on the political plane, dear fellows! We're still working on the replica. All of it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u95	Now I want to talk to those who listen to just the radio. And I want to tell the electorates of all our political forces that, Mr. Assadchev, I was the head of the budget committee, and I will never go out with a non-professional document. And you don't have to cover up absolute political incompetence and inability to make your own decisions, cover up completely with arguments that don't deserve any attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u96	Thank you. All right, calm down. All right. All right, calm down. Please sit down, Julia Volodymyrna. All of it. Assadchev, please. Please calm down, everyone! We're in a normal state mode.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u97	Dear friends, I won't call anyone's name, I just want everyone to calm down and understand that the situation is very difficult. We're not rejecting anything. We said yesterday that the bill, which is now being passed, is very useful and we're trying to use it, but at least some things are unbalanced, especially with the road fund, you have to admit honestly, once, according to local budgets, this is the second moment. So we just couldn't support him from a professional point of view, and the bill will be worked out and we're ready to work with everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u98	Basil Nadrag. Dear colleagues! One will determine, one will. Calm down! Just don't put your hands up. Calm down! Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u99	Dear colleagues! I fully agree with all those who say that the minimum wage should be raised. But sadly, today we are given a precedent that, speaking of what we will raise up, we take from others. In this case, the question is that we take from the pensioners and try to provide for others. I would very much ask, distinguished colleagues, when we talk about what someone needs to do a little better, we should not forget that we retire today try to make them not just a little worse, but, in principle, a little worse. And based on that logic, I address everyone without exception, please don't make the old people hostage of their own desires, even if they're so wonderful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u100	It wasn't about you, it wasn't about you, it wasn't about your last name. Please don't turn on the microphone. All of it! Yuri Carmazin, please. Julia Volodymyrna, don't abuse, don't abuse! Don't mind. They didn't call you names. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u101	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! Now, there has been a misinterpretation of the actions of our faction of our Ukraine, and I would like to make it clear. We thanked both Julius Volodymyrna and Peter Simonek and others who participated in the drafting of the bill. What's more, the faction is mostly working today on another document that will now be submitted in exchange, and this question is agreed with Julia Volodymyrna, I think. And that's why I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u102	Thank you. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u103	specifically consider this issue and.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u104	Anatoly Matvienko. Well, let's not show everyone how we love the Ukrainian people, let's work! I say again, sit down! What are you, a messenger? You're a national MP, not a national deputy. Please take your seats!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u105	Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address you. Well, obviously you can't speculate on just blocking because you want to. Everyone supports what is right in this law and needs to be adopted. I realize that there are still outstanding problems. No one takes a penny from the pension fund or adds. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the regions are groaning, overturned by the Supreme Council with proposals for money. It's a project that fits. I say: let's vote for the re-reading, and that's the solution. We work together with those who oppose, but we will not take down really important and extremely interesting suggestions when solving this problem. Put to the vote, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u106	Budget committee proposal, please. Dear fellow workers who raise their hand were to come and discuss it yesterday. There was an opportunity to discuss enough. Now you're opening a new page for yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u107	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Budgets has made a clear and informed decision, which is a positive decision in this bill, and now the Committee on Budgets has worked out, prepared, and will register a bill for the next week, which provides for the implementation of the law on minimum wage in full. There's only one difference -- it's going to be calculated and it's going to be real! And we invite all the drafters of the bill, including the speakers, to work together on this bill. I don't understand what the discussion is about right now. I think we're just trying to work on the radio right now instead of working on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u108	Timoshenko's replica, that's it! I'm telling you, that's it! All of it! Time's up, time's up. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u109	First of all, I'd like to refute the statements made by some deputies about the fact that pensioners are taking money away. This law adds 2 billion. And a few million to the Pension Fund. The law is fully balanced and calculated. And if Dustenko wasn't able to give a bill in two months, we need to pay attention to that. Please put the first reading back on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u110	I can't re-read it, there's a denial. If there was no objection, I put it. A draft law on the ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minorities is being discussed. Please, Roman Zvarich. Enough with the replica. Well, Peter Alexiovich, be. The day before March 8th. We voted, we can't. Well, let's go back, now we're realizing your right. We return now, we realize your right. Come on! Honorable colleagues, what is the answer to reality or not? To relieve the political tension, I put the vote to a vote. Calm down! I am voting for the re-reading of the draft law amending the Ukraine Act "On the State Budget for Ukraine 2003". Please determine by vote. [[16:52:32]] For-136 The decision is not taken. Please, Roman Zvarich. The factions, please. Your offer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u111	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I am authorized by the Committee on European Integration to comment on the committee's position on this issue. I would ask you to take an understanding view of the committee's position, taking into account the Committee's efforts to depoliticize the matter. So I'm calling the committee's position. With regard to the ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Smalltongues, Bill No. 0056 of 6 March 2003, the Committee on European Integration considered this issue at its meeting on 5 March 2003, as evidenced by the Protocol No. 24, and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a postponement of the decision on the proposed draft in view of the fact that the text of the bill was worked out by an interlocutor working group, established at the initiative of the President of Ukraine, is under consideration by the President of Ukraine. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, has the committee's proposal been understood? I propose that we postpone the consideration of the paper when the positions are agreed upon. A draft law on the ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and the Federal Republic of Brazil on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters is under consideration. Vote what? There's an offer, we're putting it down. What do you want me to vote on? Vote what? It's a committee of law. Come on up and tell me. Please, Vasil Vasilovich. Short Only
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, it's about ratifying the aid agreement, legal aid in criminal matters. That is, Ukrainian citizens will defend Brazil’s rights just as Brazilian citizens do. Similarly, citizens of Brazil in Ukraine will be protected in the same way as Ukrainians. This is about some criminal investigation, detention, confiscation of property, and so forth. We've ratified dozens of such treaties, so there's a proposal to support the committee now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u114	I am voting on the ratification of the treaty between Ukraine and the Federal Republic of Brazil on mutual assistance in criminal matters. I ask you to vote. [[16:55:48]] For 372 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we are now in voting mode. A draft law on the ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Government of Mongolia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income and capital taxes is under consideration. The committee proposes to ratify. Is there no objection? I'll bet you a vote on the ratification of this agreement under number 0065, please vote. [[16:56:30.]] For 379 Decision taken. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of India on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters is under consideration. The committee's offering to support it. I am voting on the ratification of the treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of India on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. Please vote. [[16:57:04]] For 382 Decision taken. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of India on the Extradition of Offenders is under consideration. The committee proposes to ratify. I am voting on the ratification of the treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of India on the extradition of offenders. Please vote. [[16:57:40]] For 371 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Law on Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 159 on Occupational Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The committee proposes to ratify. Please vote. [[16:58:12]] For 367 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Georgia on Mutual Protection of Secret Information. The committee's proposal is positive, it's supportive. Please vote. [[16:58:44]] For 376 Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you a question right now, to consider what we discussed on the Conciliation Council, and to speak with the Minister of Justice. It is the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to Ukraine’s 2003 State Budget Act on the Organization’s Cost Order and Implementation. On the Conciliation Board, we supported this issue, it's about transfer, and then we move on. Out of procedure, please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u115	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. On the other hand, I am asking that we be guilty before the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe regarding the adoption of these or other legislative acts. And above all, it also applies to the European social charter. It is a framework document if we are to say that the standards of living in Ukraine should be the same as in Europe and throughout the world developed and civilized. I insist, the government deliberately blocks this, the Supreme Council Committee does not raise this issue. And so the rest of the legislative acts that we adopt do not meet the requirements of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, give us an assignment to review the European Social Charter as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u116	I ask the secretariat to study the matter, the circumstances of the matter, and to provide all the information so that we can discuss it at the Conciliation Council next. I put to the vote, honourable colleagues, on the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukraine State Budget Act 2003 on the organization’s spending order and on implementing measures. Please be supportive. [[17:01:19]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! I ask the Minister of Justice to explain the importance of this matter, why we do not vote. Please, Minister of Justice. I'm asking for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u117	Dear National Deputies! A problem that is now put to the vote. I hope I know most of you, at least, because I get your requests or questions every day about not executing court decisions. The point is that the Enforcement Law provided for the sole source of funding for the costs associated with the execution of a judicial decision — the Executive Fund, which is charged with the contributions of half of the executive congregation. When voting in favour of the draft State Budget Act, funds are provided for the execution of court decisions and are allocated to the general part of the State Budget in the position of "government and administration in the field of justice". From this point of view, we can't take the money, so for today we have 1 million 717 thousand already on the day of stopped enforcement decisions due to the fact that we can't finance them because we don't have a legal source of funding. Costs are predicted, but we can't use them. And it's about moving this part, this sum from one position, which provides for their expenditure on administration in the field of justice, into a special fund for the execution of court decisions. That's the problem. I ask you to support the inclusion and adoption of this draft law, because otherwise we will find ourselves in a situation where the whole process of enforcement of decisions will stop altogether.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u118	Dear colleagues! It is a matter of switching from one article to another. It's mechanical. I'm voting for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[17:03:34]] For 213 Yeah, let's move on. For -213, the decision is not made. Let's go to rereading. By factions, please explain. One thing I can't understand is that you don't realize the problem in our society? I'm going back to the faction of Ukraine. It's too late, dear fellows. Let's move on. The draft Mortgage Act is submitted for consideration. [[re-read]] Please, Saint Dmitry Volodymyrovich. Briefly make suggestions that take into account the comments that have been made. Bet in one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u119	Dear colleagues! A little while ago we were looking at this bill at the Supreme Council meeting, so I'm not going to take up much of your time. The draft Mortgage Act was finalized in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree we adopted on 06.02 this year. The completed project takes into account the observations made by the Ukrainian National Deputies and takes into account most of the comments made by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. From the draft law on the proposals of the National Deputies, which was made in the session hall of Katherina Timofievna Vaszczuk, from the committee of Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko, Vasil Petrovich Tsuko called off the section on the mortgage on agricultural land. There are also some restrictions on the mortgage of state and municipal property offered by counterpart Teryochin. The Transitional registration positions are also regulated. real estate. I would like to point out that we have received a letter from the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine that points out the possibility of adopting this bill in the first reading and that we have made a number of comments that we will take into account in the second reading. I will also point out that we have not received any letters or comments from the Supreme Council Committees on the bill. Since the legislative settlement of the mortgage is one of the most urgent tasks in the development of the financial sector in Ukraine, I would like to support the proposal for the adoption of Ukraine's draft mortgage law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u120	Is the committee's position clear? I'm voting on the adoption of the draft adoption bill of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. About the mortgage. Let's vote. [[17:06:33]] For 247 Copy that. Thank you. Yukhnov Igor Rafailovich. With a motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u121	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Yukhnowsky, "Our Ukraine." I voted for us to review this mortgage law on the first reading, but I'll say it again. We have no right to adopt a variety of laws that will touch the earth's market until we organize and legislatively establish a public organization that will monitor the land market inside the State and which will have priority over the redemption of land until the land falls into the hands of a normal host. I wanted to take another look.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The government. I beg your attention, fellow officers. Please, calm down. We have 20 minutes left, then we move on to the next question. The government requests that the day project 3138 be put into order and that the decision be taken otherwise blocked. Get your hands off me, please! I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda of this project. Valerius Assadchev, you'll agree with him there. Please vote. [[17:08:13]] For 248 Copy that. Please, Peter Alexiovich on the rostrum. It's dusty. Where's the committee head? With the Turkish procedure, please. Dusty, on the rostrum, please. Turn on the Turkinov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u123	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'm convinced that our citizens, who get paid for which they can't live, are in no less good conditions than the employees of the Ministry of Justice, for which we will now adopt the law. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we propose to adopt in the first reading a common law that would take into account, and this is the first one to raise wages for our citizens, and then we can take into account the proposition of the Minius. But to say that the workers of the Minius are in worse conditions than the citizens who are beyond poverty is just cynicism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u124	Valery Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u125	Dear friends! The Budget Committee, when it considered the budget, took a strategic course to remove all feeds and nurseries from government authorities, to maximize the cancellation of all special funds. The public authority has to be financed by a budget, a general fund, and I don't know why the executive service isn't being funded because the income part is changing today. And Minust says, no, give me a wet nurse so I can feed around her, and then I don't need the budget anymore, so we're against that. And let's take a clear strategic position: the commercialization of public authorities! Everyone has to be funded from the budget. Thank you. So I ask you not to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u126	Thank you. Please, Petr Alekseiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is both Valery Mikhailovich and Alexander Valentinovich's position on the inability to commercialize the public authorities. Based on the concept of a substantial restriction on the use of a special budget fund, in the adoption of the State Budget Act 2003, we allowed a legal coalition when on the one hand we withdrew the financing of a special fund, based on ideologies that advocated the budget committee as a source of funding for a special fund to perform the service. On the other hand, we have not suspended the operation of separate legislative acts which prohibits funding from the Chief Budget Manager of the general budget of the executive service. Using this coalition of existing legislation, the executive service is now without funding, because general fund funding by the interpretation of the government is a purposeless use of budgetary resources. That's why we tried to bring this bill into line with the legislation and to secure this funding. Therefore, we insist on preserving the ideology that the special fund in Minsk, or guaranteed in 2004, should be eliminated and financed only from the general fund. But today we have to avoid a coalition of existing legislation and unlock the funding of the executive service. This is what the authors came up with when they proposed the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u128	Thank you. Please, Minister of Justice. Don't walk away, Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say, first of all, that this is not about the employees of the Ministry of Justice, it's about the funds that are allocated for the execution of a court decision, for the process that is needed by the citizens of Ukraine and the legal persons. And it's not about any special fund from the Ministry of Justice. This is the State Fund for Executive Management, which is an integral part of the State Budget that accounts for the Treasury. And you may recall that no one else, as a minister of justice, as a deputy, has passed a bill to ensure that we don't have any extra-budgetary accounts. And when it comes to today, the proposal to transfer the funds already provided for in the State Budget, without changing the balance, without adding any extras, to another article in accordance with valid laws, I can agree that we should, we can change the ideology of the execution of court decisions, not by the debtors who have lost, but by the State's account, then it should be provided for in the law on the enforcement of court decisions, and then the budget provides that it is financed by the State Budget, not by the state budget, not by the way now, we have not at all for two months to execute a court decision. It's not for the employees of the Miniature problem, it's a problem for the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u130	Thank you. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukraine Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2003. This is document number 3138. Please vote. [[17:13:50]] For 270. The committee's proposal goes on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u131	Well, we're ready to support, because now, in fact, two months of executive services are unfunded, we can accept it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u132	I'm voting on the adoption of the entire draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2003 as a law. Please vote. [[17:14:29]] For 295 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft law announced for the consideration of telecommunications is repeated. Please, Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u133	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm motivated. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we sent a special commission twice. Once or twice you as Head of the Supreme Council to the Ministry of Justice asked them a question, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, to finally reflect on what balance value he had realized the state property, how this structure works today, how much money went into Specusto's account, how much it went directly into the budget. This figure is not available to you, either as Head of the Supreme Council or at the request of our special commission. So once again, I want you to give a protocol order for the Ministry of Justice to come in anyway and account for the balance sheet value of government property. Or we're starting to say that privatization is illegal. Here's your specialty job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u134	Thank you. I ask you to prepare an appropriate assignment by clearly defining the dates when information should be provided to inform all Ukrainian national deputies. Yes, please, Valery Pavlovich, draft of the Telecommunications Act. Rereading the first reading. Very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u135	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! To implement the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of December 26, last year, the Supreme Council's Preparatory Committee has been finalized and submitted to your review of the draft Law on Telecommunications in a reopened first reading. Let me once again draw your attention to the urgency of adopting this law, as the lack of a legal basis prevents the development of the telecommunications market in Ukraine. At the same time, the regulations laid down in the bill correspond to better European and global examples of modern communications technologies. This will greatly accelerate the development of the telecommunications sector in Ukraine. Please take into account the fact that in the process of preparing the bill for re-reading without changing. principles, such as the delimitation of government functions and regulation, the creation of open and non-discriminatory conditions for the communication market, the strengthening of consumer rights. We took into account most of the comments and suggestions made during the discussion. For example, the bill removes provisions that directly affect the income and expenditure of part of the State budget and which are most likely to involve the re-reading of the draft Law, including those relating to tax benefits, on the allocation to operators of funds from the Ukrainian State Budget for the creation of a mobilisation reserve. inclusion, a requirement for State funding for special communications objects that does not alter the existing order, according to which budget funding for special objects of 1.7 million dollars is foreseen for the full year. In addition, in line with current legislation, the rules provided for in the payment section for the use of radio frequency resources and the directions for the containment of these funds are set out. As a result of the drafting of the bill, we, on the one hand, reinforce consumer rights requirements and, on the other hand, make it impossible to discriminate against public officials and monopolies in relation to other operators. The law excludes the right of the regulator to receive telecommunications, confidential information from operators. With regard to the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, it is noted that there are only individual fragments of the bill. What I'm saying is that yesterday we spent with UMC liaison operators and Nordelek supporting the review of this draft law. The main market operators, Internet operators, support the draft law in the first reading. And after that, we will make sure that we do the right thing and harmonize the law for the second reading. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u136	The offer is understood. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, can it be voted on or not? Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u137	Dear Volodymyr Mihailovich, Yuri Karmazin, Our Ukraine, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity. I, this is rereading the first reading, I'm asking you to include the regulation of what I was given for the speech, three minutes, I signed up a long time ago. A number of laws conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. It's another affair, I call you things my names. I call those broken articles, the 85th Constitution, 113th, 116th. The creation of the so - called National Communications Commission, which determines that the Cabinet of Ministers is directing and coordinating the work of the Ukrainian executive authorities, is not possible in view of the requirements of an article of the Constitution. There can be no real disturbance in the appointment of members of the National Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, since the 85th article of the Constitution assigns the appointment, election or dismissal in cases where the Constitution provides. Next. The factor that should be affected and the requirement for agreement by the regulator of all, I stress, the draft regulatory acts with this telecommunication board, giving this council substantial weights to influence the activities of the regulator, the project does not provide for any responsibility for the decisions it approves. Increasing expenditures from the State Budget will result in the inclusion of the State Telecommunications Inspectorate and the radio frequency in the regulatory body as a structural unit. I would like to point out that this is a violation of our laws. It does not solve the problem of providing socially vulnerable people with access to the telecommunications services offered in the project with a mechanism for providing such services. There'll never be anything in the country. Neither UMC nor Kyivstar will solve this, and you understand that. The definition of universal telecommunications services in the project does not provide that they are accessible to users regardless of their location. So, I believe, honourable national MPs, that the gross violation of the requirements of Article 31 of the Constitution is article 8 and the 28th of the draft, which allows the removal of information, I stress, from the telecommunications networks and the monitoring of the information security of these networks on the basis of legal regulations. That is, the law of lawlessness. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we have a statement from the operators, here their husband is twenty signed, which is definitely against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u138	Mikhail Pavlovsky, please. Dear colleagues! We need to get four more papers in 10 minutes. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u139	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! When the law was sent back for rereading, we gave the faction a few dozen suggestions that were designed to organize, stimulate the production of telecommunications. And I want to point out that the committee has taken our proposals into account, and so I think that on the first reading, this bill can be adopted. The faction is asking for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u140	Yuri Lucenko, please. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u141	Dear National Deputies! The price of this law is a normal European civilised business in the field of telecommunications or a continuation of that monopolistic robbery that has led to a complete decline in the industry. You were given tables this morning. As you can see, Ukraine is everywhere in the last place: on the Internet, on the phone, on mobile phones. databases. We are catastrophically losing billions because today the team that occupied this sector is practically robbing it. Today, by voting, you can either open the way to a civilized relationship in the field of communication, or you can look for reasons why you should delay the question as well. be a few more years.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u142	Thank you. Andrew School, please. And we're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u143	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Deputies! Thus, according to the comments of the Committee on Budget Questions, part 3 of article 27, article 34, part 8 of article 58, and article 72, which did not correspond to Ukraine’s budgetary and tax legislation, was removed from the bill. And the rest of the articles have been finalized. Here I think there's a problem with this bill, but on the first reading, I emphasize, first reading it allows you to go through it, and then in the second reading, you can go over it and then you can go over it and you can go over it and then you can go over it and you can go over it and you can go over it and you can go over it and you can go over it and you can go over it and you can go over it and you can go over it and you can go over it and you can go over it and you can go over it. Thank you. And I propose to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u144	Committee, please. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u145	Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to say right now that this bill has already been politically colored. I don't want to talk about it. It is in line with existing legislation. All the comments we considered last time on the first reading were taken into account by the national deputies. Then I took a tour of the round table. And virtually all operators working in the telecommunications market support it. Individuals do not support themselves. So I propose to vote in favour of this bill. I gave my word that a special council would be formed and that all those working in the telecommunications market would be further developed and placed on second reading. And there'll be law, we'll take it and we'll work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u146	I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Telecommunications Act. Please vote. [[17:25:43]] For 197 The decision is not taken. I'm announcing a draft Law on Agricultural Advisory Activities. Two letters literally. Alexander Frost, please. One minute, Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u147	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Since this problem still exists and will have to be determined, it would have to be put to the vote again. to be considered in the first reading. Let's vote on this question, because there is one problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u148	Dear colleagues, I am proposing to Alexander Moroz to return to the first reading of the Telecommunications Act. [[17:26:42]] For 234 Decision taken. Please, Ivan Fedorovich. I'm asking for your attention! We need to make three more decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u149	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! To implement the Supreme Council’s decree of February 6, 2003, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations finalized the draft Law on Agricultural Counselling, registration number 1151, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and suggests that it be reviewed in the first reading. When preparing the new law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u150	Ivan Fedorovich, you got it. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Agricultural Advisory Act. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u151	Please be supportive. [[17:27:36]] For-143
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u152	Z-143. The decision is not taken. A draft of the Amnesty Law is being announced for consideration. Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to focus, calm down, because this time we are going to vote on a law that is truly a humane act that we need to carry out. For almost a year and eight months, there was no amnesty. There was a problem with the previous bill, with my bill, although I was a little deprived of the parliamentary initiative, but nevertheless, I am convinced that this bill, which is being proposed, is absolutely neutral, is qualitative, and I propose in the first reading to vote and put two dots in order to finalize it in the second and next Thursday to vote in general as a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u154	For reasons, please, Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u155	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, the adoption of this law will contribute to the legalization, decriminalization and detinction of income and the return of capital to Ukraine. I'm offering to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u156	And I stress that the committee unanimously supported, the Committee on Law Enforcement Legislation unanimously supported this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u157	I'm voting on the adoption as the basis for the draft Amnesty Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u158	I'm asking you to back me up. [[17:29:22]] For 329
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u159	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u160	For 329. Decision taken. Honorable National MPs. There is a proposal and a request from the authors of the draft regulation, please note, the last document, one minute, the last document, this is Bogatirova, Krawczuk, Timoshenko, Vaszuk, Simonenko, Onischuk, Guschuk - to now include in the agenda and to vote on the draft decision of the Supreme Council on the creation and equipping of babies in Ukraine at the centre of cardiosurgery. Motivation is that it's a very necessary document. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to vote in favour of including in the agenda, to consider today, and to make a decision. Please vote. [[17:30:29]] For 352 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u161	Dear colleagues, this problem has its own history. For the sixth time, parliament has decided to finance the baby’s cardiosurgery center, and every time the executive does not bring the matter to an end, the money does not fall for the assignment. Meanwhile, each year there are about 3,000. Children with congenital heart defects die. So here you're offered a proposal -- a draft decision that is recommended and commissioned by the government to address this issue, including in the first paragraph some changes that are agreed upon by the committee. He now, this first paragraph, will sound like this: "To resolve the issue of the granting of a cardiosurgery centre to babies today by the Office of the Institute of Cardiovascular Surgery of the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine of the status of a legal person, relying on it to function as a professional medical institution on the basis of a designated institute for the subordination of the Centre of the Ministry of Health and the establishment of a network of cardiovascular care for children of early age." And then you follow the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u162	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the basis of draft order 3068 as a basis. [[17:32:08]] For 383 Yes, in negative 383, the decision is made. Dear colleagues, the People's Government Group is offering such an addition, I'll read it. Paragraph 3 of the draft decree reads as follows: “The Ministry of Health for 30 days, in accordance with actual legislation, to conduct a tender for the purchase of medical equipment and equipment for the infant cardiosurgery centre. The Cabinet of Ministers will ensure that the funds of the Ministry of Health are clearly allocated to finance such purchases by means of a tender in the amount envisaged for the provision of a cardiosurgery centre for babies under the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2003. In order to finance the purchase of medical equipment and equipment for the center of babies with the results of the tender in full scope to grant consent to receive a loan under the guarantees of the government of Ukraine." So, me. That's an offer. It's in writing. I'm putting her on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u163	I want to say that paragraph three in this project, which we're proposing, is almost like this, but it's either not a tender or it's not a tender. And in principle, it's a perfectly normal practice, you can put it to a vote. I'm voting on the proposal of the People's Rule Group. Well, don't vote, Your Honor, it's your right. Well, they made, they have a right to ask that question? [[17:33:40]] For-182 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the draft ruling as a ruling. Please vote. [[17:34:02]] For 332 It's been decided. Dear colleagues, we have agreed and voted accordingly that we will now discuss the President's address in part of how we will continue to work for political reform. For half an hour we agreed, I'm asking the people's deputies to make an agreement as to how we're going to discuss it. Let's sign up, shall we? Factions, please. From factions, I'm asking you, dear colleagues, from factions for 30 minutes we need to speak for 2.5 minutes. Please, two and a half minutes to get everyone out of here. If you don't want to, then we'll see, but we have to leave everyone. One more question, dear colleagues. Our colleague, Yuri Rafailovich Yukhnowsky, insists on rereading the issue of technology. Let's vote again, insists. I am voting for the re-reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Special Investment and Innovation Activities of Technology Parks for the Creation of Eco Ukrainian Environmental Technology. Please determine by vote. [[17:35:37]] For 131 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, then let's get away from the factions now. List the factions on the board, please. A list of fractions can be shown on the board. So let's move on to the performances. The faction of "Our Ukraine" who will be speaking? Dear colleagues, we have half an hour. You want to do one or the other, don't you? Calm down, 2.5 minutes and we'll turn off the microphone. Everybody's got to come out. Please, the Communist faction. Peter Mikolaiovich, will you be speaking? Please. Alexander Alexander Moroz, please. The bravest faction. Let's start with your faction. Dear colleagues, we've agreed for half an hour. Not all will be able to make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u164	Dear colleagues, I'm speaking from the faction of socialists. First. Secondly, as co-chair of the committee for drafting the Constitution, the changes to the Constitution, I want to make my assessment of the document that we received from the President. Well, first of all, I'd like to comment on the President's address. It's quite complicated and unconvincing, and it's not quite consistent. Thus, the draft law itself is likely to be more easily analyzed. But what is here is characteristic. This project envisions those norms that have already been considered by Parliament two years ago and have been rejected because they are based on a false referendum that everyone in Ukraine has long understood. But what is actually proposed by the President in this project? Change the personal dictatorship into the dictatorship of the clans that will be appointed by him and enter the upper chamber of Parliament. And thus Parliament will become fully subordinated to the President, because the procedure for reviewing the Bills is getting complicated, another veto is being introduced, except for the Presidential Veto of the Upper House of Parliament, which will act in full agreement with the President, because the force structures, the leaders of the power structures are being appointed by him. And in this way, the upper chamber of Parliament will be totally in subjection. Next. He suggests that elections be held simultaneously in different structures of power, including the President, over the course of the year. The offer is not bad in itself, but we should watch when it is predicted. If you impose on an existing Constitution, it will be either a year of renewal of the President's powers, or two years of shortening the powers of today's parliament. Either in the final positions, or in the explanatory note, it should be absolutely accurate. I'm not talking about references to a false referendum anymore, that's another subject. The President's appeal is the letter "and." He says, "Don't let anyone be afraid that the President will have additional powers to dissolve Parliament, because that's what the presidents who will be after President Kuchma will use." I think it's clear here, it's a completely unacceptable project. And I would like the Supreme Council to be prepared to look at this document as well as that project that has already passed the constitutional expertise to let it know what this document is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u165	Thank you. Please, Julia Timoshenko, from the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u166	Julia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues! We all listened very carefully, I think, yesterday's Presidential address. But I'd like to focus on a few things. First. The President's proposals for political reform are diametrically opposed to those proposals that gave democratic forces leading up to the Frost, Simonenko, other parties, have made changes to the Constitution, which have brought the Constitution back into line with our Constitution and the distribution of functions between branches of government. Unfortunately, these are really diametrically opposite things, because the President, in his proposals, has proposed to strengthen his authority, to strengthen his authority precisely by wanting to see the right of the last person he didn't have, is the dissolution of Parliament. Clearly, all the power structures, the appointment of power ministers, the appointment of governors in the regions, all of this is planned by the President. And certainly, with strong structures like pocket money, Parliament will be able to manipulate it as it sees fit. And that's why we're letting Parliament go. But especially what I would like to draw your attention and attention to those who are listening to the radio right now is exactly what the President has proposed the election of the President, the Parliament and the local authorities to be held in one year. This means that either the elections to Parliament need to be held not in 2006 but in 2004 to harmonize with the election of the President, it is clear that the MPs will not agree to this, so the next step is the President's election to be held in 2006, when the elections to Parliament are held. Thus, the term Leonidas Kuchma will be extended to two years later with clarifications to the Constitution. This is perfectly clear and clear from what he says. Now this is the last thing I want to pay attention to. It's a two-room parliament. There are no such examples in other parts of the world for a two - room parliament to be established in the country. Ukraine here is going to start new traditions, and that means that a bicameral parliament is the beginning of chaos in both society and parliament. And when we have Sevastopol and Donetsk, for example, represented in the upper room by one representative, it's clear that it's going to be difficult to find a balance. I mean, the main purpose of these changes to the Constitution is to further strengthen the power of President Kuchma and to extend the term to a minimum of two years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u167	Thank you. From Our Ukraine, Victor Andryovich Yushchenko, please. Prepare Leonid Makarovich Kravczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u168	Dear friends! Let me express these first thoughts on the initiatives that we have heard. Ukraine's main problem is the problem of non-democratic power. A government that the people do not understand, a nation that does not respect authority. This is the principal authority that the people do not trust. This is a key problem for Ukraine. This is the basis of the political crisis in Ukraine. Therefore, in the framework of political reform, we must proceed from how to ensure a democratic procedure for the formation of Ukrainian power when people choose power. This is a key thesis. So if you talk about things that are more optimistic, for us there's a clear logic, by the way, the one that we discussed in the spring in this room is the logic of a proportional electoral system. It's time. And there is no more discussion in Ukraine. The other one. A parliamentary majority should be formed on the basis of political elections. It's time. And it has to be done. The majority should form the Ukrainian government. Obviously! I'm not going to talk about details and finesse, but in general these things are obviously subject to discussion and specific formulation. What is questionable, respected friends? We are implementing political reform at a time when there is little trust in power. The government is proposing political reform. Generally, political reform takes place when there is tremendous confidence in power and in the proposals it offers, then confidence is restored and a transparent model is built. What is doubtful about these suggestions? The first is the theme of a bicameral parliament. You can discuss it, but we really are a unitary country, we're not a monarchy, in my opinion, we're not a federation. And you have to listen to all the arguments that will speak in favor of one concept or another. The other one. Administrative-territorial reform should be carried out and completed, which would respond to the role of territories, the authorization of territories and their financial adequacy. Next. As far as terms are concerned. The terms -- there's also a very disturbing question. What do you mean "election in one year"? This is the return of the country or one of the branches of power to an illegal state -- either the parliament or the President. What is meant in this case is left out of parentheses. And the main thing is, I end up with two sentences, let me just say this. Dear friends, let us learn to talk about what is not the relevant political or constitutional reform in Ukraine, it should be carried out exclusively in accordance with the procedure set out in the Constitution of Ukraine. Stop reviewing the Constitution! We know how the referendums were conducted, and we know that there are no cases where 102 percent of the initiatives were voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u169	Thank you. I invite Leonid Makarovich Krawczuk of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. Prepare John Stepanovich Plush from the Democratic Initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u170	Dear National Deputies! It takes a lot of self-respect to discuss today the draft law passed by the President of Ukraine, because it has just been received, and the seriousness of such a document requires a solid analysis from us. At the very least, the Supreme Council should not turn into a congregation of national deputies, where everyone speaks without examining the situation, simply wants to. I'm not going to touch the contents, I'm going to ask questions for you and myself. Does the President of Ukraine have the right to submit a bill? May. Do we have the right to analyze and discuss it? We do. So I urge you, dear friends, not to make fun of the Supreme Council, but to take into account the draft law, to analyze it, to study it, to consult with lawyers, and then to go to the rostrum and make suggestions. We, the People's Deputies, are left with the right to adopt the law, and that remains behind us, and that's in the law, and the President's bill is marked. Let us adopt such a law that is in the interests of Ukraine, make such changes that are in the interests of Ukraine, and not make mockery, and do not turn the rostrum of the Supreme Council into a political rostrum. It's a long way from the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u171	Thank you. From the Democratic Initiative Group of Democrats, Ivan Stepanovich Plush. Prepare Petra Mikolaiovich Simonek. Who else wants to step out of the faction, please hand over the applications.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u172	Dear National Deputies, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to finish with what Leonid Makarovitch has been talking about -- who is who and what does he turn into? I really am. I won't touch the articles of the bill because we haven't been able to process it, but I want to comment on yesterday's address. Dear colleagues, I know the President no less than anyone. Believe me, I know that the President will not do any reform until we tell him what reform he needs to do. [[Applause]] This is Leonid Makarovich, Leonid Danilovich has been testified, and Leonid Makarovich knows it. So the first surprise for me was yesterday that I spoke publicly since September-month. I'd like to see if I can hear what Leonid Danilovich has to say about political reform. Then, at the end of January or the beginning of February, I heard that in February we would hear or see it. But we didn't hear and see. Heard what you meant last night. But why blame ourselves for not doing anything for six months? Not the commission that the President created, not the commission that Parliament created. What could they do? What could they have done without this project?Oh, my God! And then he says, "I've lost hope that they'll do something." So I have nothing left to say to the people. So, Leonid Makarovich, I think you didn't make a clear statement here when someone is misleading someone because I said it publicly today and I want to repeat it now. I'm not saying in fact that there are several contradictions in the matter. You read in two lines, they say that what people say should be approved by the Supreme Council. And then, after a few paragraphs, it's said that what people say, no one can say, it's the law. This is in the same reference on two lines. And to finish this, which I think is that talking about reforming the political system of power in Ukraine, which has been going on since August of last year, is nothing more than smoking our community or our people. If incense is smoked, it's a nice smell, and it's heard, it's done in the Church, it's done somewhere else, and that reminds me of the lyrics of Anna Herman. You know? Sing, who's to say? Well, no one knows? I know that Catherine Vaschuk knows, but she forgot them.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u173	Well, all right, I'm asking you to calm down, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u174	It's about what it smells like when the gardens are blooming. But there are two sides to any matter, and there is no need to despair. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I know the time is up. We don't need to despair, but we need to know that what we say here is what the President has to do. So think about political reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u175	Peter Mikhailovich Simonenko, please. I ask you to abide by the Rules, many of whom are speaking to us. Prepare Ivan Fedorovich Kuras from the regions of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u176	Dear colleagues! Why is it that this reaction is triggered, and first of all, we people's deputies, after the statement made yesterday by President Kuchma? Not the content of a project we've just been given, but what we can predict and predict today will begin in society after the President's or the President's Administration's plans begin. If you look closely at the proposals made by the President, they kind of remind me of the character of the movie, "It's you, it's you, too, it's all you, and it's just a little bit of me." But when we consider the problem of constitutional reform, we Communists have repeatedly stressed that we should view it as a complex problem and consider it not as we feel today that the distribution of power at the top levels of power, and thus the redistribution of power, so that the power that the people choose, is controlled by the people and acts for the people. Only then can constitutional reforms be effective, and only then will they benefit the people of Ukraine and Ukraine as a whole. But when we look at the problems that the President has put in his statement today, first of all, I have a feeling of disrespect for the Supreme Council, when we two years ago have submitted all these proposals to the Supreme Council, but the President accuses the Supreme Council that we are not considering. Doesn't the President know what's going on in the state, does he deliberately involve the Supreme Council in this phenomenon of redistribution of power for the benefit of only criminal and all-earth clans. Next. The president proposes to hold a public discussion. It's like it's an attractive idea out there. But when we examine with you today why he turned to the people when he never turned to them or to the demands of the people to do what our people today want us to do. And because today virtually labor groups are destroyed, trade unions today are knee-deep, the administration today is forging this discussion, as they falsified the so-called national referendum. And so, to the subordinated Ministry of Justice, they're going to hand over what would be the right numbers to look like a confirmation of the people's will. Next. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, in trying to create a bicameral parliament, not only what the national MPs have already said is a threat to Ukraine, but that it is a threat to both territorial integrity and the integrity of our nation in general. You and I understand who will represent the President's interests in this upper chamber, and how they will extend our state to the benefit of regional interests. And the last sentence. I propose to all the people's deputies who today have taken with great concern the President's statement and the suggestions he has made for the next week to go to the people of Ukraine, to clarify this so that they will not be deceived, deceived again, and more so that the President will not have the right to rely on their will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u177	Thank you. Ivan Fedorovich Kuras of the Ukrainian MP's faction. Anyone else speaking from the factions, please give your applications, if not, we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u178	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I have asked for the floor to make one specific proposal without commenting on the President's proposal or on his appeal. The point is that, as colleagues have already said, this is not a matter of today, it has been discussed for more than two years in one or another way in society, now in Parliament. I would like to remind you that as early as December 2000, a working commission was set up in its own time with experts, scientists, national deputies, and a great scientific conference was held where representatives from different political forces, from the opposition to the left, to the right, and so forth. All these documents are, they're worked out, there's the idea of scientists. What is the meaning of my proposal? Parliament has set up a commission to make proposals on the reform of the political system and changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. The commission met once, considered, as it were, purely organizational matters. And it was said that because there were no other options, there were no other projects. Now there's this project. Perhaps it is worth giving this committee careful consideration, taking into account all about and counter that are both here and in society, to consider and then to put into the Supreme Council Hall for serious, thorough discussion and decision-making. And so with the move, as they say, the apriors, if they didn't know how to reject this proposal, I think it would be inappropriate and unreasonable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u179	Dear colleagues! Are there any other speakers? Please, Bogdan Hubsky. I'm from factions, dear colleagues. Identify yourself, please. What's the procedure here if we agreed on the factions we're speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u180	Respectable Society! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Of course, the question is extremely complex, extremely serious. We discussed this issue in the MP group today. Of course, we support the view that we need to reform the political system and, above all, to strengthen the political influence of the Supreme Council. Clearly, from our point of view, questions related to the formation of the Supreme Council of the Cabinet of Ministers should be accepted. On the other hand, we have not seen the specific text of the bill and those changes to the Constitution that are proposed for us to speak now on certain points, whether we support them or not. Clearly, our view is that this issue is very important and extremely relevant to the Supreme Council. In terms of the interests of the electorate, I can say that, for example, we have a majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority, and as a result of the consultations that were held with their voters, there was no unanimity among them in terms of voting solely for the proportional election system. After all, people said that we would like to know the kind of deputy we could turn to, and we also need to pay attention to that. Therefore, by supporting political reform as a whole in terms of increasing the influence of the legislative body itself, we would support that point. [See Bullet 02:01:10/Natasha Fr. 051] the point of view that this issue would have to be discussed after receiving a specific bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u181	Who else are the factions? There's no wanters? Dear colleagues! Please make a statement from the factions. Calm down. Katerina Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u182	Dear colleagues! To our understanding of the faction, today we had to develop a procedure for dealing with the issue in the future, not to deal with the matter in fact. I completely agree with those speakers who said that it wasn't even correct, that they didn't study the document in detail without discussing it in factions, without hearing the opinion of the committees of profile, today either to praise or to reject it. That and the second is a mistake. We all understand very well that political reform is necessary in Ukraine. Most of the party's constituencies went to the polls under the same slogan, which is supposed to be the majority in Parliament. It has to form a government. Mutual responsibility, mutual work. This calls for an increase in the role of the Supreme Council and a change in the Constitution. We talked about this on several occasions in the Supreme Council. That sounds like a reference. Are we rejecting this moment? No, it's not. No political power. Why, then, do we say that we reject everything? One second. The issue of power reform on the ground. Most people in the regions ask for district managers to choose. Another view in this document. To that end, we are here in the hall to weigh all the pros and cons to listen to the opinion of the people and to make the right conclusions. And the third moment. It's about a two-seater parliament. This is not the first question, it was Alexander Alexander Moroz, head of the Supreme Council, and we were preparing for the review of the Constitution. The Supreme Council came to a conclusion at that time that this was not appropriate and we did not bring this issue into line with the Constitution that we now live by. The situation in the country has changed. The President's vision. And we, MPs, are given the opportunity to decide, because we are going to vote. And what the people have been asked to say is, I think it's a good thing. It's not a referendum, it's a public debate, and we can share it with you. So I urge that we produce on the coordination board how we will work on this important law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-06-m1.u183	Thank you. From the factions that have not yet come forward, are they willing to speak? Ladies and gentlemen, let us answer the question: Is political reform necessary? The answer is yes. I'm asking you to calm down. The other one. Dear colleagues, let's acknowledge that our actions, I mean Parliament, in this regard, in this direction by social expectation. We have demonstrated that we are unable to translate the conversation into practical work, so we do not need to spend time talking. I suggest we meet with faction leaders, like 12 numbers. Deal, determine the milestones, and then translate our agreement into the legal backlog of the bill. If we continue to translate everything into emotion, we will no longer make decisions. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock.
