ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:20]] Registered -416 There are 416 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna and Rishnjak Ivan Mikolaiovich. Let us welcome them and wish them good health, family security, and success in political and social activities. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, we discuss the matter at the meeting schedule. You have a list of the questions that are proposed for consideration. Whatever the case, I'd put the questions out, we'd vote them out, and then we'd figure out what kind of procedure you have. You don't? Well, then let me ask you some questions. Well, please, Rudzkowski and Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u2	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, on the Conciliation Council, we voted this week for Friday’s hearing, discussing the creation of a single economic space. That's what we agreed on. Everyone supported it, the government prepared it. And now we don't see it in the message of the day. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we cannot begin today's session, taking into account the importance of this issue, for Ukraine and for the fate of Ukrainian sovereignty. I insist that we do not now consider any questions until the government informs us on what conditions the only economic space will be created. We cannot discuss any matter until the government informs us and the deputies speak, express their position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u3	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u4	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We offered to consider this issue last Wednesday, referring to the Government's Single Economic Space Day. They moved on Friday. It is now Friday — the question again in the order of the day. Motivation: The government is not ready, there is no Azar. On the other hand, the government is far more than just one Azarov, whose position we already know. Many of the government’s leading representatives have also made a clear comment on this issue yesterday. In particular, the Prime Minister stated that there were no obstacles to the signing of those agreements. That is what the President of Ukraine said yesterday. Why, as the Ukrainian Parliament, we now consider this question on Friday. And won't there be such a thing, including with your support, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we will consider this issue when the government has made a decision, and we will simply be a passive observer in this situation? Please give an answer and pay attention to this line.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u5	Okay. Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko's block, Orobec and we will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u6	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would also like to point out that Parliament is, we don't forget, a higher legislature, and we have no right to allow the executive body, that is, the Cabinet of Ministers, to commit a violation of the Constitution. We know that the EP will violate a number of articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. And that is why we must and must determine the position of the Supreme Council in this and get the position of the government. Is the government ready to break the Constitution of Ukraine, or is it ready to break Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence? In what old age does all of this happen, and why can't the government tell us this now? The absence of Azarov, the absence of another minister, has no right to allow the government not to work. The government should work, and the Prime Minister could come here and clarify the situation. Because if we don't define it now, we're going to end up in a state of authenticity, that is, the day before we sign, we're going to get information, we're going to be able to either agree to it or we're not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u7	Thank you. The workman, the faction of our Ukraine. Then Martinyuk. I can see it all.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u8	On Friday, this was scheduled for a report by the interim commission of inquiry for Mukachevo. Regrettably, I have to inform you of an important event that took place in this direction: the second time the city’s judge was burned down by St. They tried to burn the building materials of this personal property. For the first time, his house was burned for making a bad decision. So I would like my words to be an official request to the Attorney General of Ukraine and the Supreme Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u9	Adam Martinyuk, please, the faction of our Ukraine. Then the Hare John.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u10	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, a faction of Communists, was, is and will be. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich! I understand those who want to hear the question of signing the only economic space today. But I would like to remind my colleagues that this is none of our business so far. Under the Constitution, under other laws the right of the government or the President to sign one or the other international agreements. You and I will consider this issue when it is signed for ratification. And then we'll express our opinion -- we support or we don't support. Now it's going to be a simple, sorry, talk, waste of time, and nothing we can do about it, because we don't have to sign international contracts under the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u11	Thank you. John the Rabbit. Dear colleagues, time is up. Please! Well, I told you you'd be performing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u12	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! Democracy is a procedure. The Supreme Council has voted that today the government will inform us about the agreements, the creation of a single economic space. But that didn't happen. So who today had the right to submit to our meeting the order of the day without that question? That's the first one. Why do we strive to deal with this issue? Because the preparation of such covenants should be made publicly, publicly. But today, the contracts are numbered, unpublished, and no one is telling any truth about them. Moreover, those ministries that have declared disagreement with those treaties because they are in conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine, an international obligation, are now subject to torture, which can be classified as a crime, a criminal offence. I'm referring to the statement of "Trouble Ukraine", which was made yesterday by the leader of Sergey Tihypco. The thing is, he's confusing the interests of holding with the interests of the state, because in the ministries of the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of State, they're the executive authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u13	Sergey Doroguntsev's microphone. All of it. Dear colleagues, we've been taking a break for 10 minutes. That's enough, please. I will now inform and answer all your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I mean. Vladimir Mikhailovich, give me back this second! I want to say that yesterday you made it clear in English exactly when you would listen to that question. There was no rabbit, and these speakers were not seen in the hall. No one objected to such order. They're getting a little sleepy today. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk has already explained what order exists: first he signs the government agreement and then we ratify or not ratify it. We have to go and work in the daytime.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u15	The rabbit, the replica, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u16	John the Rabbit. Sergei Ivanovich, you better think about your schedule. I was yesterday and the other day and all the days all the meetings are in the hall and I work more than you. This is something you should remember.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u17	Dear people's deputies, please. Dear colleagues, when Ivan Alexanderovich and the reverend Sergey Droguncs come to the session hall, I will ask them to welcome each other to see each other present in the hall. Dear colleagues, let me inform you: we planned to consider this issue, indeed, and there was this agreement of the Conciliation Council: to propose to the Supreme Council to consider it on Wednesday. One minute! We didn't vote for Wednesday for Friday. Listen carefully to what I'm saying. Listen carefully! But then it was reported that Azarov, who headed a high - level group working on the document, would be in Mexico at a meeting of the World Trade Organization, the World Trade Organization. He can't make it back. The government did not arrive on Friday. The Prime Minister wrote a letter asking to consider this issue, fully preparing it on Tuesday, 16th, in order to ensure that the government, considering this issue on Wednesday, has a parliamentary position. [[One minute!]] We met, heads of MPs and factions, all of them, without exception, heads of MPs and factions. I made that point. And they all agreed. Let us now consider this question, but it will be meaningless. Dear colleagues, well, let them do each. This is not a statement from the Supreme Council! I'm asking for your tolerance. One minute! Dear colleagues, we agreed. So I ask the heads of committees on foreign matters and on European integration to prepare this issue together, proposing an appropriate procedure for its consideration, instead of having an incomprehensible and unnecessary, unsuspecting, unsuspecting debate today. And now I'm moving on to the question-and-questions announcement. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Mikli Kulczynski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of the National Home Program. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:53]] For 111 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, on the solution to the problem of the viability of the military town of Kirovograd -25. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:26]] For 135 Decision taken. People's Deputies Group Yushchenko, Kostenko, Lucenko, only six national deputies, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to stop the restructuring of the State Aviation Company "Levivian Airlines". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:57]] For 133 Decision taken. Alexander Golub to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the delay in salary for the employees of the Novokahov new construction plant Sokol. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:25]] For 121 Decision taken. Georgia Manchulenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the additional allocation of road repairs to the Shurden Province of Czernovetsec. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:56]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Viktor Borszewski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the inadmissibility of privatizing the Crevice State Mining Metallurgical Combined "Crivoristal". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:23]] For-149 Decision taken. Bogdan Kostinka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of measures aimed at addressing the socio-economic development of the mountain areas of the Ivano-Frankow region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:53]] For-137 Decision taken. Georgia Manchulenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the introduction of the vibration dilatter into medical practice. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:19]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Oleg Tuggnibok to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for refusing to sell an ethnography house in Lviv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:47]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Julius Timoshenko and Mikhail Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the facts of the unauthorized power cut in the Chimerovac region of the Hmeljna region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:16]] For-182 Decision taken. Roman Tkač to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the insufficient execution of the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to develop draft legislative acts aimed at the implementation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Code of Land. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:46]] For-138 Decision taken. Eugene Hoornik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funds for the emergency repair of the school roof in the city of Bogrodcana. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:13]] For-166 Decision taken. Vladimir Matthew to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the reduction of the tariffs of the canal assembly, its use and the changes in the funding arrangements for the maintenance of the Buzek-Dniprov Canal. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:48]] For 172 Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the repayment of receivables by the Chief Executive of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, a group of closed shareholders of the Hmielnicklegprom. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:20]] For-164 Decision taken. Edward Matwijczuk and Ivan Mihovich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the unfinished construction of an insurmountable sewage collector in the city of Uzhgrad. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:48]] For-195 Decision taken. People's Deputies Groups: Crnowil, Wolinec, Seminouk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Coordinating Committee to Combat Organized Crime and Corruption at the President of Ukraine, the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the implementation of the decision of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to combat organized crime and corruption on discharge from the internal affairs bodies of the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the Libyan Railway. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:35]] For-147 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inappropriate reaction of the Ministry of Justice to the parliamentary appeal to carry out a verification of the circumstances of falsification of the contract and the resolution of the issue of discharge from the private notary of the Luhansk City Notary. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:14]] For 176 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies - Grzezhev, Nikolayenko and others - to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Dmitr Tobacco, Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the actions of executive authorities to replace existing benefits to address subsidies for veterans of the Great Homeland War and work. I'll bet you a vote on the direction of the record. [[10:21:49]] For 172 Decision taken. Alexander Pecklesenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for logging in the D.C. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:16]] For-154 Decision taken. Vladislav Atroshenka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the procedure for excluding the introduction of grounds was adopted by the Slavotic local court of the Kyiv district of the Grabovski case. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:46]] For-127 Decision taken. Boris Bespalogo to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the irregularity of the actions of individual officials of the Kharkiv City Council regarding the financial and economic activities of Energoatem. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:16]] For-93 Decision taken. Vladimir Bondaru to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violating the law of law by officials of the Volin district government. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:42]] For-173 Decision taken. Sergey Slabenko and Eugene Kirilczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the failure to implement the regulations of the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by representatives of the district government and local self-government in the Volin region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:15.]] For 158. Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies: Krawczuk, Shurma, only 7 National Deputies - to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with legislation in the use of the Alushtinian Territorial Community Land Fund as a city head. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:49]] For-137 Decision taken. Bogdan Kostinuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the executive action regarding the state regulation of the grain market in Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:16]] For the 120th. Decision taken. Stanislava Phydenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper investigation by the prosecutor of the city of Lutka and the authorities of the police of the circumstances of the death of an Earthling citizen. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:45.]] For a-117. Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Coordinating Committee to Combat Organized Crime and Corruption under the President of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on bringing to justice the responsibility of the Chief of the Directorate for Combating Organized Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Cherkas region for the abuse of office. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:27]] For 185 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies Tsushko, Crnowil and others to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the facts of the construction in the Masandrov Park of the President of Ukraine's Personal Contribution Crimea. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:57]] For 176 Decision taken. Yurya Artemenko and Mikoli Tomenka to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for violations of legislation in the area of freedom of expression by the Primorski Local Court of Odessa. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:25]] For 158. Decision taken. Mikhail Siatini to the Ukrainian Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the head of the Zacarpathian District State Administration, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the immediate completion of the construction of the River Bridge in the town of Hust Zakarpatsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:04]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Alexander Dove to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for violations of the Ukrainian Law on Enforcement of Decisions. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:30.]] For-97 Decision taken. Eugene Hoornik to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the computerization of rural schools in the Ivano-Frankow region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:56]] For-123 Decision taken. Vladimir Leschchenka, head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the legality of the collection of fixed agricultural taxes, other taxes, and congregations. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:27]] For-140. Decision taken. Oleg Tuggnibok to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of violations in the construction of the sub-division shopping centre in the Hmelnicka district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:55]] For-140. Decision taken. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the construction of the district hospital of Borislav Hersson. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:21]] For 122 Decision taken. Anatolia Orzhachovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for the shore-building of the Black Sea coast within the territory of the Novofedrovsk and Krugloozer Rural Councils of the Haerson region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:53]] For 115 Decision taken. Valentina Seminouk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on dissatisfaction with the disciplinary measures taken with regard to the leadership of the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources and their compliance with the positions held. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:31:25]] For-174 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we have spent exactly 30 minutes of our working hours apart and on parliamentary requests. Let's not take a break at 12 o'clock. Let us now consider the issues in line with the schedule of meetings. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations is being announced for consideration, a new edition. Is Les Stepanovich Tanjuk? We need to be clear on this issue, my dear colleagues. Les Stepanovich, would you say a committee proposal? Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u18	The committee's proposal is to move this consideration to November, because a lot of things have come up lately, and the law needs some correction. I'd like to ask very much to arouse my passion and move it to November. I think the sides will understand better.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u19	Please, Peter Simonenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u20	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the fact that the law is not being considered, it is disturbing the situation right in the religious environment -- the interfaith opposition continues, the situation is being used by the authorities to pressure leaders of one religion or another, to use it politically. All of this poses a real threat, so to speak, to the main question of what has to do with spirituality in society. I am deeply convinced, and please, Vladimir Mikhailovich, do not take it out of the order of the day. We know who and how they use these problems, and especially when they are used for the benefit of one of the faiths. We Communists, by no chance, when the Constitution of Ukraine was being considered in the year 96, were just insisting that the State and the Church should be separated from each other. And today we ask: We need to settle at the level of law all those issues that concern interfaith relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u21	Thank you. Gennady Josephovich. Then Yavorowski. Then Stretovich and all, dear colleagues. We will either consider the matter, or we will have a discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I support the position I just took here, Les Tanjuk. Our committee has discussed the issue in detail, this bill, because we consider religious freedoms to be part of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Now, we're on the committee, literally, a wave has gone off the table of church organizations, offering to take their proposals into account. I think this isn't about the Moscow Patriarchate, it's about the Kyiv Patriarchate. That's not the point. I wouldn't politicize that question. Let us move his consideration to take into account the references that come to the Supreme Council, by the way, in your name. And we're on the committees, and we're digging up these references. I got literally hundreds of different denominations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u23	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, we're not getting involved in this discussion. I asked you, I'm Stretovich, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I also warn myself not to take advantage of this issue. I'll tell you one thing: our Ukrainian society and we've been suspended with you for a few signs of questions today -- both about political reform and the signing of the EP and so on. I read this bill very carefully, and I wrote it down. And I would just advise us to stop today because there are very dangerous things in this law that need to be removed and removed that are politicizing religious religions. Because of that, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think our collegiate mind today will conquer everyone and everything, and we'll carry it on for later, and in a calmer situation we'll return to this law. I believe so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, if anyone's in favour of a transfer, I think enough has already been made. Let me put it this way: I'm going to propose a decision for you to consider and agree to. I've had meetings. Dear colleagues, let us either discuss the matter, or let us bear it. I met with religious representatives. What did I conclude during this meeting with the head of the State Committee? That we're a question that doesn't need to be politicized, that the leaders of religions are politicizing it, and that's reality. There is fear, apocryphal fear that there will be a position in the law of predominance of some one religion that is not there. But it is feared in advance that any changes and suggestions that are being made in some countries today are being made. So, dear colleagues, let's move it to November of the month -- the same thing, the painting doesn't change. I think we'll find out. Let's do this because the committee isn't ready to report now. So let me put it this way, Peter Mikolayovich, because, well, I understand you. Let's put it this way: I'm looking at the calendar plan for our work, so let's write it down now in the protocol for September 30th on this bill. No objection from the committee? You don't? Mikhail Kosov, please. Let's write it down, Secretariat, September 30th. On September 30, nothing will change, the law is ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u26	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies. I'm writing as a co-reporter in the afternoon on this issue. And that's why I want to make this proposal. You're absolutely right, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that date doesn't play any role here, because by September or November nothing will change. The only thing that might change, Vladimir Mikhailovich, is the proposal that some church leaders came up with at a meeting of the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches. That is, first of all, to develop a concept of State policy in the field of religion and the church. On this issue, the Center of Alexander Razumkova has already held a round table. And so if in this concept of public policy on religion and the church we define the basic parameters of this issue, then it's easier for us to go out and adopt this law. So let's join the design of this concept, and after it's adopted, let's go to the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, I ask the Committee of Lezio Stepanovich, Hennadia Josephovich Udovenko, other committees together with the State Committee on Religious Affairs to provide round tables, if necessary, for a joint meeting of the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches and Heads of Deputies and factions. And the process of discussion will show that there are simply no conflicting issues, but there are certain political warnings that someone is losing someone. As far as concept is concerned. I don't think it's up to the Supreme Council to accept a concept like that. This is obviously the concept that the government should do and be guided by, along with the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches, but if it's your will, let's do it. But judging from our association with the leaders of the sects, the question of the concept is that we do not accept anything at all. These are also realities that we need to talk about. So let's work until September 30 and look at this. Otherwise, by November of the month, the situation will not change, and we will come to what we have come to today. Is there no objection? Thank you. A draft law on "Determining the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Principles of Internal and External Policy of Ukraine" is being announced for consideration. Reporter Alexander Alexander Moroz. Please. Alexander Aleksandrovich, I'll tell you what procedure is being proposed here. Excuse me. So it's suggested that the regulations, the committee suggests that Vasil Vasilovich Onopenka - five minutes to report, five minutes to answer the question to the rapporteur and have a discussion, here they offer five minutes, let's say at least ten minutes. Is there no objection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u28	I think you can talk about it more briefly because it has a long history. You'll recall that after the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine in 86, it was envisaged that the legislative work plan would provide for the adoption of a whole series of organic laws emanating from the Constitution, which extend certain directions of rights, detail and produce rules of conduct. One such law is the Law on the Definition of Principles of Internal and External Politics, since the adoption of principles of internal and foreign policy is the prerogative of the Supreme Council in accordance with article 85, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine. It is a pity that the very principles and the Law of Principles have become subject to certain political speculation. That's why, when I propose to look at this project today, I would like to point out that we're not currently looking at the principle of internal and external politics. This is what the Temporary Special Commission is working on under the chairmanship of Alexander Zinchenko, and by the time he prepares the project for the consideration of the Supreme Council, we will be determined as to its contents. And today we're talking about the status of these principles. You'll recall how many times there's been a discussion on this issue when proposals have been made to define the principles of foreign policy, separate programs of activity, such as the President's reports or messages, which have somehow been viewed as a course of development of Ukraine, although the word "course" has no legal definition. You also remember that at the 12th anniversary of independence, the President said that in Ukraine everything was done according to this course. But we can see for ourselves that it's all done according to this course. And we need to build on the principles of internal and external policy, according to which the Cabinet of Ministers' programmes of action are being developed, the State's socio-economic development plans, the legislative field, and so on. Therefore, the adoption of the Law on the Status of the Principles themselves, which are required by them, what chapters there should be foreseen, what is the relationship between principles, laws, government programmes and so on is the subject of this law. It was prepared immediately after the adoption of the Constitution, but it was passed on once and for all because it was exposed to a clear lack of acceptance by the leadership of the State of the need to work in accordance with the law. This applies not only to these principles, but you know that the law on state administrations has been passed by the Supreme Council. The veto was against this law, but it hadn't been introduced in four years. So is the law on temporary specialties. Even laws that have passed. on which the veto of the Supreme Council has already been overtaken to amend the Constitution, in particular with regard to 98 articles on the expanded functions of the Court of Auditors. And this law is not in force either, the changes do not work, although our practice, in particular the need to control the situation in the economy of the Court of Auditors as the body of the Supreme Council, requires the adoption of this law. I don't want us to talk about this and this law is the law on defining the Supreme Council rules, and we have to accept it, because it's completely, I emphasize, it's completely apolitical. There may be some political direction in the very principles, but it will be a separate subject, we will talk to you about it again, we will have a discussion. Today, we need to adopt this law, which provides for the status of principles, their relationship with laws, government programs and so on, that these principles should be provided for sections of Economic Policy, Social Policy, State Building and Local Self-Government, Law Policy, National Policy, Humanitarian, Environmental, Foreign Policy. This is exactly what determines the direction of the state's development. And I'm convinced that when we take into account, in particular, the positive response of the Scientific and Expert Administration, and the conclusions of the committee, the proposals that you're going to make in furthering this project, we can accept it today in the first reading and then finally accept it in order to seriously focus on a key document for the Supreme Council that will influence the development of the state as a whole on the principles of internal and foreign policy. I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! Question, please, to the reporter. Sign up. On the board. Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u30	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! I am convinced of the need for this law, its adoption at least in the first reading. But I have a question for you about deciphering these principles. Is the subject too narrow? For example, we have already faced the issue of humanitarian politics. We withdrew the issue of the Law on Freedom of Conscience. Does it require, for example, a humanitarian policy of decryption, which is education, culture, religion, and so forth? The same economic policy, there's no decryption by industry, by industry, by agriculture, we're also encountering. Maybe whatever the rules are, we would, both in foreign policy in Iraq and in domestic politics, not have the kind of cataclysm we have right now. So this is the question: Does not a more detailed list of these principles need to be made?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u31	I don't think there's much more detail to be done. We are talking today about the spheres of government, power, and politics that are being developed in Ukraine. And in the very principles, it's possible to write in detail. And in that project, which we've already reported several times on the rostrum of the Supreme Council, which was designed especially by our faction, there's a detailed description of what you're talking about: both the content of humanitarian policy, and the components of economic policy, and the elements of foreign policy, and so on. And it should be borne in mind that this law provides for the principles of foreign and domestic politics -- it's not a law, it's a kind of orientation, according to which the Supreme Council assesses how the law is drawn up, why it responds, what goals it pursues. So once again, in answer to your question, I say that this is the subject of the principles themselves, not the Law of Principles.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u32	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u33	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Alexander Alexanderovich, of course, you are right in your attempt to develop your own approaches to determining the status of internal and external policy principles, especially since this is known to be the prerogative of the Supreme Council in accordance with article 85 of the Constitution. I have a short question, it's about the norm itself. You suggest that the principles be regulated by the Supreme Council's decrees. Then I have two questions. First. Will these principles be followed by legislative acts? Laws are needed for them to have binding power. And the second. In this regard, it may be appropriate that internal and external policy be established in sessions of the Supreme Council, not by decrees, but by laws that are known in article 113 of the Constitution, which are binding on the Constitution and the law for executive power. That's the question of standard technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u34	I answer that way. Regulations, laws are uniform things in terms of legislation. And it's an element of legislation, and the law is an element of legislation. But since the principles of internal and external politics provide for a very broad subject of regulation that cannot be formulated as a law. Thus, it is also predicted that it is by decree of the Supreme Council that the principles are being laid down. And in order to develop the specific directions provided for in these principles, a law must be drawn up accordingly. In fact, all laws must be in line with the internal-external policies. And then our policy will be clear, transparent, defined, and you don't have to change courses depending on who comes to power -- one political force or another. Thus, from the point of view of the legal technique, principles are established, and principles are implemented on the basis of laws adopted by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u35	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u36	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Alexander Alexandrovich, I'm here. You answered my question in part. But I'd still like to clarify it. The Socialist Party offers the basis for foreign and domestic policy. The authorities now have large capital. And how do you think that big capital is going to implement this policy that, if I don't say so, focuses on the people, the common people, the socialist or the communist idea? You're sure there could be a document that sets out the opposite viewpoints, the opposite viewpoint. You know, I support you politically, but I just don't really understand how big capital can translate the concept you're proposing?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u37	In this case, I'm not proposing a concept of principles, I'm proposing a law of principles. And then when we look at the principles, we'll have a discussion, and we'll see that there are no representatives of the major capital in accordance with our Constitution in Parliament. And they stop doing their work, they end up running banks, different firms, and so on, because they do their legislative work. In any case, theoretically it has to be. And during the discussion, we can convince our colleagues, our partners, who are still randomly dependent on the President's Administration and the clans that make contributions in Ukraine to executive power, that we need to do what we suggest, and they also offer because it's about transparency of our internal policy, transparency in implementation, for example, in the realisation of the stock market and so forth. These are the rules for the time being. And we'll have a discussion on this later. What is more, if we, for example, fail to accept the principle of internal and external politics today, then after the next election, when we actually conduct them on a proportional basis, not in some kind of surrogate, and really lean towards the position of the people, and the Supreme Council will have representatives of those political forces that the people believe in, then they will be able to, by creating an appropriate coalition, certainly to carry out those principles that will reflect people's aspirations. So that's about the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u38	Yes, thank you, Alexander Alexander, time is up. Let's move on to the discussion. We agreed for 10 minutes. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are listed in the discussion. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u39	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Adopting the principles and defining the principles of Ukraine’s internal and external policies. This is the main document that is to be adopted, indeed, by every Supreme Council of every new calling. Then perhaps there would not be what is happening today when it is suggested that we simply give up the interests of Ukraine, and we are encouraged to wait until we ratify it. By the way, you know what's proposed when the Russian Federation has 16 votes, in Ukraine -- 2, in Belarus with Kazakhstan -- one by one. It's normal equality, it's equal to something Putinian. But we're not looking at it. We're looking at a little framework law in which there are seven articles. Considering it a word in the seventh article that this law takes effect on the day of its official publication. Obviously, we think it's more important. In fact, this is a completely formal law that we have the right to adopt, we have the right and not to adopt, Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich, this law, because without it we can determine the principles of our external and internal politics. Moreover, I think it is entirely right that Jaroslav Suhi asked me today that, if he accepted it, he should write that these principles should be determined exclusively by law, not by decrees of the Supreme Council. Moreover, there should be absolutely no violations of the Constitution of Ukraine, since it issues this to the implementation of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which gives Parliament the right to determine the principles of the internal and foreign policy of the State. Yet, article 3 of Part 2, I point out to you, quote: "The decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which define the principles of internal and external politics, cannot be considered before the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and in the courts of general jurisdiction." This article is clearly contrary to articles 55, 124 and 150 of the Constitution of Ukraine, since the principles of internal and external politics, which will be adopted by law or regulation, are a legal act, and can therefore be brought before the Constitutional Court if it carries unconstitutional positions. So I think that the law is one that needs substantial work. For example, we defined customs principles, principles for the use of natural resources, forestry, transport, and so forth, as defined by the Water Code, the Forest Code, the Customs Code. We did not set out a special law on the principles of customs. Hence, from the standpoint of legal cleanness, it would be necessary to simply adopt a law on the principles of internal and external politics and do so every day. But if we talk in shape and what we do to make it just an adopted law for the President, then let's seriously clean it up and then we'll take it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u40	The word is given to Jaborowski. Next Puzakov. Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u41	Vladimir Yavorowski, Zovkla, Yavorovščina, Viktor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine" block. Dear colleagues, I recently read a very nice phrase by William Gladstone, who led the British government four times. So he said, "The main principle of my foreign policy is good governance within the country." I think this relationship between foreign policy and domestic politics is probably the basis for the functioning of the state. We exist with you today in such realities when we have a free internal policy and a completely free and external policy. It's like we have a country that the head of state leads towards lunch in one direction, after lunch -- turns around and leads in a completely different direction. And it all depends on what leg he's on. I want to. This raised a very interesting question from Deputy Radionova: Can the bourgeoisie rule the country? I'm absolutely sure that maybe everything depends on what the bourgeoisie is: if it's patriotic bourgeoisie, if it's deep-national, if it's conscientious bourgeoisie, then let it rule, but when we have bourgeoisie today, when we have a bourgeoisie, when we have a bourgeoisie, when we have a bourgeoisie, it's false international, we see how it rules the country today. And one more thing. I think Alexander Alexandrovich is honorable, perhaps not the Polish deputy of the Seima, in the words of the Seimas, or the British, it would never come to mind to adopt legislation on how to adopt laws on foreign and domestic politics. Because that's what my dead father said, "and the horse understands." It's the prerogative of the legislature, it defines this policy. However, you have done the right thing, although I highly doubt that this law will radically change anything under today’s authority. We have to do this because today we have no, absolutely no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. What we have today, read it, you haven't read it, so agreements on creating a single space. The fact that he contradicts the Constitution is obvious. We have come to this conclusion in the Cabinet of Ministers. The fact that there are things that do not conflict with the Constitution, Alexander Alexandrovich, but conflict, is painfully beaten in Ukraine’s national interests. It also says that gas transport prices need to be reduced, but energy prices need to be increased. So we're going to be reinstated to the hooch level again. That is what this is all about today, and you know that this document has already been initialled. After he's initialled, he can't make any changes. You can either sign it or you can't sign it. Today, we are involved in making adjustments there, there and so forth. So it's already, this document is rickety. As a result, such a law must be passed, and above all, it must be enforced. And lastly, I, too, Alexander Alexanderovich, think we should drop these things to the level of determination, somewhere. But in the first reading, let it go through, and then you have to think about it and sort of level it out. Thank you. It's my job to have this law passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u42	By the law of Vladimir Tikhovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u43	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The analysis of foreign and domestic politics is not always easy to do, for it is shaped by a great number of factors. I'm going to stay briefly in the state of economic policy, more faithfully, of the market economy. We all agree that the market has become a challenge, even the President admits it, noting that the Ukrainian entrepreneur has gone through a difficult period. Why? Why is government distorted by the very essence of small and medium-sized businesses? Why did the state turn the stock market into a shuler market? Why are competitions, tenders, licenses, quotas, landslides, leases, benefits, tariffs becoming a major source of corruption? The answer is the result of the President's personal rule and the creation of a way of usurping the power of the circle system and other concepts of the criminal world. Is it possible for today’s authorities to resolve the issue, as the President himself pointed out in a report on Ukraine’s Independence Day, to separate power from ownership? How can this authority cope with the unique process of monopolization and concentration of capital, which absorbs everything that is wrong from metal scrape to earth and information space, when in the hands of several families all the national wealth of Ukraine is concentrated? Today’s authorities are absorbing everything by using instruments of bankruptcy, privatization, tax services, WHO, the prosecutor’s office, courts, and so forth. The world has never known such a ugly parody of the market. The image of this parody by the President's Administration, who is trying to bleach the blackness of our reality and allow himself to act on obvious things, such as the correctness of the reform movement, the support of the people of Ukraine for the strategic, political leadership of the state, the growth of GDP, and so on. True, per capita GDP in our country is only 43 percent compared to the 1990s. That is, 30 times less than in developed countries. And Ukrainians see every day in every house and family this "right" course of reform. [[in quotes]] Of course, there is no truth, children, that today's market economy in Ukraine is nothing more than a protection of capitalism. Market reforms for the majority of the population have led to poverty, and for others they have become a source of wealth. Some became unemployed, homeless and homeless, while others ruled Ukraine, satisfying their immeasurable needs without any difficulty. Here is what you can see that the distinguished electorate has done to us, a self-proclaimed and self-proclaimed authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u44	Taras Cranwell and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u45	Dear Hennaday Vasilovich! Dear fellow MPs! I am. The subject is usually the title of even the law itself that provokes the discussion of politics, but I would like to focus on the law itself. My colleague Karmazin said that a law that can and cannot be passed. I'll rephrase it a little bit. In the way he's introduced, these 7 articles without the rules of actual direct action, without direct influences really, I don't think he's going to work. But I convince everyone to accept it in the first reading. From these 7 articles, Alexandre Alexandrovich, I've already looked at clearly, I think we can find a way out and make at least 10-12 articles that are perfectly normal to write already completely specific norms. And the principles that the government cannot accept and sign international agreements, and the principles that should be followed by the Supreme Council's instruments of ratification of the treaties already signed, and that should be blocked in general if they do not meet the concepts of foreign and domestic policy that are approved by the Supreme Council, and so on. Thus, the real device in this law is lacking, but this does not mean that it can be viewed as unacceptable in the first reading. We definitely need him. I'll warn you in one more detail. In the law, this moment is, I think, very wisely emphasized that changes to the concept and the concept itself are adopted by the Supreme Council's ruling. I think this is where I'm going to argue with the other speakers, this is a very important moment. Because the concept of state development should be the prerogative of the Supreme Council itself, not the law that goes on to the President, promises and goes on and on and on and on, and it becomes unknown what or is prolonged its adoption for years. This is a document, like the changes to the Constitution, which also have to end up, implementation should become the sole prerogative of the Supreme Council, which is not subject to promise, and a number of other functions are solely the prerogative of Parliament. And that's why I think that if we warn and preserve this moment, plus we're going to produce an active mechanism for the use of this law, then we're definitely going to need it for work. Because this slap of the state, I'm only talking about international politics, starting with the fact that our external vector is spinning like a flugger, into windy bad weather, and ending with the slap of the interior, when the principles of external internal politics can be a certain sieve about economic legislation. And it also has to be written that such laws, for example, cannot even be considered by the Supreme Council if they are contrary to principled positions and so forth. These are the moments we need. So I urge everyone to vote in the first reading and to work very seriously on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u46	Rodion's lineup. Please, Rodion's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u47	I'd like to just ask the deputies to pay attention to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u48	Communist faction, Rodionov. I want to explain my question to Alexander Alexandrovich. I did not deny his report, but I have doubts about the principles that all life has to offer. I'll explain. If leftist, socialists, others, communists come to power in countries, including Western countries, the main policy in these countries is to protect workers. If the right ones come, they're patriotic or they're anti-patriotic, their main policy is to protect a large capital. That's the difference. And that's why I probably had doubts, well, they say, quite objective. And no matter what.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u49	Okay, that's the show. Thank you. From the government: Šumilo Igor Anatoliyovich, First Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economics and European Integration. Time's up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u50	I ask the MPs to pay attention to the conclusion made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The positions of the government and the comments on this project are completely consistent. And I think it's very important that the conclusion is that there is a need for a substantial revision of this bill before it is adopted at first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u51	Please, the Head Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u52	Mr. Chairman, please tell us what rules of our Rules provide for the discussion of the agenda, the first reading of the bill by a representative of the executive branch. I'm practically like that. A representative of the executive branch is not the subject of this bill, he is not the subject of a legislative initiative. And you give him your word. The subject of the legislative initiative is a member of parliament, you do not give the other MPs a word, but you give the word to an entirely foreign body, as it were, a representative of another body that has no relation to it. There's no such thing as the Rules, so I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u53	As far as government participation is concerned. Each question determines who is involved in the government. And as far as the Conciliation Council is concerned, from the government he sits, he writes, and they participate. And in general, the Supreme Council does not accept laws for itself. Laws on principles of foreign and domestic politics. You can't go like that. Let's define what the Rules of Procedure are. A committee shall be appointed, and it shall make its proposals. Before we listen to the question, we are familiar with it. We're not going to do it that way. We're done here, let's move on to the next one. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, national MPs! Ivan Alexanderovich! Calm down, please. Here's the order that's written down by the committee manager. If we move away from this order, there's a general procedure, 45 minutes. Let's be general. Continued discussion? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE Let's keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u54	Please, the word has a miner.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u55	Eugene Hoornik, Valley Electoral District 89, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear colleagues, indeed, this law is not as simple as it seems at first sight. And so the circumcision of his consideration does not really seem to be entirely logical and not entirely appropriate. Indeed, the articles of the Constitution state that it is the Supreme Council that determines the principles of Ukraine’s internal and external policies. But in practice, it is quite different: the Supreme Council has only legislative provisions, and the practical policy is not government, but the President. And so in the light of the envisaged constitutional reform, this definition of the principles of Ukraine's foreign and domestic policy is Parliament's very own. And indeed, if the Supreme Council had more influence on these processes, maybe we wouldn't have had a situation where some of the government allows themselves to count documents that conflict with both the Constitution and the national interests of Ukraine, which create a common customs space, and there are financial losses, and also others, I mean these next Yaltic negotiations. And perhaps this would not be the case if we were involved in an Iraqi situation without being identified by the United Nations Security Council. And other procedures would be more considered both by the government and by the President if there were any of these principles. So in this situation, the adoption of this framework law is necessary. The second point is that this law really needs to be corrected and brought into line with the Constitution. Indeed, it does not seem logical that the decision to determine the principles of internal and external politics is not the subject of a hearing before the Constitutional Court. Of course, this is a situation that needs to be removed. It is also not clear from article 4, that the Supreme Council, in determining the principles of internal and external politics, is based on the fact that this belongs only to the people of Ukraine and should be adopted on the basis of the Constitution, be accountable to it. This is self - evident, and it can be ruled out. Well, last but not least, these principles of foreign and domestic politics will be accepted by the majority. And then the principles will not reflect the idea of a parliamentary minority. So I did not ask Alexander Alexandrovich in vain for a list of these principles. I think, and yet I'm going to be proposing that the list of these principles be expanded, and in these principles they might have expressed their separate opinion, if it doesn't match the thinking of the majority of the opposition factions that are in the Supreme Council. I propose to adopt the bill in the first reading and continue to work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u56	Okay. Viachelav Kirilenko, please. Next John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Respecting both the bill and the author, I still think we're doing a little bit of absurdity right now. It's absurd from the point of view that we're talking about fundamental things, the principles of foreign and domestic politics. On the other hand, we have the process of entering Ukraine into a single economic space, which, of course, is essentially looking at all of the previous principles of both external and internal policy, as reflected in all the other fundamental documents of the country, from the President's messages to the normative acts of any ministry. It is also noteworthy that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is currently discussing the principles, cannot be able to attend its government meeting with information on those documents: the Agreement and the Concept on the Single Economic Space -- which it plans to adopt in the near future, and the President will sign. We have decided that this issue should be heard today, although the 2 members of the Supreme Council, including myself and my colleague Rudzkowski, have made a draft decision on the Government Day with this issue on 9 September. We're here for the government's concessions. Today, by just a letter from the Prime Minister of Ukraine, he informed the Supreme Council that he could not come, because there is no, Vice-Prime Minister, whether there is anything else, or whether there is no cohesion in the government, or whether it is the government that does not support the signing of the Single Economic Space Agreement. Thus, it made it impossible for society to listen to discussions, to find out what the factions saw, to see how Parliament and the government viewed it. It seems to me that under circumstances that we still do not approve, they will ignore such governments and such presidents. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue to be a passive observer, not just a secondary event, but an observer of the substantial violations of the Constitution of Ukraine and a whole series of legislative acts that can take place in the event of the signing on September 18 of the President of the Kuchma Agreement and the concept of the EP in Yalta. We can't let that happen. And I don't think it's going to make it impossible for this kind of event and even the adoption of fine principles or the fine order of acceptance of these principles by the Supreme Council. So I think as long as the country is ruled by such a non-patriotic and non-democratic elite, it is deeply indifferent. It seems to me that as long as decisions are made, such as those made by Tihypco, yesterday when he said that those ministers who speak out of state position will be held by him, Tihypically recalled, and those who seem to somehow like Tihypco have the right to sit down in our national government. It seems to me that only the present elite, which is not democratic, will act on such principles, is not subject to the rules of the law. I support the rules, they need to be defined. But I don't recognize this behavior of the Supreme Council when it can't force the government to come and provide an explanation of the very important issues that are now the most important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u58	Please, John the Rabbit, next, Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u59	Honorable National MPs. I welcome Alexander Moroz's obstinacy in pushing the principles of foreign and domestic politics. This is a constitutional requirement, and that honors him. I also welcome the fact that Alexander Alexanderovich has listened to my suggestions, because we are having a long-standing discussion about this document, that we need to first determine the status, what the principles are, and then take these principles specifically to the Supreme Council. But I can't agree with Alexander Frost, essentially a few articles, especially the 5th, the 4th and the 3rd. The point is that his bill says that principles such as these are the standard on which laws, laws, should be directed. And if laws or programs run counter to these assumptions that are only adopted by decrees and regulations are not the same legal force with laws and with the Constitution, then these laws and these programs are simply rejected, that is, replaced by the Constitution by some kind of mythical principle. And you can't agree with that in principle, and this is my greatest warning to this bill. Then it is said in article 3 that these principles cannot be considered in the Constitutional Court. And the 2nd article says that at the same time, these principles do not contain regulations of a legal nature. Yes, indeed, if they do not contain such provisions, they cannot be considered in the Constitutional Court. But if a document that does not contain a legal norm, it cannot, in principle, be above the law or the Constitution. And it says here that it's above the law and the Constitution. So this whole law is made up of fundamental contradictions that both conflict with the Constitution and run counter to the current legislation. So I would suggest not to accept it, but to rewrite article 2y, 3rd, 4th and 5th, and then this bill can be adopted. Otherwise, it's going to be a change in the Constitution, a change in current legislation. And speaking of the principles of internal and external politics, I think it's going to have to write out the same relationship between the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers. Because what happened yesterday, for example, with the statement of "employees," today is that the Attorney-General should open a criminal case with regard to this party, because this party directly commands the minister, who speaks of the position of the state executive authority, that you should give up your public office and listen to us, that is, those who act for the sake of the clans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u60	Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! The Supreme Council does not carry out its function of determining the principles of internal and external politics, although this is enshrined in the Constitution. Now there's a lot of talk about the need for constitutional reform. First of all, we must abide by the Constitution and obey it. And the Constitution clearly states that the Supreme Council defines the principles of internal and external politics. Throughout the period of the Supreme Council, they have virtually failed to perform this function. Why didn't you? Because the executive branch and, above all, the President refused to let her do it. So the problem is not only that the Constitution has changed, but it has to do with the Constitution in the first place. And because of the laws, we also carry out the Constitution. Of course, there's a problem that Alexander Alexandrovich pointed out, and I agree with him that there's an unspecified procedure, an uncertain technology that defines the Supreme Council as the principles of internal and external politics. That is why a procedural bill is needed to introduce the process of defining such functions by the Supreme Council into the legislative field of technology. And from this point of view, the bill needs to be supported. Of course, it needs to be improved, improvement has no limits, but the time allowed is limited. And finally a specific example that everyone here is talking about. The question of the only economic space. Obviously this is a violation of the Constitution, which is contrary to the Constitution. What's more, they say this nonsense: The only economic space must correspond to the Constitution. By definition, he can't answer, because the only economic space is a superstate body, it's an introduction to a customs union, it's the only currency. All of this is contrary to the Constitution. Again, instead of following the Constitution, they question the need to change it. I don't mind changing things, but let's not be at the President's level, at the level of government, to violate the Constitution, proclaiming the need to make changes to it. Let's stick to the Constitution. And I think that the Supreme Council should take a principled position, it should play its role, perform its function, including the function of defining the principles of internal foreign policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u62	Alexander Alexanderus Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, I am very pleased with the discussion that took place here. And I'd like to say to John Alexanderovich that our whole life is made up of contradictions, and you know that. And the whole point is that by regulating one or the other, we clearly define the procedure, the status of the accepted documents. Today, much is being said about Ukraine’s foreign policy. She's not like that, she's not. Today comes the swinging from one side to the other, it's like a cow walking on ice. You can go a long way with that kind of politics, you know. That's why we have to reflect this policy in principle, but first we have to say what should be the principle document. This is the subject of regulation in today’s law, which is the principle. I agree that from the 3rd article, there is obviously a need to remove the thesis on the findings of the Constitutional Court on the principles, because the principles can really conflict with, well, theoretically, 157th or 158th article of the Constitution. Let's take that into account. But you need to understand that it is not necessary to extend the document itself, because part of Taras Chernobyl's proposals have been made, and some of the reasoning has been very clear. But part of his proposals apply to the Law on Legislative Activities. Neither do we, it seems, should have passed the law, but that is what the whole world does. And we ourselves feel that from the procedure of preparation to legitimization and to monitoring the implementation of the law, we need to normalize the relationship in society, this is definitely what we need to do. I would ask you, in fact, to support in my factions the idea of the need to adopt this law in the first reading, and also, taking into account the activity of today's discussion, to make those proposals to this project, which, on second reading, will certainly be taken into account. I don't think there's any discussion here. And notice, the authority of the Supreme Council to adopt the principles of internal and foreign policy was voted upon during the last-minute review of the Constitution. This is a clear proposal and thanks to the parliamentary corps at the time, they supported this proposal because the authorities and part of the presidential team that worked on the Constitution did not foresee that the Supreme Council would address these issues because it was about demeaning the status of the Supreme Council at all. And since we've already had five times if we haven't brought six to the Supreme Council's consideration of the principles themselves, and then we've come together in a heated discussion, and the team was still out of Bank Street, about not accepting any grounds, because the state's development is going in the direction given by one hand, but that hand is going in the different directions sometimes. So the point is that this document is absolutely necessary. We cannot continue to live in a state ruled by an illegal government. There is no law on the Cabinet of Ministers. What are we talking about? We need to improve the law on the President, we need to pass a law on the election of the President, on the election of local authorities, and so on. We have as much in this direction as we have, an endless field of work, which, by the way, is being blocked by executive power and the President's Administration. Because in a murky water, it's better to fish. So let's, this is one of the devices, a network for these pursuits from the executive structures, we need to put everything within a framework, understood, accessible to society. And the effect on the content of the program itself, the very principles, we will also determine by election, by communication with the people, by obtaining appropriate powers from the source of authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u64	Question completed. We will be appointed on the day of the vote. Let's move on to the next one. Draft Law on the Disciplinary Statute of the Customs Service of Ukraine. Reported the first deputy head of the State Customs Service, Alexander Borisovich. Baranowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u65	Dear Hennady Andriyovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u66	One minute. Alexander Borisovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u67	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. You know, I'm surprised. The other day, I read the statements made by Minister Bilokon, who essentially took power in Ukraine, he stated it directly. He's already going to call the Bureau, the President's Office, prosecutors and so on. So it's going to take power and it's clearly being followed. On the other hand, I'm reading on the schedule today -- the report will be Kalensky. One takes power and the other does not go to Parliament to report the law. How can we understand that? What is this attitude toward the Supreme Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u68	As for Kalenski, there's a report that he's on his way. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Ukraine’s draft Law on a Disciplinary Statute for the Customs Service of Ukraine was drafted in accordance with the requirements of Article 410 of the Ukrainian Customs Code. According to the legal expertise of the draft law, the draft law does not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine in the conclusion of the Supreme Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the settlement of the issues envisaged by this project refers to the competence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft law does not conflict with international standards, namely the International Labour Organization Convention ratified by Ukraine, as evidenced by the expert opinion of the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour. The introduction to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of this draft law is related to the need to increase the responsible attitude of customs officials towards the implementation of laws, government tasks, to ensure proper control of the activities of officials, since customs officials have a special legal status, not of the officials of other public authorities, and to perform both fiscal and law enforcement functions. The subject of the legal regulation of the disciplinary statute of the Ukrainian Customs Service is: the organizational arrangements for relations with the administration of customs discipline, the procedures for the application of incentives and disciplinary appeals to officials, the procedures for the prosecution of decisions in the application of disciplinary charges. The implementation of the disciplinary charter of the Ukrainian Customs Service does not require additional financial and other expenses. This document of the internal life of the customs service, the principal legal instrument for orderly conduct and strengthening of executive discipline. In addition, the adoption of the disciplinary charter will increase the responsibility of officials for the improper performance of their duties, especially those directly carrying out the duties of duty, as well as those who control the activities of the subordinates. The project was supported by the Committee on Economic Policy, the Management of National Economy, Property and Investment, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, and the Committee on National Security and Defence. Please support this project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u70	Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, are we following a reduced procedure? Why are we voting with you, why are you and I taking the meeting schedule here in the hall, why are we holding the Conciliation Boards, please tell me? If you've got a reduced procedure! Well, there's a Rules. That's how you push me to break it. So let us follow the order set by the deputies. Please, Deputy Budzigan Philip Philipovich, member of the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of Agriculture, Property, and Investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u71	Budhagan, a faction of Communists. The Committee on Economic Policy, Management of Agriculture, Property and Investment at its meeting on 13 May considered the bill to implement the 410 article of the Ukrainian Customs Code, which was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. The bill defines the essence of official discipline in customs authorities, specialized customs agencies and organizations, and the manner in which the disciplines encouraged should be applied, which should in turn encourage customs officials to perform their duties conscientiously and to observe clearly the restrictions and prohibitions imposed by Ukraine’s legislation. The evaluation of the scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus, which has been given, determines that a draft of the Ukrainian Law can be taken as a basis. In doing so, he makes suggestions that need to be taken into account in the second reading. The bill has six chapters and 47 articles. It should be noted that in article 25, chapter 4, it is clear that violations of service discipline include cruel or disrespectful treatment of citizens, humiliation of their dignity and dignity, unauthorized personal examination of citizens, and obstruction of the legitimate activity of business subjects in carrying out external economic operations. And there are corresponding articles, the 24th and the 25th, where there are written types of strings for such violations. As a result, the conscientious performance of the duties of customs officials in Ukraine by means of their legal regulation is an important factor in preserving and fulfilling the tasks assigned to the customs service in Ukraine. Our committee supports the bill and suggests that it be adopted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u72	Have a seat, please. The word is Carmazin. Next Yavorowski. Please prepare in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u73	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, customs is the face of our state. Today, we are plagued by the serious burdens of smuggling. We're miserable today because there's a clan-oligarchy regime in power that doesn't detest and that gives the customs officers instructions to miss one or the other goods, one or the other. So we've got contraband sugar, vodka, and citrus, and even a whole bunch of cars coming across the western border right now. And the Attorney General is forcing his subordinates, including to look through their fingers at what is happening on this border. In this situation, it is very important that customs are protected by the state as representatives, on the one hand; and, on the other hand, that they feel responsible for each of their actions as civil servants as representatives of the State. The Customs Code was adopted on December 12, 1991. On July 11, 2002, you and I adopted another Customs Code in a new edition that will take effect on January 1, 2004, which provides that the ratio of officials is governed by a disciplinary statute that is approved by law. On January 1st, the law will enter into force, and the law on disciplinary statutes is not yet in force. I have to point out that while the bill was being submitted, it made a serious metamorphosis, it's a completely different law, it just became similar to the law, it counted the position of the postpartums, but the truth is not quite yet. I can say that article 44, 45 of the Constitution provides for the possibility for customs officials to exercise their constitutional right under article 55 of the Constitution in the courts of the decisions of customs officials to bring subordinates to disciplinary responsibility. However, it would also be necessary to write down the circumstances in which disciplinary responsibility is excluded and, in addition to the extreme need set forth in article 26, the necessary defence and the execution of an order or order and the justified risk. And when I talk to all customs officials who may be listening to us, I want to say, don't follow criminal orders, don't obey orders to make our country poorer, and every citizen also, you have the protection of the border, you have the protection of the economic security of the state. I think this law should be adopted as soon as possible in the first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u74	I mean, you're in. Yavrovsky Vladimir Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u75	Vladimir Yavorowski, first deputy head of the investigating committee on smuggling at Ukrainian customs. Mark Twain said a beautiful phrase, saying: “Only one person is known about this person, that she was not in prison. But what she didn't do in prison is unknown." Too bad it's not bitter for me to say, but our tax collectors' family, it's probably because of one thing. Yesterday was very important, and perhaps even for the first time, at least in my memory, for the first time in the history of parliamentaryism, there was a meeting of our Temporary Investigation Commission, together with the Committee to Combat Organized Crime. The conversation was so difficult, so cool that I can still see all the details in front of me. What is it? One day, remember, a wise old Jew said during privatization, "I don't need anything, you give me a 30-40 cm border there." So today we have to make a note of this point, that in fact our united Social Democrats have taken over the entire western border of Ukraine, which is entirely theirs. Especially after being released from the Western customs office, which covers virtually all the western borders of Ukraine, it seems to have been transferred to Kiev for the promotion of the beautiful General Johnyuk, and instead appointed a deputy to the younger Medvedchuk, a person completely unprofessional, unprepared for this, without special education, to direct customs and to give him extraordinary powers. So tell me, are we going to have an order at the customs office or not? Today we need to talk about not only the colossal shadow capital that rotates on customs borders and before smuggling. If sooner, you may know, my dear colleagues and listeners don't know if they had previously gathered on the Polish side a large roller and waited for the necessary change to be replaced at the border, and then on their mobiles they rang and said, "Come on!" And then all of these cars were falling into Ukraine, bringing meat, which, by knocking down the prices of our manufacturer, is now being done all day long, no one is afraid anymore, all of this is open. There's a fundraiser coming up right now for the presidential election, that's obvious. Because by saying just a little bit of what I know that I feel about what's being done on Ukrainian customs today, I can only say one thing: this law is clearly necessary. I got a call from the Rava-Russian Customs, from the others, and they really asked me to support this disciplinary charter of customs. But I am absolutely, dear colleagues, convinced as long as Kalenski is in charge, as long as this entire team, who obeys, sits. I'll tell you one thing, do you know how much a customs office or a customs office costs today? $100,000 needs to be transferred to the Administration. We have lived to see that today the customs officer needs to give consent to the President's Administration for his appointment. So you understand what customs we have today. Because of this, this statute may at least help a little. But I'm sure it's not for this authority, it's not for this collection of customs, it's for this customs committee, it's for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u76	I mean, Volodymyr Alexanderovich, are you for this law to be passed? Mikola Fedorovich, are you in favour or against? Two is a pro. Who's "against"? No, no. Who's against it? I understand everything. Who's against it? Dear colleagues! Come on, there's order. What is it?Oh, my God! Is it against who? Against you? Andrew, do you mind? No, no. All of it. Done. Let's move on to the next question. The question has been considered. Do you mind? Please come to the rostrum, if you don't mind. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u77	Dear colleagues! I'm against organized crime. .smuggling, corruption, extraordinary powers, and for upholding the rule of law! I have great doubts that the adoption of this law will give something real. In itself, the law is not bad and it would work for normal conditions, but if we don't have laws and when we live by concepts, and when all issues are resolved as Yavorowski said, unfortunately, the adoption of even good laws doesn't work. And then they accuse the Supreme Council of adopting the wrong drafts or not adopting the bills. For a long time, we have tortured the Customs Codex in our committee. He was furiously opposed by customs officials against the adoption of the Customs Code. For several years we have overcome this opposition. The Supreme Council was recommended, there was opposition. After all, the Supreme Council approved. And what do you think, the pressure again, the opposition again, and for two years in this room we voted, I didn't vote for the introduction of the Customs Code to take action. Here's a concrete example of how these things happen. Of course, I hope, after all, that in the end, the adoption of the Ukrainian Customs Ministry's disciplinary statute is disciplining the Ukrainian Customs Service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u78	Is anyone against it? Let's get out of here like this. Andrew School, one minute. He was good enough to ask you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u79	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. May I speak, Mr. Volodymyr? Am I interrupting? I'm not intruding, all right? Please don't disturb me. Because in principle it seems that we came here to Parliament to work, not to discuss laws, but to press a button. No one here is interested in the discussion. Let's just make a decision that every day we're going to discuss twenty laws. If we do not read them without looking at them, we will simply accept such a determination. What nonsense, I don't understand. We came here to Parliament, basically translated, this discussion. We must discuss the law, express our position, and everyone has the right to do so in Parliament. For, against that, it's a different situation. Then we will have to take the steps that the previous speaker has taken against organized crime. So what I'm saying is that this bill, it's essentially not going to have the regulatory force that they're putting into it, like everyone else. In principle, it can be accepted in the first reading. But the most important thing is that we really have to go back now, and here I am in solidarity with the Customs Code. We can talk here all the time about how much is going on through customs. Who controls the western border? The same Cossack in his 72nd birthday became a general twice: he was a general tax general, now he became a general of customs. And in principle, once again, it won't be guaranteed by this disciplinary code. That's why we can vote for him, but I stress, only on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u80	Sergei Shevchuk, one minute. One minute, please. As for the order of hearings on a particular matter, this is determined by the Rules. If anyone disagrees, let's make suggestions to change. So once again, I want to remind you that with you and 226 votes, at least, we accept the agenda, the schedule of meetings, we determine how we're going to move, how we're going to listen to the question -- no, someone disagrees. He says it's not, I want it different, I want it different. So another way to think about it is 226 votes. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u81	Thank you. I am against those who oppose the adoption of this codex. I want to explain why. Today, we are discussing two issues regarding customs. Today, this issue can be addressed through the prism of agreements that are planned for signing within a single economic space. This is, as we understand, not just about the free trade zone, but about the new customs union, the customs union of Ukraine with a number of states, when the territory, the customs territory of Ukraine, will approach the territory of the countries of Central Asia, Mongolia, China and other countries. So I would like to hear from the customs officials today the warnings about this agreement from the professionals of this service, not the unanimous approval that we have heard from the service manager on the first television channel. And for the people's deputies, it's obvious that we need this bill, which we're considering, and the next one, and in particular the new customs code, is to put it into practice as soon as possible. This is a guarantee of the security of our country’s borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u82	Thank you. Valeriy Alexanderovich, I propose to vote now and for two hours to put the matter to rest. Is there no objection? Why? Please read the Rules. Microphone, please, Yavorowski. Study the Rules, study, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u83	Well, that's my right to repeat. You read it!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u84	Turn on the Yavorowski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u85	Calm down, I respect you, Mr. Chairman. But I just have to do what my last name says, and I just want to apologize to the radio audience in front of Cherniak. People’s deputies came to me at that time and said that I had made a profound mistake. And I admit it. Not a hundred grand to pay in the administration, I'm $300,000. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u86	Let's move on to the next question. Draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Customs Code. Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economics and European Integration Bezlodimir Aleksandrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u87	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs! The draft law was designed to implement section 21, paragraph 3, of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Customs Code of 11 July 2002, number 92, which takes effect on 1 January 2004. The main objectives and objectives of the bill are to bring a number of legislative acts of Ukraine into line with the Ukrainian Customs Code, including the proposal to amend the following legislative acts: Ukraine's Foreign Economics Act. The law introduces the concept of “reimport” in order to place the re-import operations on external economic activities carried out in Ukraine by its subjects. Ukraine's "One Customs Tariff" Act is excluded from the law by article 16 - "Mental Cost" and article 18 - definition of the country of origin of goods due to the fact that it has resulted in the determination of the customs value of goods and countries of agreement of goods more perfectly regulated by the new Customs Code of Ukraine. At the same time, changes are made to Article 19 of the Tax Exemption, since according to the provisions of Article 225 of chapter 37 of chapter 7 of the Customs Code goods fall under. A customs-free shop is implemented without customs duties, taxes, fixed exports, imports of such goods and without non-tariff control measures. Third, article 22 of the criteria for granting tariff benefits and preferences is consistent with the provision of tariff benefits solely on the basis of Ukraine’s laws, including the conclusion of an expert committee, an expert body in the Ukrainian Tax Law, as well as Ukraine’s international treaties, which are mainly made in order. Furthermore, Ukraine’s Excise Congregation Decree is exempt from the payment of excise duties for goods sold by a store of dutyless commerce, as well as those imported by diplomatic representatives in accordance with Article 225 of Chapter 37 and Articles 286 and 290. The Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on State duties is amended into article 4 of the Decree with a view to the release of customs authorities and specialized customs agencies and organizations from the payment of government duties when the introduction of the courts. The Ukrainian Law on Local Government and the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations includes specialized customs agencies and organizations, as provided for in the Customs Code. In addition, the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activities is included in the activities that are subject to licensing, the activities of the customs carrier and the opening and operation of the customs licence. The Banking and Banking Act of Ukraine, in accordance with part 3 of Article 45, includes provisions according to which the banking authorities are required to inform the customs authorities, on their own initiative, of the information they have available for customs control. And the Ukrainian Law on the Single Congregation, which is managed at the points of entry through the State border of Ukraine, is excluded from the list of types of controls that the single congregation is carrying out for transit clearance. This is also in line with Ukraine’s new Customs Code. Laws require additional financial costs. There is an expert conclusion. I'd like the MPs to approve.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u88	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the P.I.P.P.P.P.P.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u89	Budhagan, a faction of Communists. The Economic Policy Committee on July 1, this year, reviewed the bill that the Cabinet of Ministers introduced. The main purpose of the bill is to enact legislation in Ukraine, i.e. 9 laws. Decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, in accordance with the provisions of the Customs Code of Ukraine, which takes effect on 1 January 2004. And we're going to be at our third quarter committee meeting to discuss the process of preparing and willing to introduce the Customs Code as of January 1, 2004. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account its observations, proposes that the bill be adopted as a basis, i.e. adopted in the first reading. Our committee supported this proposal and considers it necessary to adopt the bill in the first reading. In addition, we are also proposing that the third paragraph of the Supreme Council's decree is as follows: "Cancel the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 12 July 2001 on the adoption on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine", registration number 0892-1. So please, if we vote, support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u90	Thank you for the hard report. Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Let's move on to the discussion. Next, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u91	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with the fact that we should cancel the decision of the Supreme Council of 12 July 2001 on the adoption of the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine. And I see a positive in this law, but I see a negative. And I fully share the view of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which raises the question of where they clarify the position of the new edition of Article 22 on a single customs tariff, assuming that the application of the above-mentioned tariff benefits, tariff preferences on imports of goods may be in accordance with Ukraine's tax laws or with Ukraine's international agreements, as laid down by law. And on the introduction of additions to article 1 of the Ukrainian Act of 16 April 1991 on external economic activity aimed at ensuring the definition in national legislation of the term "tariff quota import". In addition, the honourable national MPs, I appeal to you, the bill proposes to supplement article 5 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's decree on the status of excise duties, which does not deal with implemented excise goods which are not intended for consumption in the customs territory of Ukraine, are under customs control and are carried out by shops without customs trade at customs border crossings opened for international mergers of other customs control zones determined by customs authorities, as well as by taxable goods imported into Ukraine for official and personal use by international organizations and persons who, in accordance with international agreements and laws, are exempt from taxes and assemblies. That's very true, but I'm addressing you on one point. How many changes can we make to unconstitutional documents? Because the Constitution determines that all questions about customs are defined exclusively by laws. The decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine under the Constitution of Ukraine in 96 is an illegal document. And let us keep that in mind. I am addressing all the economic committees that are on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please predict in your plans this, foresight the elimination of all decrees that have been written down as contravening the current Constitution of Ukraine. I'm also going to the Science and Experimental Authority, the Legal Department. I've just started this work on elimination, and I'm studying how to address this difficult past that we know about, how it was done in one night, how these decrees were baked, and now we have these huge problems, and we're making changes there. I'm talking to the government of Yanukovic, let's have complex systemic legislative acts, let's forget what decrees are. I'm talking to the Ministry of Economics, and that's your problem, including yours. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u92	Thank you. So you're going to take 35 times 7 and cancel.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u93	For you to accept with additions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u94	And cancel the 0892. Please give the word to Andrew Skull.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u95	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I wanted to point out, first of all, what I said about the absence of the Customs Code. It is simply in this situation that we remember about a year ago that customs officials came to us and convinced us that the Customs Code could not enter into force unless a whole series of legislative acts had been prepared in connection with the entry into force of the Customs Code. And now, gradually, they're going to the Supreme Council. So here I feel like I don't want customs to have a regulatory, clear list of laws like the Customs Code. And so, of course, there's nothing left to support these amendments, so you have to introduce the Customs Code, because it's been suspended for two years, the year is over, and soon, it might finally come in, if the Supreme Council doesn't postpone it again, then let's go for 20 years, in 20 years so we'll prepare, so we'll have a list of laws, everything will be so good, only in the state will be gone, because during this period of time the customs borders will just stop working. Because here, behind the big words about customs, you just have to understand what the economic border of the state is. The economic border of the State regulates domestic economic relations, protects them from entering the economic territory of those goods that either: (a) are of lower quality, or: (b) are produced in that State and must have certain preferences. When we open economic boundaries, when we go to Russia for example, of course this Customs Code will no longer be necessary. So I would like to point out that in this situation, customs is a matter of the internal economic security of the state, first and foremost. No one believes in dozens of spies who want to infiltrate Ukraine in particular. Of course, there are hundreds of people who want to leave Ukraine who have been illegally infiltrated by other nations, even worse off than even in Ukraine. Although this is hard to believe, it is true. Well, at least it's on TV. That's what they are. Maybe. I haven't been to these countries, maybe they actually live worse there. There they are. It's still a problem with customs and the border. But most importantly, it's the penetration of illegal smuggling goods into Ukraine. And they're breaking into huge numbers, destroying and undermining Ukraine's economy. And here, once again, from the Supreme Council you get everything and you get, you get this law as amended or without. We will support it, but please do not block the Customs Code. Do not demand of us what we should not do in principle, but do so by deferring to 2 years the adoption of this law you need. Because you don't need a disciplinary statute, it's a customs code, because you've shown this Customs Code to those who will call you and ask for it. 20-30 ft, you say, we can't. And that will protect you and the economic security of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u96	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! Of course, in connection with the adoption of the Customs Code, changes are required in accordance with other laws of Ukraine. This is a normal procedural issue and it needs to be resolved and the bill needs to be supported, of course. But I'm going back again to the question that comes up against us, which is completely out of line with the Supreme Council, which is what we talked about today. It's about signing the Single Economic Space Agreement. I have the impression that those people who sign this and who speak this language have no idea at all what the only economic space is. This makes a lot of sense. These people say we're for getting in. in the only economic space, but in order not to violate the Constitution; we are against joining the customs union and we are against the only currency. [[It's practically impossible.]] In that case, it's not going to be the only economic space anymore. The only economic space has an attribute. One is the introduction to the Customs Union. If we sign the agreement, the nearest Ukraine will have to enter the customs union, the customs union of Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan in the future. And then, really, Ukraine's customs borders will go through the customs borders of Mongolia, India, China, and then you'll have to bring all the laws of these countries into line, it's a great deal of work. [[Russia, Kazakhstan and Belarus]] It's just a waste of what we're doing right now, it just loses all meaning. How can you ask such a question without realizing what it is about? Instead of asking the question right from the start, and putting it right is a free trade zone. That would be normal. And the only economic space is something else. As they say in Odessa, that's two big differences. So we're now faced with the need to think about if we're involved in this process, how we're going to ensure that legislation is consistent across the entire customs territory of the so-called single economic space. This basically means that there is now a European Union. We're practically joining the Euro-Asian Union with a single customs territory. That's the perspective. And we have to realize this, what are the benefits, what are the downsides. Not by shutting your eyes, hiding your head in the sand, talking about the only economic space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u98	Thank you. But I advise you, read article 3.3. 9 The Rules of Procedure, which refer to the speech of the deputy, are not in the dark. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, I don't think there are any deputies in this room who don't understand the importance of introducing a new customs code as an important document of our state. But you may likewise agree that before we talk about the entry into force of this law, we need to make sure that the concept of the State’s border is definitively defined. Unfortunately, when we discuss this bill, which sounds like this -- about making changes to other legislative acts -- we have to deal with really other problems, not just customs. One such problem is the problem of the state border. I would like to remind those present at this session of the fact that the border between Ukraine and Belarus has not yet been officially recognized by the Belarusian Parliament, because this body, the legislative body of the neighbouring country, has not yet ratified the border law between Ukraine and Belarus. You also know that far from the completion of the work on demilitation, the demarcation of the border with the Russian Federation, especially at sea. There are problems related to the border with Romania and the island of Snakes. This may be the case when we really adopt the Customs Code, but the subject matter of this law and the Customs Code will be something uncertain, uncertain. So, in supporting the government bill that we are considering, I would also like to refer to government representatives from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, requiring more forcefully to carry out this work of our State's external authority on the organization of the state borders of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u100	Thank you. Question completed. Let's move on to the next one. It is proposed to consider a draft law on the nature of the privatisation of the stock package, which belongs to the State in the statutory fund of the closed stockholding company "Transnational Financial Industries Oil Company Uccratnafta". [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, one minute. Please, Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u101	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Hennady Andriyovich, the issue that has been raised today, is a matter of national security. It is impossible to deal with this under a reduced procedure, without the representation of the Cabinet of Ministers, without the conclusion of the government. I ask you to remove this question or move it, at least for someone to be from the government. It turns out that the company was a waste, there was no question of privatization. Now 192 million net earnings on the enterprise, let's privatize it. The question is, did it count the loss of the state from privatizing such a large multinational financial and industrial oil company? Why is the question today? Maybe the government will explain it to me. Moreover, the issue cannot be dealt with by a reduced procedure. In the background, the issue was not a short - lived one. Gennady Vasilovich, let's not play cat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u102	Please, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u103	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Gennadius Andriyovich and his distinguished colleagues, I can't understand what we created in Parliament for a monster like the Conciliation Council. Today, in the Conciliation Council, most are in the hands of the majority, that is, the forces that are spoken of here as bourgeoisies, which are civilized or uncivilized. And they determine what laws are adopted in general and what are the reduced procedures. And so important is the law that today, when it comes to privatising the stock package of the Transnational Financial and Industrial Oil Company, Ukrtatnafta is being proposed for a reduced procedure to cut off the maximum, there is nothing to give to anyone to talk about, but that even radio audiences in Ukraine do not know how the company is being privatized. That is, the opportunity to steal and do it, so to speak, under the cover of the Supreme Council. Can we accept that? So I propose, like Valentina Petrovna Seminyuk, that we postpone this consideration and consider it on a general basis, as we consider the laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u104	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u105	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Hennady Andriyovich, the honourable colleagues, this law is very important to the state, I mean, in terms of what might affect the economic security of the state, because it just started to rise, it just got back on its feet. The state began to receive stable revenues from the State Budget of Ukraine. We don't have the conclusions of the budget committee today, we don't have the conclusions of the Committee on Financial and Banking today, we don't have the conclusion of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization. Moreover, she did not consider this law at all. It's only Tuesday she's planning to look into it, it's for those of you who can't hear, it's for Semenyuk to confirm to you tomorrow, just for Tuesday, I was wondering, only for Tuesday. And without all of this, without Prime Minister Janukovich, we bring this issue to a brief table. I don't think we have the right to approach this project so lightly. I know you, Hennaday Andriyovich, as a statesman, it is up to you to make a decision and to take it out of the discussion today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u106	Andrew School, please. Let's finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u107	Thank you. I would like to say, first of all, the bill that's being proposed, it's important, and I fully agree that it's very important, despite its specificity, because every bill is special, it has a notion of privatization, that is, money and finance. And such laws must be very clear to the electorate first, for people to be able, if they want, to get an opinion, to know the opinion of their deputies. So, first of all, it has to be a full procedure rather than a short one. Secondly, if the profile committee had not taken its decision, failed to assess it, it would have been desirable to remove it from consideration, because first of all, Hennady Andriyovich, it casts a shadow on the Cabinet of Ministers, which is some lobbyists who want to do something there, or there are others who don't want to do it. So in order to relieve the tension, I would suggest that you take it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u108	Okay. Basil Gabrieluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u109	Thank you, Gennady Andreevich. Dear colleagues, I wish I could say. The profile commission, back then, our special privatization commission, is not a profile in the consideration of the bill, but in fact the Committee on Economic Policy. The Committee on Economic Policy considered the bill twice in its meetings in June. Similarly, the Committee on the Fuel and Energy Complex, at its meetings, considered twice in June-month. Today, there is no provision for a bill to be withdrawn under the Rules. If it's all right in the daytime, it's only in the vote that you can do it. I therefore insist that this bill be considered now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. As for the removal of this issue in general, we have to vote. We can't. We've got it. No, we have it on the schedule. So if we vote, let's put it to a vote: take it down, move it, it's the right of deputies in the room. But we do have the head of the State Property Fund Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov in the hall. [[Listen, please.]] He expressed his opinion on this matter. So I would suggest that if we don't have a reduced procedure, we should look at it as a whole in general mode, and we should be determined on the day of the vote. Please report to Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u111	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Honorary colleagues, based on the bill presented to you, have laid down the principle of legislative identification of the characteristics of privatization objects of strategic importance to Ukraine’s economy. According to this principle, the privatization of objects of strategic importance for Ukraine should be based on separate laws. This will help to ensure transparency in the privatization process and reduce the possibility of applying shadow schemes when privatizing strategically important objects for Ukraine. And we already have a positive experience of applying a special system of privatization. This is the privatization of the VAT "Maryupolska Metallurgical Combine of the Illich Name", the VAT "The Crucifixion". It's not worth talking about his importance to the domestic economy. First of all, this is one of the largest oil-processing companies in Ukraine, which has a leading place in the country's supply of petroleum products; second of all, Ukratnafta is a budgeting enterprise in the Kremenchug region. Moreover, the expenses paid by businesses account for a large part of the government budget. Thus, Skrtatnafta, without exaggeration, plays a strategic role in the country's economic security system. And it is unacceptable to privatize such an object under general rules. In view of this, we have proposed a project aimed at ensuring a transparent and effective privatisation of the stock package, which belongs to the State in the charter fund of the private limited company Skritnafta. The following are the features of such a project. According to the project, privatization should take place through an open competition. In doing so, it is unacceptable that the privatisation pact should be broken down and the ban on re-profileing the Skrtatnafts. The cost of the privatization object will be determined by an expert evaluation, but it can't be below the nominal cost of the stock package. The project provides for a privatization commission of 15 persons. The commission consists of 11 members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine who are appointed by Parliament by means of an appropriate decision. The commission will have a fairly broad mandate: this is also the recognition of the value of the object of privatization, and the recognition of the list of contestants, and the development of all the terms of privatization, finally, the determination of the winner of the competition. In our view, it is the involvement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the privatization process that will ensure that this process is optimal. The project envisions a range of privatization conditions, including job conservation, safe and safe working conditions and environmental protection, technology conservation and production. So the project does not provide any advantages for any of the potential buyers of the state stock package. Therefore, we are confident that the adoption of our proposals by the Supreme Council will allow for transparent and open privatization of state property, prevent any abuse of government property management, and eventually increase the level of involvement in the oil industry and increase the amount of revenue available to the budget, which will allow for increased funding of the State's social programmes. Dear colleagues, I would like to add that, in fact, the process of privatization, the specialization of the privatisation of Skrtatnafta 43 per cent, is not the same as our colleague said that the privatization process should be carried out in the workplace, which is already privatized to the profit of Ukrtatnafta. a closed shareholding association. Today, stocks were distributed there and it is now the case that the State still has a 43 per cent shareholding package, which is the entire property complex that the State introduced into the joint venture when it began to form in 1995-1996. I want to tell you that the process is not very simple; it has indeed undergone some serious expertise, including scientific and expert management. The Scientific and Expert Office has considered twice, and we have removed the comments for the first time by the Scientific and Expert Office. I want you to read the findings of the Scientific and Expert Management as a result. "A general conclusion. As a result of the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Act on the peculiarities of the privatisation of the stock package, which belongs to the State in the statutory fund of the closed stockholding company "Transnational Financial and Industrial Oil Company "Ukritnafta" can be taken as a basis for taking into account the comments and proposals made." In addition, the Committee on Economic Policy has considered, once again, twice. The Fuel and Energy Committee has considered it twice. And all the approvals were accepted in the first reading. Besides, they're working together. Additional conditions will be expressed. But if we are looking at the position of the State today, we have in fact two directions: either we are running an open competition with the involvement and control of the Supreme Council and we are getting as much money as possible in the country's budget, or we need to look at and question the fact that these 43 per cent of the shares were actually held by the State. If the concept is adopted. You know what the basis for the privatization programme is today. Not less than 51, there's 50 plus one action after the state wants to leave. And most importantly, thanks to you and Parliament, we have been able to achieve that this enterprise, this stock package has not been privatized and sold this year, because in the plans of the property fund, I think Mikhail Vasilevich Chechetov will say that the property fund planned to sell this enterprise this year. It was only because the Supreme Council had taken an interest in it because it was a matter of serious insistence on it, because many MPs insisted that the privatization of such enterprises should be subject to special laws. And if we make such decisions with you, then the Mine Fund will already have grounds to privatize the enterprise for 2004. And they have plans for 2004. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u112	Please sign up for the questions. Light up, please. Kirilchuk, Eugene Kirilchuk, next Baranivsky
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u113	The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, Eugene Kirilchuk You've given us so convincingly, and you haven't given us any numbers. Tell me, this 40 with a stake in government property, this profitable enterprise should give a certain amount of money to the government budget every year. How much of this government property has gone into the budget in the past and this year, and for what amount can our shares be sold? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u114	Thank you for asking. Today, it can be said that, under current legislation, 43 per cent of shares are privatized under special schemes. This means the preferred right to sell, and the purchases of the package are owned by those enterprises that are in a closed shareholding partnership. You know that very well. And that's what 43 percent of the stock is today, 155, almost, millions of dollars. If we are making open trades, you may have heard in the press many candidates have already claimed to participate in the competition, they want to participate in TNCs as well, and many other British Petroleum companies have a Lukoila statement. It is my understanding that up to half a billion dollars can be allocated to the State budget of Ukraine. With regard to annual contributions to the country's budget, I am afraid to say incorrect figures, I think Mikhail Vasilevich Chechetov will tell them or the Committee of Economic Policy. I just want to say that in the budget of the region, the Poltava region, in particular Kremenchuga, is an integral part of the local budget for this enterprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u115	Please, Baranowski. The next one is Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u116	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that this is where the reporter said that 41 percent of all shares in the state were left, not owned by the state, but remained. The fact of the matter is that the State, as the owner of shares of one or more joint ventures, has received absolutely nothing from dividends in these years from its profitable enterprises. All of this is said to have been decimated by those who have a piece of property there, let's say, 10 percent, the state is 90, but they've had their way of thinking about it as they wanted. So this year, dear colleagues, remember what we first recorded in the budget for part of the payment of dividends from government property in one enterprise or another. And it's already gone. And now it's called that the business that makes extraordinary profits, we're putting it back on the market and it's not quite clear. I think we need to think about what kind of a profit-making enterprise is going to give him some profit on his stock, sell it? Until then, we will be more supportive of the interests of certain clans than the interests of the State and of the entire Ukrainian people. Please explain to me what is the point of selling these shares when the state can receive steady profits from them?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u117	Well, the question probably isn't to me, it's to the executive branch, as far as your general conceptual question is concerned. And if you want to know my point of view, I've already told her that under the existing bill, sales will be much smaller than we can do by adopting a law on the nature of privatization of such a strategic enterprise and where we will make this process transparent and open and under the control of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u118	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u119	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear colleague! I'd like to ask you, did you get to know the full conclusion of scientific and expert management, because in their conclusion under paragraph 2, they wrote about the establishment of a privatization commission directly by the Supreme Council, the Constitution of Ukraine does not give such powers to the legislative body. That's the first thing they wrote down. The other one. How do you know who wants to participate in privatization? What have you announced about the previous congregation of applications or what? And the next question. I became familiar with both the first bill that was repealed and the second. Where, at the level of the tenth grade, would the economic foundation of such a terrible bill be? Where is this justification? Where are the findings of the government committees? Where are they, please? Maybe I didn't see them? Give me a clue as to where to find it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u120	Yes, thank you, Yuri Anatolyevich, for asking. You're just very busy with your work, so you probably haven't studied anything now, haven't considered it. At the fuel and energy meeting of the Fuel and Energy Complex Committee, Mikhail Vasiljevic attended, and representatives of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy attended. This issue has been very relevant, seriously considered, in detail. And it's the Ministry that agrees, and there's a property fund. With regard to the observations of the Scientific and Scientific Administration, he read your conclusion. The observations that we have concluded are that we have already replaced the second draft, which we have considered, here is our colleague Rudkovski, who knows that we have removed all the comments and the Committee on Fuel and Energy and the Committee on Economic Policy. Not in the conclusions of what you're talking about. The second paragraph does not make much sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u121	Thank you. Have a seat, please. He will report to the first deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u122	Dear Gennady Andreevich, distinguished colleagues of the People's Deputies. I would like to point out that, under the bill under consideration, there are a number of fundamental features in privatizing such a serious facility as a transnational financial and industrial company. It did not, by the way, take place as a financial and industrial company due to legislative inconsistencies in Russian and our legislation. Thus, the main features of this bill are that it is proposed not to allow: the first, the fragmentation of the stock package, is very important. Because, you know, 43 percent is a package that can only block assembly. Next, it is still a definition of the start price that cannot be below the nominal value of the package. And what is very important is monitoring the implementation of investment commitments in the sale of the package. We have experience of privatization, and we have considered the programme with you in the past, and the Maintenance Fund Act, many noted, and the people's deputies, which is a negative experience of privatization and experience in fulfilling investment commitments. I would like to say a few words about the prerequisites of the draft law. To demonstrate that the transnational financial and industrial company Ukratatnafta was established as a closed shareholder society by decrees of 1994 from the President of Ukraine and the President of the Republic of Tatarstan. The Cremenchugugsintez and the oil industry of the Republic of Tatarstan were established on the basis of the Kremenchug NPP oil processing capacity. The agreement on the establishment of "Qurtatanafta" established that the minimum quantity of oil supplies to be processed by the company's production capacity, including on the basis of its own production, should be at least 8 million tons per year under the terms of consumption. Thus, this agreement has been implemented once since 1995, once in 1995. This extraordinary company, it wasn't created by selling a property complex or selling shares, it was created by creating a joint venture, and in fact, we're not talking about 43 percent today, we're talking about all of the Cremenchufteorgsintez oil processing complex. Thus, as far as the enterprise is concerned, it is indeed essential for the country's economy, because one thing is to process, like all these years, 2-4-5 million or 8-10 million. According to expert estimates, British Petroleum estimated, including the optimal processing of some 10 million today, taking into account current conditions, based on capacity, the depth of processing. So, imagine if it was 5, or 10. Twice, if we take this difference, what will be the budget income? It will not only be budgeting for the Poltava region, for Kremenchug, for the country as a whole. It should be noted that, until recently, and let us say, before this year, there has been a change in the management of Ukranafta, Ukratnafta has processed, and there is a natural monopoly, these pipelines, almost all of East oil, that is, the most valuable hydrocarbon that has been used primarily for oil production, namely the only oil production in Kremenchug, and the production of aviation fuels, high-quality fuels. Regarding the price of the stock package. Since 1994, since the issuance of the decrees of the two Presidents, Leonid Danilović and Shimiev Mintemir Sharipovic, the Charter Fund has changed three times. Well, let's put it this way: 1995 -- 700 million dollars, specifically, it wasn't filled. And according to British Petroleum at that time, the cost of the Cremenchougan NPP was 350 million. They also estimate that the factory was able to generate $69 million a year after tax, a net profit. In 1998, the price was overestimated due to changes in oil prices and the statutory fund amounted to 359 million and 900,000. The assessment of our State's contribution is a property complex of 43 per cent, and 154 million 950,000 have been identified. There you go. And the first idea to form a charter fund was 900 million. If we do not define special conditions today, special measures in the exercise of privatization, a closed equity society, will be evaluated, quietly, in secret, and we will eventually receive a completely different amount. That is why we have also considered it on the Committee, and the Committee has decided to support it on first reading. There is an expert opinion. And there is the conclusion of the Government, Nikolai Janović Azarov -- we received it on the committee -- signed it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u123	Any questions? Please sign up. Lighten up. Sergei Slabenkol. Next, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u124	Sergei Slabenko. Dear Volodymyr Anatolyovich! I wanted to ask you this question. In your reply, it was clear that the investment obligation had not been fulfilled for years, that the statutory fund, which had been formed several times, had failed, or the amount of oil that was to come. Don't you think it would have had to be decided earlier that the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office should have been in the interest of the State to make a full review of the activities from creation to today's "Qurtatnafti" stage and to ask the question of the return of all this property in the light of state ownership and, accordingly, to take further steps to privatize? Because I can't understand what the investor's purpose is to buy 42 percent, and who's the other investor that has 58 and has a significant impact on this society. According to your findings, I understand that this is a non-resident of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u125	Thank you for asking. That's a very good question. The point is that, once again, the "Qurtatnafta" was created by special rules. This is an unusual privatization, a joint venture where two States initially participated. Today, on the Russian side, Tatarstan already has a Tatneft stock company, they are already non-State, they are an open stock society. The question is that investors have failed to fulfil their obligations rather than implement agreements that have been signed between the founders of the joint venture. That is, the question must be asked not to fulfil the obligations of the founders. I guess so. But we cannot regulate this process here in the Supreme Council. I think it's probably the government and the holding fund at all. The law is intended to prevent sales at low cost and with uncertain investment. Because this package was already put on sale this year. That's why the bill came into existence, and if we adopt this law, I think I'm going to make a reasonable point about how the founders' commitment is being fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u126	Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u127	Thank you. In principle, I support the good intentions of the initiator of this bill because it gives the impression that it is lobbying someone's interests. I don't know whose, but I think his interests coincide with the state. Because anyway, well, we know what the State Property Fund does, it privatizes or accepts, well, anything that can and cannot be done, and that's why that 43.5 percent was put on the market. So you can explain to me, if we're adopting this law, we can, like, privatize. We can talk about what the impact will be and when the breach occurs, we can pause and review fully the privatisation acts that have been taken before. It's about reviewing and continuing the return to government property. And the second. Can't we just adopt a bill that would ban or suspend just all the privatisation moments in this project? I would forbid the holding fund to privatize it, to put it on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u128	Thank you, well, for the author's sake. I think he's lobbying, but he's lobbying the interests of his constituents. Because such an object as Skrtatnafta, they are indeed, well, budgeting for its region. And that's what people do. There are over 4,000 people working there today. It's just a major enterprise. On the other hand, if we adopt this law, is it possible to regulate those relations that have not been established by the founders? I don't think that's the law. There's still a number of regulations to be adopted for that, but I don't think it's necessary to do that in the walls of the Supreme Council, because I think it's today. Not necessarily, but precisely today, the interests are represented by the Holding Foundation and it must raise the question that the contributions of the founders are not being implemented and agreements signed between the two Governments are not being implemented. But the adoption of this law would give rise to a decision as if it had not been resolved to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u129	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, please. You still have a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u130	Nicolanca, Socialist faction, Hersonian. Dear Volodymira Anatoliyovich, well no doubt we understand that the adoption of a law on the characteristics of the privatization of such a giant as "Qurtatnafta" is certainly what we understand that someone wants to do something else in Ukraine. Because as long as this business was a waste, no one talked about it. As soon as it was made last year, the question arose. I have three short questions. What about the Kazakh side? They were in the middle, too. Sorry, Tatar side. The other one. What will the labor force have to do with this privatization? You said there was more. Almost 5,000 people, maybe more. And the third. And who today holds these 57 percent shares in the hands of other than our own state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u131	So it's sequential. What is the opinion of the Tatar shareholders? Well, I think so. I don't think, and I know exactly, they'd want to get that 43 percent, because then they'll have full control. To date, 56 per cent of the population is small. I can tell you exactly, it belongs to the Tatar side. It was sounded in the press. This is the Trust Fund of the State Committee for State Administration of Tatarstan, 28.7 per cent. They were produced by the oil company Tatnefteprom. So essentially, the company has 74, that's more than a control package, an oil company in its composition. But because there's little oil coming in, there's very little. So that's one of the questions. Let's move on. “Datneft” has 8.6 per cent, “TAT-Neftehiminwestholding” 0.035, “Sower” stock company 0.035. These are Tatar companies. Two non-residents, Swiss and American, are now owned by Tatnefti, i.e. they are completely falsified companies. 1.154 per cent belongs to Ukrisibbanku, a Ukrainian resident.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u132	Time's up, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u133	Thank you. The labour force won't get anything, Stanislav Nikolaevich, because he's not taking part in privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u134	Shurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u135	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I want to support you. I will not speak. I took one minute of the vote for reasons. I want to support the point of view expressed here by the National Deputy of Ukraine School. Let me explain why. Before the election, I served as Deputy Director General of the Open Shareholder Society Motor. in Zaporozhye. Our business was privatized under a separate law, for which was a great thanks to the Supreme Council and those deputies who worked at the time. I'll be honest with you, if the privatization of strategically important enterprises were to go under the general law, they'd be left with horns and legs. Therefore, this law must be adopted. Perhaps it is necessary to improve, perhaps putting in place, what kind of public control. But it is on a separate scale that we need to privatize it so that we do not lose a lot of money for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u137	Okay. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Rudzkowski. Please, Mikolayovich. Next up is Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u138	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! Discussion of this issue is a very important issue for Ukraine’s energy independence. The point? That virtually all the oil refineries that are now in Ukraine are privatized by Russian oil companies. And you can see what's happening right now with the price of the oil products during the soybean. In Ukraine, the Ukrainian state still has the right to one oil refinery is the Kremenchuck oil refinery. 43 percent is just a completely oil-processing complex in the city of Cremencucci. I am very ashamed to hear that Tatarstan, Russia, has privatized 80 percent of its property, Tatarstan, the State Property Fund of the Republic of Tatarstan, still keeps the control package behind it and is fighting for the Russian side to acquire these shares. And the Ukrainian state, which has no impact on the energy market in Ukraine, wants to take away 43 percent of the shares in this joint venture. The government needed to gather, make decisions, buy out five percent of the shares, and obtain a control package in this joint venture. This is a strategic task for the state. By the way, Gazprom did Russian, which sold more than 50 percent, and then bought five percent back and now has 51 percent control over the state, because the state has strategic interests. I believe that when the discussion is: Should I sell as it is, or should I adopt a separate law? It's better to adopt a separate law. Because, you see, the Ukrisibbank, he wants through lobbying, through the Presidential Administration for 146 million. Or 154 statutory funds by nominal, with connections in the Office of the President, and the state will not receive another 400 million. That's what I'm talking about. And so if the question is, what should we do? - First of all, I think we should adopt a separate law and secure the 43% NAC by Naftogaz Ukraine. If this law doesn't pass, we have to adopt this law, and put a $500 million price on the open tender. If no one buys, then leave the country. Because we need to protect national interests. If we do not accept a single law, our oligarchs will take it into their own hands or give it to the Tatars. And we need to protect Ukraine's energy market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u139	Valentina Seminyuk, next is Stepan Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u140	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. First of all, I want to ask you why the special review committee didn't consider the issue. First of all, I want to say that according to the work plan, this speed of inclusion of such issues, and especially on Friday, so that no one is in the room, is the basis for pushing the document. And the commission will consider in accordance with the Rules and the powers of the commission. That's the first one. I would like to ask representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers: is that the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers or the Ministry of Fuel and Energy and the State Property Fund? That's a big difference. There is no decision of the Cabinet of Ministers on this matter. The second question. I analyzed 1998. In the hands of the state, 60.7 percent. Dividends totalled 2.8 million in 1998, 5.5 million in 1999 and 2000 million in 2001, none. Now there are 43.5 percent left, there are no congregations. There's no net profit of 195 million, no receipt of dividends to the budget. As it was two years ago, there was no profit, the company was not put on the market. One thing I wonder: Why should a profitable enterprise today be sold directly? The other one. Yesterday, you and your respectable colleagues adopted the Law on the Administration of State Property. The object is strategic. Why should we today sell an object rather than act in that direction and leave it behind? By the way, it's one of those enterprises that's left over and it's still part of Ukraine. Everything else is already the monopolies of other states. Is that how we think about our state or are we thinking about someone else? Second, article 5 of the bill sets the initial price at the minimum level without taking into account the indexation of the basics. I'm saying fourth: according to the Cabinet of Ministers, the methodology should take into account the inflation index of 352 percent. The methodology is not specifically reviewed by the Cabinet of Ministers so that the initial price is not taken into account and the inflation index is not included. So the starting price is going to be very low, not including the inflation index. Articles 1 and 2 state that the goal of increasing budget income is not directly reflected in article 8. This means, I quote in article 129 of the Privatization Programme: "The contract for the purchase of a control package of shares of an enterprise that is strategic for the economy and security of the State includes commitments by buyers of any kind. [[I'll read it because there's so much to read.]] They should be provided with minimum income figures for the budget." This means that the nominal amount should be given. And under these conditions, you're going to get 1 bracelet of profit and you're going to get a direct dividend. In view of the fact that you and I adopted a law yesterday on the administration of public property, we must secure this package in public property, otherwise the issue of economic security will no longer be dealt with in this room. Moreover, one remaining enterprise, which still has the status of a legal person and the status of a direct participant on the part of the Ukrainian State. Such an object cannot be considered without the conclusion of a budget, science and expertise department, and even more so, without economic accounting, the decision of the government, not the decision of the official, not the decision of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, but the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u141	Please, Stepan Cloud. Next, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u142	Cloud, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Fatherland Party. Dear colleagues, I will not touch this law, and I will tell you why. Well, first of all, I understand that the authors of this bill wanted to support both the labour force and the state in some way, but they went the wrong way, because you can't even talk about privatising the Ukrainian stock package in Skrtatnaft. You can't do that categorically. And even if necessary, there will be a separate law prohibiting the privatisation of this stock package. Why this situation was, why the state didn't get a dividend out of it, I'll tell you, it's entirely the fault of the State Property Fund, which has turned into an office in Ukraine to promote mafia structures in looting national wealth. And I am fully responsible for saying, and the behavior of today's head of the holding fund, Mr. Chechtev, needs to be evaluated by the Criminal Code. This is what the latest events around the Clean Metals plant in the city of Svetłovodsk are talking about. And I think this question is going to be taken seriously. Attempts to tear up and privatize the Skrtatnafti stock package could certainly lead to Ukraine’s total loss of its presence in the oil processing sector. And, you know, this is already a threat to Ukraine's national security. So, thanking the authors and developers for their work, but I think I convinced them that they themselves need to act as initiators and withdraw this bill, because we can't talk about privatizing this package of shares. This is totally contrary to Ukraine’s national interests and national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u143	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u144	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Honorable National MPs. Honorable Chairman, Honorable to our Ukrainian people. Everybody wants to do better, and it's getting worse. We wanted to do better by those who sold and the Tatars brought all the oil, but there was nothing going on, and I'd like to draw your attention to the complete list of owners. Today, Vladimir Anatoliyovich did not fully answer, but he did not say that there was a national MP, Alexander Jaroslavsky, and there was 1,154 percent. And earlier this package belonged to the MT bank, our Ukrainian bank. So what I'm doing is if someone is looking for something that's growing their ears, I just want us to know clearly what's going on. I'd like us to count, I'm very pleased that Demyochin is saying this with knowledge of the case, but that we're aware that the factory's ability to process is 18.6 million tons of oil. This is a third of the market and this is extremely important for the national economy of Ukraine. It's extremely important. And so having a law in which an explanatory note on one page, on the page, is too tight, for such a project, and for such volumes, is nothing. Therefore, the National Deputies are told that the Committee has some answers from the government, from whom else. And I'm going to show you what they've given to the people's deputies. People's deputies got away with it, they saw the old one. And let's talk about expert research, too. Although I have my own expertise, my own expertise says that the law is very raw and ends only with good intentions. Thus, the bill does not correspond to part two of article 13 of the Law on Privatization of State Property, which defines the list of persons who should and may be part of a commission for privatization of an object. That is to say, there is no inclusion in the privatisation commission of the representatives of the Antimonopoly Committee, the persons who have applied for privatization and so on. This article states that the work of the privatization commission can be carried out by national MPs, but only to ensure transparency and transparency of privatization, rather than for the execution of the powers that the bill relies on: the determination of the value of the stock package, the assessment of the bids and so on. To ensure transparency and transparency, the introduction of a total of 15 members of the 11 national deputies into the commission is too much. And I want to ask the government, the authors, "Would it be possible to increase prices by 20 percent now if it wasn't for the Tatars and the Russians to own Skrtatnaft and other factories, but for the Ukrainians? No, that price increase would not have been possible, nor would it have destroyed the state. Therefore, Your Honor, I appeal to all of you. Let us, if we make the law, make a completely different law that would secure the property of the state, make it pay and bring in Russians today, because there are only corneas and feet, and we give up our property, give Ukraine our property free of charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u145	Stanisław Mikolaiovich Nikolayenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u146	Nicolanca, Socialist Party, Hersonian. The authors raised an extremely difficult question today. I understand them because they saw that the only one left in Ukraine was the oil refinery that had the prospect of losing the owner of the state had lost this oil refinery and we would practically have nothing. So I understand that the authors of the law wanted somehow to find a way to preserve it even through privatization and so forth. At the same time, with the information that we've heard here and in Valentina Semenyuk, Mikaly Rudzkowski and other colleagues, we've seen that it's not that simple, because there are other options for saving this oil refinery. Yesterday we passed a law on municipal property management. Let's keep it state property. Let's save it for the property. 'Cause look, yesterday. Why was there such a disturbance in the session room yesterday? First of all, because a completely unbalanced privatization program has been prepared. It's not about that anymore. The talk is about privatization of strategic objects, oil, gas companies, shelters, military and industrial objects, and grain farms. See, the privatization of the APC has already been completed. We have been harvesting grains all over the world and all over Europe. The electricity was privatized by the sky, and we are now sitting with the candles in the winter. Now we're getting into the last fuel-oil materials that are being processed today in Ukraine. And what are the criteria for this privatization? Is it going to be for the benefit of any of our new hosts, or is it going to be for the benefit of our people? The discussion today showed, much less in this law and in these approaches. I'm saying, it would be most appropriate to keep it in state property. As far as this law is concerned, I think that if you even look at it, there's a question about it. For example, the first article. I don't think she's serious. All the definitions that are there, the package, the pretender is in another law, it needs to be removed because it is. That's not the theoretical basis you're developing. Article 7. Unspecified terms, such as when a decision to privatize is made by Kabin. You owe it there. Because he may not accept at all. Article 8. We write "there are 11 people formed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine." I think it would be a good idea to write "on a proportional basis" so it doesn't work out that, let's say, one side of the Supreme Council of Ukraine formed. So that it's on a proportional basis to be the representatives of the left, the right, so that you can do it in a transparent way. That's my approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u147	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the State Property Fund, Chechtev Mikhail Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u148	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs! A few theses. The first thesis is like an axiom. I am sure that the Supreme Council has always made, made, and will make faithful decisions in the interests of the State. Another thesis. The position of the fund in privatizing strategically important, unique enterprises is to be a very balanced approach to carefully diagnose the consequences of privatization. The third thesis. We are confident that in order to have an effect on the privatization of giant, unique objects of strategic importance to the economic and national security of the State, not only does a government decision require political support from the Supreme Council. If, in the case of the privatization of giant objects, the government or the State Property Fund receives an opponent in the face of the Supreme Council, and these opponents, through the media, prove that privatization is ineffective, we will disperse all investors, sell the business for no price, and cause damage to both the state and the business. So, I've said this before, and now, we support the approach of the people's deputies, when in privatizing unique objects, it can really be done through separate legislative acts, bills. And the privatization programme is about to develop sub-programmes that will be approved by the Supreme Council. Absolutely. So in this case, if a political decision is made, and not just an economic decision, but also a political decision regarding the privatisation of the Skritnafta object, I think it's appropriate to draft a separate bill. But here are two questions: making a political decision on privatization. If it is accepted, then the law must be drawn up. This is the position of the fund. And just a little trailer. There was this political statement, and I have a lot of respect for the national MP, and I don't want to call it his last name, even though he called it mine, but I'm going to give a professional comment. If a decision is taken in the Supreme Council, it may be criticized further, but if there are 226 votes, then the decision is taken! It's the same with the stockholders. Dividends are accounted for. Decisions are made by the majority. If we have 43 percent, most people make decisions to reinvest in business development and our 43 percent can't do that. So once again, if we make a political decision, we will support the proposal that privatization should be drafted by a separate bill and that the object should be privatized in a transparent manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u149	Thank you. Yeah, from the point of view of Andrew School. Ladies and gentlemen, let's make a deal with you whether we're going to continue to consider the question and if we're not going to be listening today, we're not going to be listening to it. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE "Crazy."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u150	So let's say the minute is Andrew School with motive and Vladimir Cherniak. That's it. And risk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u151	Thank you. Well, first of all, I'd like to point out that we said we were going to consider the law as a whole and we had to look at it as a whole. That's the first one. On the other hand, I would like to highlight this bill. The only thing we don't have the right to do is to leave Short Oil the way it is, because in whatever circumstances we don't make here, whatever political decisions we have here, whatever the head of the Holding Fund tells us, the Supreme Council decides everything here, it's not up to the Supreme Council, it's up to those who push it and demand to vote one way or the other, and then cheat it all on the Supreme Council. So please be careful. Mr. Chechatov. The other one. In this situation, we can leave it as it is, we have a responsibility to resolve something, because when we leave the situation on Skrtatnaft, as it is, maybe they will transfer the government's stock package -- 43 percent -- to the government, as it has always been, the government will hand it over, because it can't, it won't, it can't. And we have no right to let them in. So I would like to point out that if we don't adopt the proposed Law on the Form of Privatization, on the Privatization Aspects, then we will stop the plundering of the state. And I would say that this bill, in principle, in the first reading, we can support it, but only if, until the second reading, it goes through only in the future, when we stop the privatization vacchanal what both the Holding Fund and the Bank Fund offer us. We have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u152	Please, Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, this privatization is unacceptable because it is contrary to the national interests of Ukraine and national security. This is the only part of the government's property, the oil shares, we've completely built the oil sector. The State Property Fund continues, it's the last line we make. So let's not get involved in discussing this law plus and minus. This is about preventing this privatization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We will be appointed on the day of the vote. Let's move on to the Vulnerable. Please explain. The word is given to Yuri Carmazin, the next to Boris Bespallian.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u155	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! I want to turn to the shameful phenomena that, in my opinion, are impossible further in Ukraine, this is the closure of Ukrainian high schools. For example, this was done in the city of Donetsk. We received with you a vote in the name of Prime Minister Yanukovich was sent by my MP number 57, according to which the Ministry of Education and Science verified the illegal elimination of secondary school number 36 in the city of Donetsk. The Ministry then referred to the address of the Doña city head Lukyanka and the head of the Donetsk district administration of the Twin State, requiring that the first and second degree schools of general education be not closed at the Lenin district of Donetsk. However, these conditions have been ignored, causing resentment by parents and such denial of the constitutional right to educate their children in a national language. Dear national MPs, we live in the state of Ukraine. In Donetsk, there is no country in Donetsk today. And the fact that he went to the place of Deputy Prime Minister Tobacco and decided nothing is a disgraceful fact, especially after Prime Minister Janukovich's promise to all, absolutely in all the people on TV that the Ukrainian school will be preserved there. What, then, is the price of the Prime Minister of Ukraine's word? It costs nothing in Donetsk, it costs nothing in Ukraine -- that's what the Prime Minister of Ukraine says. Victor Fedorovich Janukovic: Victor Fedorovich, if you are not being heard in Donetsk, how will you then work as Prime Minister? Regrettably, the answers remained, in general, my address to the prosecutor of the Pshonka district. Perhaps the Attorney General of Piscoon forgot that he was the prosecutor, not Kuchmenistan, but Ukraine? Perhaps he forgot that the Constitution must be followed, perhaps he forgot that there are rights of Ukrainian citizens and should be respected. Kids from 36th grade are sitting at home today. They don't go to school. Is this an extraordinary event or is it not? As it is, in the 13th year of independence, people have to demand the right to speak the language of the nation and learn that language at all. Is this not a violation of international conventions by Ukraine? So, dear friends, in my opinion, in this case, a criminal case must be brought against the officials of the Donetsk City Administration. I'm pointing out that on August 31st, Peter Poroshenko, at the commission of Victor Yushchenk, a Ukrainian-speaking high school was opened in Bendera, where more than 50 percent of the Ukrainian population lives, and in Donetsk we can't provide Ukrainian education, because we don't have Ukrainian authority. I ask you to respond to the leadership of the Supreme Council, you, Hennadi Andriyovich, please, you were also in the Donetsk district prosecutor, I ask you to call Pshonka to account, I ask you to put him in the position of Attorney General and put him on the post of mayor of Donetsk. For when we come to power, I promise him that he will sit under guard for this crime he has committed against the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u156	I'd like to respond immediately and say so. As for Ukraine as a state, it exists throughout the territory. As for patriotism, it is no smaller in Donetsk than in other areas. Yuri Anatolyevich, please ask. Those students in 36th grade don't speak Ukrainian. Please tell me, what is this Ukrainian school?Oh, my God! Are the school’s employees responsible for their actions? Let us be careful about what we say. Please, Boris Bespali. The next Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u157	I ask you to give my word to John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u158	Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine and Ukrainian citizens. I am addressing you as one of the founders of the Ukrainian State, calling for the protection of Ukraine's sovereignty from its own power. For six months now, the ruling authorities have been promoting agreements for the creation of a single economic space in Ukraine, Russia, Belarus, and Kazakhstan. In the last days, Medvedchuk and the workers led by Tihypk joined this choir. What do we know about the content of these agreements that are really waiting for us if they are signed and implemented? If you listen to the native parents of these agreements -- President Leonid Kuchma, Mikola Azarov, and their oligarchic environment -- from the Hard Ukraine Party and the SDPU Party -- there is nothing left for the Ukrainians to do about it and to stop supporting the work of power in creating this space, because it's kind of very convenient for Ukraine, it's going to contribute to economic development and the growth of the welfare of the citizens. Actually, it's different, it's not. Not so much because it is hard to believe that those who steal grain have been torn apart by peasants in the harvest year and put the people at risk of famine who raise fuel prices during harvesting. Could the people who destroyed the country offer a people-friendly externally political project -- never. Not so because this project is accompanied by an open, cynical, insidious lie about the content of the agreements by the President of Ukraine, Mikli Azarov, and their environment. They are deliberately deceiving you when they say that their purpose in signing these agreements is to create a free trade zone, that Ukraine will not take part in the creation of a super-government governing body, nor will it transfer to Moscow officials the sovereign functions of the Ukrainian State. That the signing of these agreements does not overwhelm the European choice of Ukrainians or undermine Ukraine’s entry into world trade. It will not limit the country’s legal personality in the international arena. And the problem is that these free trade agreements only mention the main objective of the agreements, and the main objective of the agreements is to create a customs union under the mythical name "One Economic Space", which is actually a political economic union, which is not possible without losing much of the sovereignty of Ukraine. The covenants specifically state that a superstate body would be created, that Ukraine would pass on part of its sovereign rights. This is one of the provisions of article 4 of the covenant. The EP bodies are established on the basis of the interconnection of inter-State elements and the principle of handing over parts of the powers of the parties to the single regulatory body with a gradual increase in the value of the latter. That is why it is a problem that these agreements will limit Ukraine’s international legal personality, for they oblige the Ukrainian State to pursue in this space the only external trade, money, credit, and monetary financial policy, article 1 of the Agreement. That's the problem with signing these agreements stifling Ukraine's Euro-Integration Policy and trying to join the WTO. Because this union is formed on a solid basis. At the same time, it is not possible to be in two solidarity alliances between the EP and the EEU. All of these warnings are shared by all the uninvolved experts and journalists and, above all, the three leading ministries of government: the Ministry of Economics, Foreign Affairs and Justice. The conclusions of these three ministries clearly state that the treaties initialled by Azar to create a customs union with a state regulator that is directly in conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine and Ukraine’s international commitment will limit Ukraine’s international legal personality, undermine Ukraine’s accession to the WTO and the EU. With these conclusions, the Cabinet of Ministers agreed at its September 10th meeting and unanimously decided on the preparations.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u159	Ivan Alexanderovich, how much time do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u160	You beat me up and took 25 seconds. With these conclusions, the Cabinet of Ministers agreed at its meeting, which took place on September 10th and unanimously decided to prepare detailed warnings by Ukraine to the agreement and the concept of creating a single economic space, in accordance with these warnings, to prepare proposals for changes to these agreements. The same is true of President Leonid Kuchma and Mikola Azarov's propaganda of social Democrats and the "Trouble Ukraine" as if the benefits of these agreements were for the Ukrainian economy, in particular by claiming that the creation of this economic space would allow energy to be purchased in Russia at lower prices. But that's never going to happen, because under market conditions, the price of Russian prices is getting closer to world prices when energy trade is in private hands, no one is going to sell us oil or gas at lower prices. And all of these things don't matter. Everyone forgot that Russia was selling energy to Ukrainians and seven years ago, and now at prices higher than the world's. We have such a short memory that we forgot, like six months ago, Belarus’s President Alexander Lukashenko screamed that Russians were selling energy at world prices to Belarusians, even though Belarus was in union with Russia. When the Ukrainian economy does not have a full structure, when the internal market is not formed on its own produce, free movement of goods and labour will destroy Ukrainian production, which has already begun to come to life. And this situation is going to be the worst for Donbas, a region with a heavy industry. Will it, for example, withstand competition with Cuban Donbas coal? No, of course not. And what will be the national budget for transporting Russian cargo or transporting Russian energy when transport tariffs are substantially reduced? I am no longer saying that these agreements will create additional possibilities for the capture of Ukraine by millions of migrants from Asia. And the trouble is that the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, were preparing these deals in the Thieves. The entire process of negotiation was secreted, closed to its people. The draft agreements were not publicized, the objectives were obscured. This process was deprived of any publicity, although these agreements directly affect the sovereignty of Ukraine. All of this tells us that the leaders of the Ukrainian State have started the process of integrating the Ukrainian economy into Russian by covering up discussions about the creation of a common integration economic space, the process of smooth elimination of Ukrainian statehood. And they are aware of this choice, which was seen during a cabinet meeting last Wednesday. Every minister realizes that. These agreements halt economic growth in Ukraine, torpedo Ukraine's Euro-Atlantic integration efforts, weaken the position of those officials in the Cabinet of Ministers and ministries that adhere to European policy. The signing of these agreements by the President of Ukraine or by his commission to someone else will mean Yalta-2 for the whole of Europe. This means that the ruling Ukrainian authorities have agreed that the eastern borders of democratic Europe will go through the western borders of Ukraine. The preparation and signing of these covenants indicates that the ruling authorities went to trade with the sovereignty of Ukraine to prevent democracy from being allowed, to preserve their positions, and to be able to steal national goods for another year. But they, the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, the ministers, I conclude, should know that signing these agreements is a national treachery that will have to be paid sooner or later and harder. I want to remind them of a few pages in Ukrainian history. Not only were the patriots of Ukraine formed by the U.N.R. were destroyed in the Russian Soviet Empire in the early 20th century. But those Communists who then traded Ukrainian sovereignty, according to the Ukrainian poet Dmitr Pavlick, "were shot, like horses, no longer fit for draw." That is why I warn and urge the President and the government not to sign these agreements. At the same time, I urge all citizens to condemn and oppose such efforts of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u161	Ivan Aleksandrovitch, do you realize that you are taking time from your colleagues or not? Well, at least apologize to them. Please, Shurma. I'm asking you, everyone, you don't have to say for the factions there, for each deputy, for the individual MP there. Sourma, please, a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u162	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I prefer to call on listeners who today listen to what is happening in the Supreme Council, and I would like to draw attention to the following. I understand the emotion of the previous speaker, his 12-year-old desire to bring Ukraine together in one piece. I especially remember how he was able to bring together a political party. But as for the united Social Democrats. First of all, please read carefully the statement of the Social Democrats, which speaks of. That we support the idea of creating a single economic space, provided that this does not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine and does not threaten the territorial integrity of Ukraine. [[United]] And please, the previous speaker, Mr. Hare, do not mislead the audience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u163	The word is given to Alexei Igor Viktorovich. We don't need to mention individual deputies, separate factions. You don't have to do this. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u164	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich! Dear fellow national MPs! In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Status of People's Deputy, the Supreme Council Rules, I would like to announce the creation of an interfractional parliamentary association with African countries and the economic union. The full title of this association is the “Deputy Union of Cooperation with African Countries and the Economic Union of the Eastern Gates. ” As part of this union today, there are 18 deputies from 8 MP factions and MPs, and it is open to cooperation. Thank you for your attention and, using your opportunity, ask for the rest of the time to pass on to my colleague John Mihovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u165	Please, Ivan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u166	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction. Dear Chairman! Colleagues! Voters! Today, almost all regions of Ukraine are experiencing socio-economic life. Especially the situation on Zacarpatta. It's enough to say that the volume of industrial production here in the 1990s has decreased by 20 times, the agricultural output rejected by 30-50 years ago, the district budget has decreased by 19 times. And most importantly, my countrymen are being tricked and cynically deceived at every turn. Foreign and incoming plots are looting forests, mines, useful mines because of the upheaval. Yes, hundreds of hectares of unique land near the villages of Zbin and Pashkovec are syngorama for Medvedchuk. The most advantageous manufacturing facilities, hotels, sanatoriums, Carpathian pearls, such as Lake Sinai, are transferred to foreign property in Shahrai. Soon the Aborigines will be collecting mushrooms, berries, and medicinal plants nowhere. As the bourgeois system of the 1930 ’ s, there is famine, pestilences of despair. One of the reasons for the Carpathian tragedy is that since 1994 she has declared her responsibility as the authority of the SDPO. Today, it is run by its dignitary, John Rizak, by the sixth governor. Without the necessary knowledge, experience, and moral rights, he has the best interests of the Medvedchuk-Surkiv clan. Dirty technologies, administrative resources, political censorship, and all other measures are used to do this. In Mukachev, there was a physical dispute over the opposition. Under these conditions, the patient Carpathians lose their hope of power, are distraught in the state and in the party, seek protection in neighbouring countries, about 300,000 of them are disbelieving abroad, over 100,000 have filed claims for foreign Hungarian status, and 14,000 have permanently left Ukraine. Humiliated, discriminated fellow countrymen ask for help at the World Congress of the Russians, the OSCE, and other international organizations, some of which are perceived by the illusion of autonomous territorial autonomy. Today’s district management has led to its complete inability to solve pressing problems, and it has completely discredited itself. Carpathians do not want to be slaves to the Chinese oligarchs and local fats. The public needs to strengthen the leadership of the area, to set up order, and to provide assistance in order to get the Carpathians out of a depressive state on a permanent course of development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u167	Please don't mention or insult your colleagues. Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u168	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! I would like to sharpen your attention, especially now that Ukraine has practically signed or pushed to sign this EP. I'd like to remind you of a recent story. Two months ago, there was something that could never have been imagined. 11 valiant Moldovan border guards crossed Ukraine’s sovereign territory and captured an object of national importance. It's protected, it's an object, it's an object of strategic environmental importance. And it means Dnistrovska GAES and the watershed of Dniestrówska GAES. This dam was built in the distant 89th year, and that's when it cost the people of Ukraine, then it cost one billion rubles. One billion rubles, that's somewhere next to each other, is one billion dollars. Eleven Moldovan border guards decided to transfer this billion dollars to their country. No, well, they can be condemned here, of course, they can be supported, but the fact remains. And what I liked most was the situation that had taken place in the course of these events. The Head of the Dniestrovsky GAES calls the Chernobyl Security Service and says: You know, 11 armed people are taking over the facility. I have armed guards. What am I supposed to do? The answer was to watch. And it's being observed by this time. Here we can discuss for a very long time whether property is properly privatized or not, how much we get for it, how much we don't get. But the best way is really Moldovan way of privatizing. He is the simplest, the cheapest, and the most advantageous, because Ukraine will still remain silent. And that was exactly what was being injected into the body of the Ukrainian state. It didn't bend to what it said about paralysis. And that's why now what's going on with EEP is the direct result of what's happening on Dniestrovsky GAES. It's criminal inaction, the criminal negligence of all relevant security forces. And to all the questions I ask, this is all in line with current legislation, because a delimitation agreement has been made between Ukraine and Moldova, so far no demarcation has been made. But remember that in 1981 an agreement was made between Ukraine, the Ukrainian RSR, and the Moldovan RSR for the transfer of these lands, 18.5 hectares, to Ukraine’s complete and lasting rule. And no one canceled that act, no one denounced it in either Ukraine or Moldova. Even if Moldova were denounced, it would be a unilateral denunciation, which is unacceptable in international law. So once again, I emphasize that signing is, because it's a direct result of taking over the territory of Ukraine, and most of all, it's a complete silence of all, virtually, without the exception of political forces, factions of Parliament and individual people's deputies. We've been talking about this process, and so the very logical consequence is the offer of the EP. If you can give away a small portion of Ukrainian nationality, you can give it all away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u169	Vladimir Puzakov, next John Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u170	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. Many voters, after reading Leuk Lukyanenko's works "Marshal Žukov and Ukraine in World War II", have come to my attention as a Ukrainian national deputy, and have concluded that this is a gruesome lie and a lie from the first to the last line. This is a lie against a man whose leadership is recognized throughout the world. He has made an invaluable contribution to the victory of the Soviet people in the Great Homeland War, to the liberation of mankind from fascism. They also say that in your brochure you rely not on facts, but on subjective evidence of individuals, haters of Soviet power, some of whom may have been wronged by Joukov for failing to serve. Everyone knows that Zhukov was a strict, hard but just warrior who did not tolerate military incursions and had no right to leave the commanders of the indecisive and unprepared to make decisions at critical moments of military action on the front. Such commanders had to be punished or removed from office. These are the ones who were wronged and gave you food for your brochure. Dear colleague Levo Lukyanenko, you may understand, you have spent many years in prison for yours, as you have thought, and you have seen the fair actions that life has shown, not to the independence of Ukraine, but to the total loss of its independence. You also write in the brochure, "I believe in God and Ukraine," and you do not act by divine commands, fueling hatred of Russia in the minds of Ukrainians. You use the word "Moscow" in hate tone almost every page several times. What about one of the commandments: "Love your neighbor as yourself"? For example, the result of such an attitude toward the Russians. In Kirovograd last year, a book by Roman Koval was presented. The audience was simply impressed by his statement. He openly advised that, unfortunately, the Ukrainians had lost their hatred of the Moscals, and that feeling must be revived urgently in every Ukrainian. Fortunately, as the same Coval put it, we still have real Ukrainian Cossacks who have not lost their hatred for mosquitoes. And he gave an example of a Pyrog who organized in the tambourine the beating of an elderly man just because he distributed the newspaper "Communist". Speaking of this, Koval demonstrated three punches in the air to an imaginary communist. The writer then introduced the very “hero” — Pyroga, a viewer who described his background and assured that such fighting groups were already being established in several parts of the Kirovograd region. [[& Tiles]] This is a frank resurgence of fascism on Ukrainian soil. And many voters say, "that's probably what Mr. Lukyanenko should take care of, not violate the name of a well-deserved general." In general, it is immoral to break the name of someone who has long since passed away and who is unable to protect himself from slander. And you use it, but it's not divine. What, then, is your faith in God worth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u171	Ivan Sergiyovich Boki. And the next Vladimir Leschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u172	John Boki, the Socialist faction. I want to remind everyone in Ukraine, especially the Chinese, that 16 numbers have passed three years since the black day when, under the command of the highest officials of the state, George Gongadze was assassinated. At 6: 30 p.m. on Tuesday at the Mayan of Independence, a George Gongadze Memorial will be held in Kiev, and I call on the Socialist Party of Ukraine and all the opposition forces to attend this rally, to which the road of Ukraine belongs. And Ukraine must be on the road to all of us today, because I'm not saying it for any reason there is evil or anything, but I'm saying with full responsibility that the preparations for the anti-constitutional, anti-State rebellion in Ukraine are about to begin, and that the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine Mikola Bilokon in the Department of Internal Affairs and the presentation of the new Head of Internal Affairs in the city of Dnipropetrovsk. I'm just going to remind you of certain things that conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine and with the laws of Ukraine, which the Lieutenant General was talking about with permission to say the Bilocon. This is what he called in the rank of Minister of Interior: "I believe, I believe, and I will believe that the police cannot stand outside the political processes of the state." This means involving a force structure in an internal political struggle. But those words, you say, they don't quite fit what I said. But keep looking. "Militation will not remain outside the presidential pre-election process and political reform." You imagine the police will be involved in political reform and will be preparing elections. As she prepared the election, we already know. Then he's named the new head of management in Dnipropetrovsk, came a man of the system. What system? President Kuchma admitted that we had an increase in power with criminality, and this is, in fact, today the face of the political system of Ukraine. So, General Bilocon calls on the police to protect this criminal system that has increased with criminality? And he keeps saying, "If not with us, against us." And so on and so forth, to blow up the opposition and so forth. The regime is not a state, the regime cannot be, not even the face of the state. The police are called on to protect, not the state, but the regime. And General Bilocon is essentially calling for the protection of this regime. Biloquine has demonstrated the creation of a police state that is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, contrary to any democracy at all. He has challenged democracy. And I think that the President of Ukraine, who recently appointed Bilocona, if he doesn't withdraw him from this position, will only confirm that the Bilocon is simply following his instructions and that under the patronage of the President of Ukraine, an anti-government, anti-constitutional rebellion begins. And the announced reform is all lies and cover for the coup d'etat in our Ukraine. I urge everyone to come to Kiev on Tuesday at 6.30 p.m. on the Independence stage and protest the anti-government rebellion that begins in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u173	Please, Vladimir Leschenko, next Paul Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u174	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Nigga. Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. Today I want to touch the issue of health care for the majority of the people of Ukraine. Article 49 of the Constitution clearly states: “In public and municipal health institutions health care is provided free of charge” and so on. In practice, however, even after confirmation by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of what it means for free, there is no need to pay, in any hospital, when the patient has crossed the threshold, they ask, "Is there money?'none. They won't cure. Millions of such examples. I'll give you one of them. Letter I, Minister of Health of Podajev. I was personally contacted by Borzny, a disabled person in the first group, Kosharny Sergey Mikolaiovich, born in 1967. Two years ago, in a fire under the Cremenchug, he received strong burns and became disabled. During the time that followed, he was treated in various medical facilities. Now he needs more qualified medical attention. Taking into account the young age of Kosharnoy, I ask you to address the issue of his treatment at one of Kiev's specialized medical facilities. The Deputy Secretary of State of the Order's Ministry responded on May 15th. "The Ministry of Health has considered your request. The Ministry of Health in the Chernigiv region is given an appropriate mandate. If necessary, the patient will be sent to a professional institution at the expense of the budget." A letter to Second Minister Podajev because nothing was done. It's been 2.5 months, but I didn't get a message. The patient does not need help. Please resolve the question positively. Without waiting for an answer, the National Deputy of Ukraine's assistant consultant electrically takes the patient from Borzny to Kiev and arranges to hospitalize him in the care centre of Kiev City Hospital No.2. The doctors felt sorry for him. Reply from the Deputy Minister of Health of Zagradny "The Ministry of Health has re-examined your appeal. Sick Kosharny is currently in the care center of Kiev City Hospital No.2. And so on. The question is controlled." At this time, the hospital is billing for the cost of Kosharna’s treatment for 8,000, 70, 97 dollars. Where does the ministry promise to treat the patient at the expense of the budget? Kosher’s mother was afraid that the house would be taken for treatment and asked questions about his termination. In this regard, I am again addressing the minister of health. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! After all, give help to Kosharny's disabled. And for the Ukrainian national deputies, I'll say the following. Health care is also a matter of internal politics. Rather, let us mold them so that our people do not die because of emptiness. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u175	Paul Matthew. Kirilenko's next. Viacheslav Kirilenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u176	Paul Matvienko, 66 Corstońsk constituency, European Choice Group, National Economic and Social Development Party of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The state of affairs in improving the fate of areas affected by the Chernobyl disaster forces me to ask you again to come back to the matter. We are told that the effects of the Chernobyl disaster on the population and today are one of the urgent needs in Ukraine. What, then, will result in a steady, permissive load on people living in a polluted territory? It is known that all the inhabited areas of Korostensk, Luginsk, Ovrusk, and Narodicke Districts of the Žitomir region are in a zone of radioactive pollution and are located in the forestic area of northern Polissy Ukraine. The buildings in the settlements are mostly garden-type areas that are fueled by local fuels, or wood that is explicitly banned in radiation-polluted zones. The paradox is that we've been talking for 17 years about minimizing the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, and at this time the population of polluted areas uses hundreds of thousands of meters of radioactive wood each year for heating and cooking. At the same time, in recent years there has been virtually no work on gasification. And these are the figures: in the Corostene region, out of 108 locations, the gas is raised to 5 locations, in the Lugina region, out of 50 locations, 4 gas stations are gassed, out of 158 gas stations are gassed, out of 50 locations, and in the People's District. It turns out that in all the years, less than 9 percent of the population has been gassed by the Chernobyl programme. In addition, special attention should be paid to the gasification of the cities of Korostyn and Ovrc. The 17th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. The experience of overcoming” approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 15 May 2003 recommended that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine develop and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act on the Comprehensive Social and Economic Development of Areas which were exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the accident at the Chernobyl AES and the places of compact relocation for 2002-2005, as well as for the period until 2010. In my opinion, the priority in this program is to address the gasification of population sites in radioactively polluted areas. In addition, the recommendations indicated that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, when drafting the Ukrainian National Budget Act for 2004 would provide for the allocation of budget funds for the implementation of the Chernobyl Building Program in the amount of 122,3 million dollars. In connection with this proposal, I ask you to allocate 10 percent of this in 2004 to gasification of the urban areas affected by radioactive pollution in the Gitomir region. I have made appropriate calls to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Emergency Situations of Ukraine, as well as to the Žitomir Observatories. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u177	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko. Next Red One.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u178	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of Our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. The possible signing of an agreement on the creation of a single economic space in the form of Russia, Kazakhstan, Ukraine and Belarus will mean the end of Ukraine's existence as a full, independent state and the collapse of its European perspective. Despite the secrecy with which President Kuchma and the government are trying to avoid accountability to their own people, and the government's unwillingness to report to Parliament this issue, the text of a document that Leonid Kuchma intends to sign on September 18 in Yalta has already become known to the general public. Its main purpose is to bring together the customs spaces of the four states, the only fiscal, monetary and financial policies, i.e., the loss of national currency, bracelets, and its replacement with rubles; the implementation of a single policy in the field of tariff regulation and so forth. [[Article 1 of the project]] The management of the economic space of four countries will be a joint commission in which the number of votes of each side will be determined by taking into account its economic potential. That is, the absolute majority of the votes will belong to Russia, and Ukraine will not be able to resist the decisions made in Moscow, which, according to the same agreement, will be binding upon all the authorities of the state of Ukraine. By signing and ratifying the EC Treaty, Ukraine will virtually place a cross on integration into the European Union, the World Trade Organization and other organizations, and will forever lose the opportunity to be part of the family of free and wealthy European peoples. We have always advocated and advocated an equal relationship with Russia and other Post - Soviet republics. But no one allowed the country’s superiors to overturn the historic choice made by the Ukrainian people in 1991 and confirmed by the Constitution and national legislation. In this regard, the Ukrainian People’s Party demands. First. From Deputy Prime Minister Azarov to withdraw his signature under the draft documents on the creation of the EP. The other one. From the Prime Minister and the President of Ukraine to release Mikola Azarov from government positions, as he, as a person responsible for the European integration of Ukraine, not only does he not contribute but he actively prevents this integration. The President is to refuse to sign an agreement on the creation of the EP. It's from the Attorney General's Office to file a criminal case based on the facts of treason and abuse of power or official office and bring the guilty officials to justice. [[Article 111, 364 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine]] We also invite the Attorney General to consider, on the basis of the legality of the statement made by the leader of the Labour Ukraine, Tihypak, in which we consider blackmailing the senior authorities, namely ministers, with a view to reviewing the position of their ministries with regard to the signing of the EC Treaty. We are reminded that article 17 of the Constitution provides that the protection of Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity are the most important functions of the State and the affairs of the entire Ukrainian people. In the event of signing, we will call upon the people, the public to defend their sovereignty by all means possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u179	Basil Red. The next one is Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u180	Basil Red, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! This Sunday, September 7th, 1,000 Ukrainian patriots gathered in the village of Novi Zagorov in the Lokachin region of Volina under the destroyed walls of the former monastery, where as a result of a three-day battle with German-Fashistic invaders. As a result of a three - day battle, 540 German invaders and their Polish gendarmes were destroyed. The battalion, as well as 700 wounded. The battle lasted three days. As a result of this fight, 29 heroes of Ukraine were killed in the 43rd. In this battle against the Cossacks of the Ukrainian Insurgency, aviation, tanks, and mortars were used. I was fortunate enough, along with five Ukrainian national deputies from the Ukrainian People’s Party, to be there and listen to those men who fought with guns in their hands and not on the stove fighting for the will and independence of Ukraine against German, Bolshevik, and Polish invaders. What do these people ask of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? They ask few of them to recognize them as fighters for Ukraine's will and independence. Ironically, those who organized famines, deportations, collectiveizations, burned villages in Volina, as did the red guerrillas, for example, use all the benefits and have huge pensions. For help, during the war. In the region of Chevrin, more than 1,000 battles were fought with Germans. Poles are practically none. The Bolsheviks were 2-3 fighting and they were running away from the Germans. That's the picture of war on Volina. Now those who fought against Ukraine’s Hero are rewarded by the Ukrainian state, medals, orders, large pensions, and those who actually put their lives behind Ukraine, who returned to Siberia with cripples, unfortunately have nothing. We introduced a bill, a group of national deputies, Red, Shirko and Alexyuk, number 3732. Sadly, though, he was not in the order of the day. I appealed to the Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania to give me the floor to introduce this bill on Tuesday or Thursday. Sadly, he did not give me that word. And so I ask you, for the purpose of civil reconciliation, which is proclaimed by the Communists, who I think wants all the Ukrainian society, to finally adopt this law out of four articles: first, to recognize the armed struggle of the Ukrainian rebel army on Ukrainian lands, I stress, because the UPA did not fight in foreign lands unlike other armies from 1940 to the mid-50s by the national-liberal struggle of the Ukrainian people for freedom and independence of Ukraine. Article 2: "Acknowledgment of the warring side in World War II of the Ukrainian insurgency of the army by resistance to the German occupation regime and the totalitarian regime of the former Soviet Union". Article 3: "Recognizance as veterans of the UPA Cossacks' Resistance, which during World War II and post-war years fought the armed struggle against the ruling regime for the creation of an independent Ukrainian state." And lastly, article 4: "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine ensure the adoption of the legislation necessary to implement this law." We should honor those people who make us sit under the dome of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and call ourselves the Ukrainian National Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u181	Vladimir Yavorowski, next Kalinczuk
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u182	Deplorable remnants of national MPs, respected people who have not yet lost confidence in the Supreme Council and listen to us yet. I supported everything in support of everything that Basil Red said, I wanted to say about three things. First of all, we've been looking at painful issues today, and psychologically, we've reflected on the attack of our oligarchs on the Kremenchuck factory. And I'll tell you one thing: just because there's a Yaroslavsky people's deputy there, just because I think it would be wrong to go back to that question at all. Second, I'm addressing people, our voters in the East, in the West, in the South, in the North, in the Center: 16 numbers, this is already said by John Boki, my colleague, three years of a terrible date, which is a disgrace to the Ukrainian authorities -- it's an disappearance, it's the murder of Georgia Gongadze. I very much ask you, people who have not lost their sense of dignity, their conscience, 16 numbers at 4:30 a.m. to light candles in their home or in their windows. Ukraine lost a courageous, beautiful, courageous knight, and lost him, as we can say, at the hands of power. I want to bow my head to Mrs. Gongadze, Lesei, in front of this woman, who has been unable to perform her most sacred motherly duty for three years, is the Christian custom of burying her child. And third, what I'd like to say. Before my colleagues from "Our Ukraine" were touched here, and not only from "Our Ukraine," it's an attempt to betray national interests and sign the Agreement on the Only Economic Space. I want our people to understand one more thing. A great friend of the Ukrainian State of Montenegro once said, "My life has been in the atmosphere of oil and gas." So I can say that my life has been in an atmosphere of constant fear of the day of the announcement of the Ukrainian State that we will lose it. But we lasted 12 years. The question is, why, right now, when we should even forget about that question: whether or not we should be the Ukrainian State, why is it now? So, guess what, from my point of view, it's very simple. The President's office ends, he can't find himself a successor, he doesn't, he doesn't trust, I think, himself. Because of this, there is a chance today to leave Ukraine there, either in this Eurasian or pseudo-Jewish space. And after that, Russia will always be us, having the advantages that our colleagues have told us about, it will always say, "Don't touch this old man, let him live there," and so on. Because I want to say that there is no national interest in signing this. One of the only interests is to save Leonid Danilovich Kuchma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u183	Vasil Calinchuk. Please, Vasil Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u184	Thank you. Kalinczuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party, Odščina Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters. To the deputies of our faction, I am often approached personally by voters to pay off the debt from the compensation costs of the Chernobyl disaster. According to the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Population Protection, at the beginning of the year it was almost 650 million dollars, and the government budget was only 200 million dollars. In the Odessa region, for example, there are 11.5,000 citizens who have the status of suffering as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, including 3.5 thousand children and 2.3 thousand persons with disabilities. Every year, the number of disabled people is increasing, and the health of children has a steady tendency to worsen. At the same time, in the last three years, there has been a lack of timely and insufficient funding from the State budget of expenditure on the implementation of the State social policy for the social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl accident. For the Odessa region, 23 - 26 percent of the year’s needs are met, and debt increases each year. On January 1, 2003, it amounted to 25 million dollars. The particularly low level of financial health care and sanitary treatment for this category of benefits, the acquisition of medicines and medical equipment for specialised medical facilities that provide medical care to citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster is only 0.7 percent of the need. Housing 0.8 away from the year’s needs and so forth. In recent times, the number of lawsuits for late payments and payments has been alarmingly increasing. In order to prevent a rise in social tension. Deputy District Council members addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with the proposal to seek additional funds to pay off existing debt on the social payments of the listed categories of persons and to maximize for the Odessa region in the current year and at the adoption of the budget for the following year, the amount of subsidies from the state budget of Ukraine to provide state-guaranteed social benefits and to provide benefits to citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Sadly, this has been the case in the Plains and other regions. We hope that these issues will be considered by both the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and will be decided accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u185	Thank you, this is the first person to have a rule. Thank you, Vasil Antonovich. The word is given to Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. Next Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u186	Vladimir Cherniak, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Ukraine’s statehood and independence are under serious threat. Never before in years of independence has there been such a serious threat. Constitutional reform, so-called, and the agreement on the only economic space -- two components of the destruction of the Ukrainian state. Of course, changes to the Constitution should be made if necessary. But that version of constitutional reform that is proposed will lead to the complete disorganization of the system of government. If, God forbid, this project will be adopted by the Supreme Council, then by October 2004, the elections will be held under the new Constitution, in fact, at least, and the President can be elected by Parliament. If even he is elected nationally, the situation will still be ambiguous, because the President will already have the authority of others, the government will have the authority of the old ones who will appoint governors how this system of power will function, the President will be for a year and four months. Next. If the President is elected, Parliament. If the elected President is not elected by Parliament, the President-in-Office shall dissolve Parliament in three months. There will be no more Parliament. The president stays old, and they want what they want. He's running elections under his patronage. This is what happens if this happens. And the second threat is the agreement on the only economic space. I'm an economist, I'm a fan of normal, friendly relations with Russia, mutually beneficial. We don't have to spoil our relationship with Russia. But there's a limit that we can't go beyond. There's been a mix-up. Instead of asking questions about a free trade zone, liberalising trade with Russia, so that it does not destroy exporters with our tariffs, by now, ask the question of a single economic space, which includes a customs union, which includes a single currency in the future and which includes supra-State regulators of economic and social, political life, practically in Ukraine, which is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. We're in a collision. We were in a situation where we needed to find a way out. These are the two threats that exist, and we need to now think about how worthy, decent and with the prospect of statehood and independence to get out of this situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u187	Anatoly Orzhachowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u188	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues! While in the south of Ukraine, one day he found that our home was not well. In particular, agriculture. The reason for this is the destructive reforms of the President and the government in the agricultural sector, the irresponsibility of power to the people, the destruction of not only a permanent collective form of production, but also human morality. My last visit to the four regions of Hersonian just confirmed what I had said. The central authority's inaction confirmation is as follows. As a result of the difficult weather conditions in which the 2003 crop was formed, Hersonian farmers suffered losses of 310 million dollars. The vice-presidents of the District Council asked the President, the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers to consider the recognition of the Herson region as a disaster, but this and other statements by the district leaders were not taken into account. The government responded to the situation only as part of the implementation of the money - laundering mechanism. Areas affected by natural disasters, according to the Cabinet of Ministers Ordinance on Aiding Agricultural Farmers, which resulted in adverse weather conditions for wintering of winter grain crops in 2003, have been allocated 3.2 million dollars by means of a commercial bank lending mechanism. To implement the Cabinet of Ministers Decision on how to use the state budget's funds to carry out these actions in agriculture and the development of the agricultural market, it is possible to allocate 21.5 million dollars and 15 million dollars through a partial compensation mechanism for the cost of electricity used for irrigation. In general, the damage to the farm could have been 39.7 million dollars. That would be enough to fuel the village for two months. However, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agrarian Policy have approved mechanisms that make it impossible to obtain such funds. First of all, banks have been fined high interest rates for more than 21 percent of loans. Secondly, these loans cannot be prolonged by 2004 for the same reason. All of these loans are provided with all the material resources and it is impossible to get a new loan. Banks require the repayment of loans already taken and then the issuance of new loans. As a result, the sunflower is implemented to pay off the loans rather than to buy resources to carry out a complex of haystacks. So the Hersonian farmers only got 4.2 out of 39.7 million dollars. Today, autumn has begun in the area. If these costs are not paid, part of the farms will be bankrupt, and the owners of the land and property rations of these farms will be beggars. I demand immediate funding from these decrees, centralized government to buy fireflies, seeds, seeds. and the fertilizers and the peasants to sow the winter crops. On this point, I ask you to form a parliamentary request to the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u189	Thank you. Michael Bauer. Let's get out of here. There's no time. Come on, it's better this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u190	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, dear colleagues! I want to focus today on what is being done today in providing pedagogical personnel and especially in rural schools. At the beginning of the school year, there were 7,000 125 vacancies for teaching staff. Including 4 thousand 360, that's 62 percent, in the rural area. There are over 16,000 pensioners working, and 2.5 thousand employees working without education. I emphasize, no education. A situation may arise when the graduates of the same schools work. There is a real threat that all the reforming actions promoted by the Ministry of Education will not be performed by anyone. This problem needs to be solved in a comprehensive manner. Obviously, the main thing here is to raise wages. But it seems to me that today our government needs to take fundamental steps to improve the situation. In particular, one of them is to be sent to three years by university graduates who were trained at the expense of government funds. Such a standard existed before in our country, but it has been abolished today, and it needs to be introduced into the educational system. By the way, 14,000 of these graduates receive a pedagogical profession each year in the universities of our country, and only 1 out of 1 out of 1 out of 1 out of 2 students go to school, especially in rural schools. Secondly, it is necessary to create real conditions for the entrance to the teaching professions of rural youth. So we're going to take down the housing problem, we're going to form teaching dynasties. Taking these minor measures will contribute to perhaps improving the situation of teaching staff in the countryside. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u191	Kostinuk, please, Bogdan Kostinjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u192	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs!" A difficult socio-economic situation in Ukraine and mass unemployment have forced millions of Ukrainians to travel abroad in search of livelihoods. According to various sources abroad, there are between 5 million and 7 million Ukrainians. The vast majority of them are in an illegal position and are deprived of any social security. By the way, it's about different sources. Obviously, the relevant competent authorities have reliable information about the number of citizens outside our country. I believe it is necessary to report official data on the number of citizens abroad, which will make it impossible, inter alia, to manipulate the voter votes during future presidential elections, as was the case in the previous referendum of 2000. The country is left with the most productive part of the population, with a population of between 17 and 27 years of age as the main group of departures. The foreign - made dollars are covered with blood and then by new scrapers, and at that time children deprived of parental care are suffering at home. According to unofficial reports, such children are more than 103 thousand, yet no one is keeping clear statistics on the numbers of these children. Children live with their parents, and there are unique occasions when children live alone. Although the existence of this phenomenon in society does not recognize any social institution, no office, no branch, no sphere. After declaring official information about citizens living abroad, the State must take over every citizen of Ukraine for its protection, as well as taking care of the family, especially the children. The state must create the right conditions for the self-fulfillment of every citizen. As stated in article 3 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the establishment and protection of human rights and freedoms is the primary responsibility of the State. Therefore, State institutions should make every effort to implement the Constitution rather than replace it. It is the unwillingness of the Constitution to adhere to the presidential environment that has led to what is called constitutional reform. As a result, social and political polarization. In the second place, it's very good. social problems and low wage levels, and pensions, and grain crises, and the responsibility of the past government for serious calculations in agrarian politics, and the failures of the current government, and migration problems including foreign policy and other problems. Turning the public's attention away from the main one and pulling everyone into an artificial discussion is a long-known and well-worked way. It's a waste of time. Ukraine lost another year, which could become a year of real reform, including political reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u193	Sergei Volodymyrovich Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u194	Dear Chairman! I would like to remind you that according to the Rules, if there is a violation of parliamentary ethics during speeches, the presiding officer has the right to make observations. Now we've heard Yavorowski's deputy of the people's deputies who stayed in the hall call themselves the pitiful remnants. What do I think I did to break the MP's ethics? And by the way, after that, he left the hall without waiting for the session to end. Thus, by offending the people’s deputies and by demonstrating not the best act on his part. I'd like to ask you not to hear such things in this room. Because in this room there are, for example, the former Parliamentary Head of Ukraine Constantine Mercury Sitnik, distinguished national deputies Andrew School, Stanislav Phidenko, and many others. And the pitiful or pitiful MP is precisely the one who wants to speak cursingly. And Mr. Kostinyuk, who is today the only one representing the faction of "Our Ukraine," I ask that you hand over Karmazin, the second, only he has returned to something with his back, to carry out the educational work on the faction with Mr. Yavorowski, so that he can choose the words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-12-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, we express each other's political thoughts, but really, let's be more tolerant of each other. Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. The plenary meeting will begin at 10 a.m. on September 16th. Good luck.
