ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:38]] Registered -436 There are 436 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations we have 30 minutes to announce requests, statements, messages and proposals by national MPs. Please sign up for statements, messages and suggestions. In the meantime, if there's no objection, I'm going to announce the parliamentary questions that have come. Is there no objection? On board, please, the names of the national MPs who signed up for the performance. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Groups of national deputies Burjak, Olujko, Novik, Shandra, only 10 deputies, to the President of Ukraine on the state of construction of energy cloud number 2, the separate unit of the Hmelni nuclear power station, at the count of 30, and the development of a 30km zone. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:05]] For the 320. Supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:05:28]] For-286 Decision taken. People’s Deputies — Semenyuk, Pavlovsky, Bondarenko — only five deputies to the President of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv City Council on the rightfulness, the justification for building a high - altitude building in the Marien Park of Kiev. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:03]] For 155 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:06:26]] For-149 The decision is not taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the grounds that he was not allowed to examine the facts of the illegal release of workers of the Hmělnické Entrepreneurship "Wzutex". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:57]] For-137 Decision taken. John Stojko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the demand of the Ambassador of the Russian Federation to hold a press conference held on September 26 in Ukraine, the language of another state, and the threat to the journalist of the newspaper "For Free Ukraine". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:34]] For 122 Decision taken. Bogdan Kostinuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the lack of funding for the benefits to the citizens of the region of Ivano-Franco, who had suffered from an accident at CHAES. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:02]] For-174 Decision taken. Anatolia Ástovajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the closure of a children's hospital in Torres County. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:30.]] For 176 Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with his dissatisfaction with the request for the acquisition of a legal owner of a house in Hmelnicki, which was on the balance sheet of the South-West railway’s Žmerinian distance. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:03]] For 121 Decision taken. Stepan Cloud to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the verification of the violation of the constitutional right of Ukrainian citizens to education relating to the issuance of diplomas of an unestablished model at the Odessa National Law Academy. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:44]] For a hundred and Decision taken. People’s Deputies — Burjak, Olujko, Novak, Shandra, only ten deputies — to the Prime Minister and Ukraine to build the power grid number two separate units of the Hmeln nuclear power station and the development of a 30 - mile [30 km] zone. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:18]] For 245 Decision taken. Vladimir Yeshchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of municipal services to residents of the village of Pishtane in the region of Cherka. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:48]] For-123 Decision taken. Vasil Onopenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of constitutional principles for the exercise of justice as a result of the underfunding of Ukraine's judicial system. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:16]] For-182 Decision taken. Mikli Anischuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the cessation of the irrational use of the Agrolis forest. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:43]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Vladimir Sovkovic to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Head of the Anti-Monopoly Committee on Anti-Governmental and Anti-National Policy of the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine, which is the financing of foreign labour at budget costs. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:20]] For 148 Decision taken. Alexander Golub to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the violation of legislation in the privatization and sale of the cattle carnage in the city of Yagotin Kyiv region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:50]] For-146 Decision taken. Michaela Rodionova to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violating the procedures for examining citizens’ claims by the authorities of the city of Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:17]] For 131 Decision taken. Vitalia Šibka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the grounds of dissatisfaction with the answer to the question of the fact that there is an obstacle to parliamentary activity and the provision of false information to the Ukrainian national deputy. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:46]] For 135 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the situation that arose in the post office of the Kirovograd region as a result of the unbalanced decisions and actions taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the management of the Pension Fund. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:17]] For the 110. Decision taken. Mikoli Shershun to the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in delaying the Ministry's financial obligations to the state-owned firm, Rinethorf. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:50]] For-129 Decision taken. Mikli Onichuk to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the inadequacy of the establishment of a six-day school week in general educational institutions. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:20.]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Raisy of Bogotyrov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the state of state funding in the area of culture in Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:47.]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Oleg Grachev is with the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the provision of protocols on access to markets in goods and services with members of the World Trade Organization. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:17]] For 104 Decision taken. Anatolia Kozlovski to the first Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the financing of youth programs in the Mikolai region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:43]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Minister of Fuel and Energy for the negligence of the shareholders of the Kirovogradoblanergo company in the reception of the residential house in Kirovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:15]] For a-117. Decision taken. Vassila Bartkiv to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for hearing aids for children with hearing disabilities in the village of Obolona in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:44]] For-119 Decision taken. Vladimir Lechchenka to Deputy Prime Minister Dmitr Tobacco on the procedure for calculating the teaching internship for obtaining retirement for years. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:12]] For a-117. Decision taken. Jaroslav Kendzior to the State Tax Administration, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the facts set out in the article "Taxes smell criminal" by journalist Yuri Lukanova, published in the newspaper Ukraine Young on July 12, 2003. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:47]] For-142 Decision taken. All the parliamentary requests that have come have been voted on. Let's go directly to the national MPs with statements, information, queries, messages. The word is Omelyan Maupuk, a faction of Communists. Prepare Alexander Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u2	I'd like you to give Simon Volodymyr Dmitrovich, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u3	Please. National MP Simonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u4	Vladimir Simonov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear National Deputies! Honorable Predestination! I want to inform you about what happened in Ternopolis on September 26th in the district center, in Ternopolis itself. How do you know that the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to abolish the benefits raised pensioners, veterans, other layers to protect their rights. And when the veteran organization, the Chernobyls, the pensioners, the disabled, the Afghans went to the district administration's house, the nursing facility was already occupied by young men from the local Trident organization Stephen Bandera. When they got in the ring under the command of the megaphone, they shouted indecency and did not miss people on the site. For all the announcements of veterans, Chernobylers, to be able to express their demands to power, to the government administration, which, by the way, also went out on this course, this parked underage did not allow -- otherwise it was certainly impossible to call them, because they were boys of an age -- they responded by shouting, chanting, "Get!'Glory to Ukraine!"The hero of glory!"Mixed to speak to veterans, Chernobylers, pensioners. And today I am addressing the head of the veteran organization of Ukraine, General of the Army, John Alexanderovich Gerasimov. Dear John Alexanderovich, you know, the veterans weren't drugged. These older people, when they put their shoulders up, moved this skin, pushed it out of place. I have to tell you that they were heroic. Sadly, this did not end. During the talks, these young boys began throwing eggs with screaming, hatching, and refusing to speak to the heads of the State Administration. And just by the intervention of the police, their actions have blocked these lewd young men from the Trident organization called Bandera. But the scream, the noise continued. And I'm asking the question: who prepared them, who sent them in advance to these kids, this spana, excuse me, otherwise it can't be called, for the older generation, for the veterans, for the pensioners and the disabled? Who poured vodka on them in the morning and bribed them, who shoved chicken eggs in their pockets, throwing them into veterans? Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am addressing the Minister of Internal Affairs of Bilokon. Why didn't they get ahead of it because they knew Trident was getting ready for provocation? The explanation that you could blame the police in this case as if force were applied. That's not entirely true, that's not true. What did these young men have to wait for? I ask that the Minister of Internal Affairs take appropriate measures to take these actions. I'm addressing Attorney General Piscoon. Why is this organization military? Why does this organization assign the rank of lieutenant colonels and colonels? What is it? We've got a new army? What Is Wrong With the Law? Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I appeal to you that this was my question. And I want an answer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u5	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepare Ponomarenko. I ask the honourable colleagues to abide by the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u6	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Baranowski May I have a word with you, Alexia of Malinov?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u7	Alexei Malinowski. I ask you, fellow officers, to abide by the Rules so that I do not allow the microphone to be turned off.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u8	Dear radio listeners, distinguished colleagues! Alexei Malinowski, Socialist faction, Cherkaschina By order of the faction, I am authorized to state the following. The continued increase in drug use throughout Ukraine has today become a feature of the national disaster, and the global problem is confirmed by its de facto exit from the control of the relevant services and bodies in most regions of the state. The number of drug users found by the Ministry of Health in Ukraine exceeds two hundred thousand rubies, and international experts estimate that the actual number of drug addicts in our country exceeds two million. The inaction of law enforcement structures and, as a result, the increase in drug trafficking has already led parents to fear of leaving their children on the street, which has become the main focus of the drug trade. It is not a secret that adolescents are the most susceptible to drugs. The problem in the Odessa, Kyiv, Kharkiv areas became the most acute. There will be 29, 12 and 10 drug addicts, according to official data alone. The biggest drug bust reached Zaporozhye district, where it reached 10,000. 34 people are affected by drugs. The reason for this ringleading was an investigation initiated by the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The socialists were able to identify the root causes of the drug trade in Zaporozhye. As a result of the self - sacrificing efforts of representatives of our party, Vasil Duszny and Anatoly Shevchenka, involvement in the spread of drugs among Zaporozhye’s internal affairs officers was established. Unprecedented facts about drug trafficking were published in the Tovarish newspaper, but the call of socialists to the Ministry of Internal Affairs to look into the situation was not heard. Moreover, our representatives in Zaporozhye were under pressure from law enforcement agencies and yet the arrest of drug traffickers was achieved through professional activities of Ukrainian security officers. On September 13, criminals were arrested. The issue of foreign drug trafficking in pursuits is another testimony that today’s authorities are criminalized, engaged in political strife and opposition, unable or unwilling to fight crime, and even more so, the problem of drug trafficking. Taking into account the drug situation, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine requires the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine: the first report on the implementation of the State Policy Programme in the area of illicit drug trafficking; the second report on the creation of public committees in district administrations to help combat drug abuse. From the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the Security Service of Ukraine, to take all measures to further investigate the case of the foreign drug mafia in pursuit and punish the persons involved. Inform the public about the progress of the investigation. From the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the 2004 increase in Ukraine’s government budget is the cost of combating drug abuse. The faction draws the attention of the entire Ukrainian society to the fact that only joint efforts by the authorities, the rule of law and the public can ensure that the spread of this evil is halted and calls upon all political forces to engage actively in the fight against the spread of drugs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u9	George Ponomarenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Vladimir Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u11	National MP Petrenko, please. Prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u12	Petrenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Sumska oblast. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Repeatedly and convincingly, the practice has proved to be extremely flawed in existing laws on the election of deputies to councils at all levels. For example, on 28 September this year, the Suma elections for city council deputies took place. More than 20 candidates were registered in three places, but local authorities paid special attention to their officials and to one of the candidates from the Communist Party of Ukraine, Rachmanova Diana Igorovne. In her previous call, she was already a member of the Horsoviet, and her principled, frank struggle with many shortcomings in the city had become inconvenient to local officials, not to the court. This was the task of the authorities at all costs not to allow Rachmanov before the election as a candidate for the members of the Council until it was removed from registration, as had been done. The Suma City Territorial Electoral Commission, with the direct participation of the Suma District Court on 26-27 September this year prior to the election, withdrew Rahmanov's registration of candidates to the deputies of Gorsovet. This has been done with gross violations of the law on the election of deputies. Thus, a meeting of the regional court's municipal territorial electoral commission was held and decisions were taken without a presence or even a personal statement by Rahmanov. They were not even able to notify her of their meetings, and the decision was handed over only on 28 September. In addition, the court ruled: the final decision and the appeal should not be appealed. The main reason for withdrawing it from registration by the commission and the court was the unfounded allegations that Rachmanov had allegedly provided inaccurate data in her material, not as the law had stated, but as the events were happening in and around Sumski Horsov. In fact, in the electoral material, she wrote that in the Sumski Horsovite, under pressure from the local authorities, the majority, mostly from the former Donans, had betrayed and enriched the interests of the Sumerian electorate. That is, Rahmanov was illegally removed from registration for her critical views on the actions of the local authorities and for belonging to the Communist Party of Ukraine. As a result of the elections, the administrative resources of the Mountain Council have been used by three former Donans, and only now more than half of the former Donans have been members of the Suma Mountains Council. These were not elections, but violence against the law. Proposal and conclusions. First. The Supreme Council should expedite the adoption of the Ukrainian law on the election of council deputies at all levels on a proportionate basis. Second, judges should not be appointed by the Supreme Council for life but should be elected by the people for 5-10 years. Third: The Civil Code and the Procedural Code should be supplemented with the adoption of a number of decisions of the courts of first instance as final and inadmissible, since this is contrary to the Constitution and limits the rights of citizens to their defence. And the fourth. In order to combat systematic violations of the Suma Elections Act, it is desirable to intervene with the Supreme Council Committee on State Construction and Local Self-Government. The relevant materials have been handed over to him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u13	Nestor Shufrich instead of Igor Shurma. The faction of Ukraine's Social Democratic Party is united. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u14	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues. Yesterday, September 30, 2003, at the morning plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to give a speech to the head of the Lviv District Council of Mr. Sindak was violated. Yes, especially at the invitation of the members of the faction "Our Ukraine" who presided over the meeting by Volodymyr Lithuania in accordance with article 3.2, paragraph 3. 1 The Supreme Council of Ukraine has put to the vote a proposal to give a word to Mr. Sindak, who has not received the support of the required number of deputies. Thus, according to article 3.2, paragraph 5, 1 The Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure are regarded as rejected. But in violation of the above-mentioned rule of law, under the pressure of the deputies of "Our Ukraine" the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Lithuania, has voted on proposals, until it is unacceptable. In this connection, the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine reminds Volodymyr Lithuania that, in accordance with article 4.3.8, part 1, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council’s Rules, it is obliged to ensure compliance with the Rules at meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and requires it not to exceed its powers, including through the support of the deputies of our faction. [[united]] And now I'm going to answer our Ukrainians, and I'm going to add, as they say, in my own words. Indeed, the practice of the Supreme Council allows us to vote, but at the request of faction leaders, who have a total of 226 national factions, whose factions are 226 national deputies. And this was done in accordance with the demands of the Chief of the Supreme Council and the decision of the Conciliation Council. And I would like to remind all of us that the Head of the Supreme Council is among the four hundred and fifty national deputies who were elected two hundred and twenty - six national deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you no longer to force me to vote, especially when it comes to the admission of certain people to committees when I voted ten times. I also broke the Rules. I'm not doing this anymore. And I know that I am equal and depend on the will of the Supreme Council and the will of two hundred and twenty-six, and I don't need to remind myself of that. Please, Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u16	National MP Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. On behalf of many thousands of teachers, teachers and scientists in Ukraine, I express my outrage at the government's policy that the 84th article of the budget wants to destroy schools, universities and science, leaving the pension of working pensioners. I demand that this absurd article be taken off as unconstitutional. Please give the floor to Deputy Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u17	National MP Tarasyuk, please, because time is coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I would like to publish a statement by the People's Movement of Ukraine in connection with the release of the heads of the Lviv government in the Lviv region and the subsequent wave of repression by the authorities. "In these days, the President's decrees released four heads of the rajads of the Lviv district deputies of the Lviv District Council. The reason for such acts of authority was the public expression by these deputies of the position of their constituents, the inhabitants of the Lviv region, who opposed the anti-national review of the Constitution, against the surrender of the longstanding struggle of Ukraine’s State sovereignty, against the bivouction of representatives of the tax administration. This event is one of the chains in the chain of purgatory by the authorities for political views and beliefs. Recall that the Ukrainian People’s Movement has already taken note of the persecutions and layoffs of motorists just for their belonging to the Movement and their active political position. The president and his environment have once again been shown that the main criterion for the selection of personnel is not professionalism and patriotism, but the thoughtless implementation of anti-government guidelines from above. The power in which the common method of combating dissension is liberation from work, political or even physical destruction, constant pressure has all the signs of authoritarianism. This unprecedented campaign of political persecution and pressure in front of the presidential elections shows powerlessness, immorality and proves that the President and his environment will use any means to preserve power in their own hands. The authority is used to instill the muscles of one united party and protect the villains on the sole ground that they belong to the party. [[in quotes]] The National Movement of Ukraine has consistently opposed the conduct of human resources terror and has called on the public to protect patriots from power abuse. We will apply all legal methods to combat the anti-national regime and urge all concerned Ukrainians to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u19	Yes, Trofimenko Vadim, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u20	Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u21	Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! I'm going to read a statement that I couldn't read yesterday. From the faction of Ukraine. Today, every thinking person is aware that the government in the Ukrainian State has stolen from the people a financial and political union called the SDPU(o) with a small bubble. At first, they stole an attractive name from European politicians, having a bearing on democracy as a donkey to space. By barely stretching their legs through the critical electoral threshold, they would have to sit in the shadows of the legislative body, or political gallery. But with the insolence, the unjust billions, and the unscrupulousness of the guarantor of the Constitution, they privatized all branches of power in Ukraine and the President himself. Ukrainians with bitterness can say, after 12 years of independence, that the movement towards democracy of Ukraine has returned to a single-party system, and the party's role has fallen as an anti-Ukrainen anti-democracy clan of impoverished Ukrainian people. With the arrival of the Presidential Office of the Administrator and the complicity of the leader of the Esdeans, Ukrainian politics has gained ominous, morbid color. Its immorality, administrative insolence, corruption, leakyness, and contempt for the national interests of the Ukrainian people and every citizen are no longer concealed. They passionately imitate the loyalty of only one man in Ukraine to the President and, judging by his conduct, he believes in this Pharisee. In fact, they condemn the remnants of Ukraine’s economic power. In recent months alone, several ministries, the entire western customs border, most district and district administrations, free economic zones, power structures, banks, courts, media outlets, have been captured by this financial union. There is no party on the planet that has such an uncontrollable, presumptuous monopoly. But all its own record of cynical arrogance was covered in Lviv, bullying the country that gave them a rotten gourd in the election. The patriotic Galicina, from which the movement for Ukrainian independence began, today repents for giving refuge to the younger brother of the leader of the Esdeans. The Lviv tax administration, led by Sergey Medvedchuk, has essentially become the highest authority in the country and a repressive authority, and a contributor to the nation’s money. It was by their efforts that Lvivščina became the most corrupt and impoverished area in Ukraine. All of this is done so harshly, cynically, with the challenge that even the humble district council of the Lviv region has not endured and, having overcome the fear of the tax monster, voted in favour of his mistrust. And he shakes the Lvivite even harder, with even greater scale and cruelty. Last week, a district council session is being held again. The absolute majority of deputies reaffirm their decision and demand that Medvedchuk, Jr., resign, liberate Lvivishka from the Esdeks, end political terror and abuse of the land, accuse the Esdeks of betraying national interests. They think that Ukrainians can be intimidated, bought, or simply fucked up by taking away their honour and dignity. Lviv proved that they would not succeed. This will lead to the whole of Ukraine. People, they only have 393 days left to torture you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u23	Thank you. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. Please, Vladimir Leschenko, please, the Communist faction. Now, let's go to Lechchenka, then the line. Well, I announced Lechchenko. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u24	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, George Bück.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u25	Please, George Buiko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u26	George Buiko, Donetsk district, Communist Party of Ukraine Today, Ukraine celebrates Older Man’s Day. And we're not referring to this day as, first of all, a holiday, but a day of analysis that the state has done has worked for this category of citizens. So allow me to inform you today that on 26 September, a variety of events took place in all the cities of Donetsk region, all the district centres and many other settlements, gatherings, gatherings of citizens, pickets as part of the All-Ukrainian Veterans Protection protest. Tens of thousands of people have been admitted to these actions as preliminary estimates. The view of people is that the leadership of the country deliberately deprives millions of older generations of persons with disabilities of the only life-saving package of benefits that will allow them to hold on to life again. This is done on behalf of the International Monetary Fund and is all the more immoral in connection with the 60th anniversary of Fascism to seek power, to mock the generation of winners. The participants in the meetings and assemblies therefore demand that, in accordance with article 22 of the Constitution, Ukraine recognize as a false substitute for relief benefits. In the development of public and local budget projects, provision should be made for the financing of the benefits established by Ukrainian legislation to be fully available to all pensioners of the Ministry of Defence, the BSS and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and other benefits established by the armed forces of the BSS, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Internal Affairs in 1992. To prohibit executive heads from violating, in any form, the existing legislation of Ukraine on the granting of benefits to veterans of all categories and disaster management at CAES. In addition, participants in protests, war veterans, military service, work, exterminators, students, internationalist soldiers, representatives of political parties and social organizations of the Donetsk Region believe that the agreement signed in Yalta on 19 September this year on the creation of a single economic space in Belarus, Kazakhstan, Russia and Ukraine offers new opportunities to deepen Ukraine's mutually beneficial economic cooperation with its traditional economic partners, Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan, subject to the consistent and sustained implementation of the agreement and other relevant treaties, which should accompany the implementation of the framework document, our State will be given additional opportunities to ensure sustained economic growth, social progress and, on this basis, to improve the standard of living of the population. This, in turn, will serve the national interests of Ukraine and its people. The establishment of a free trade zone within a single economic space will contribute to the growth of jobs and increase Ukraine's domestic gross product, increase the opportunities for our products to enter the markets of Russia and other countries of the general economic area, and resolve a number of customs issues. We therefore turn to the people's deputies in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u27	Yes, please finish, time is up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u28	I conclude with the leaders of the political forces who are represented in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u29	Thank you. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u30	We urge you to do all you can to the shortest.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u31	That's it, thank you. You've been out for four minutes. Thank you, thank you. Thanks again. Have a seat, please. That's it, thank you. Please! Please don't waste time. You're a disciplined man, please. Igor Shurma, please the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u32	Instead of Eudemimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u33	Instead of Eudemimov. Dear colleagues, well, I've been keeping an eye on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u34	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Shut up with shame! That's enough! Your shame is over! You will now speak shame! Javorowski’s answer. Javorowski’s answer. I study carefully, I try to learn your creativity, you have one thing: you celebrate first, and then you disgrace. Today you started to embarrass, and now you're celebrating. I want to read it for all of your listeners. Yavorowski, Zaporozhye truth: "Aurora didn't just shoot in Winter. So her shot was aimed at the white skin of all the painters and the later Nepmans, and at that stove with the stomach on its shoulders, not with the head, the city." "The flag of youth": "We live on the planet Lenin, it returns its round-bright forehead to the sun, like Lenin to the twenty-first century with the homonoid yet unborn inhabitants, and yet it. songs, with his inexcusable thunderstorms, yet unspoken oaths, virgin hopes and flowers." You're making progress, Mr. Yavorowski. Statement: "The parliamentary faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine declares a strong protest against the shameful practice of transferring the draft laws of national importance to the political plane. [[united]] Conscious of the opposition of individual political forces to the necessary changes for society, legislative changes have been devastating to the development of state and democracy in Ukraine, ignoring the general need to improve the social protection system. The vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the third rereading of the law on compulsory public health insurance was a sign of this. Open lobbying of corporate interests of insurance companies, uninhibited politics, and in some cases incomprehensible exclusion from voting issues did not allow the sole legislative body of Ukraine to carry out a three-year work on a bill that, in fact, was expected by a people who were able to significantly improve the status of the country's health system, introduce new forms and methods of work in medical institutions, contribute to the updating of the material and technical base. Unfortunately, but now the destructive actions of some legislators, Ukraine has lost its real ability to bring health care to a quality new level as soon as possible. Trying to explain the situation of the bill by its imperfection is nothing more than a failed attempt on the part of the political forces to justify themselves to their own voters. A painful but constitutional right of Ukrainian citizens to health insurance has been placed on the altar of corporate interests of insurance companies, since no one has prevented or prevented all political forces from joining the committee on working on the bill. The parliamentary faction of Ukraine’s Social Democratic Party states that the price of failure to vote on Ukraine’s draft law is too high - health. [[united]] The parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine demands that the results of the roll-call vote be made public in a re-third reading of the National Health Insurance Bill, so that those political parties in their districts do not say they are responsible for health reform. And 30 seconds. At a meeting of the profile committee yesterday, everyone agreed that health care for 2004 required 19 and a half billion and 8 and a half billion. On another occasion, we are witnessing that there is no money. And one more thing. SDPU(o) is cooperating with the Central Committee of the Medical Workers' Association to ensure that the pension of 237 bracelets meets the tariff. And we're going to support all the social, medical issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u35	The replica. Yavorowski, please. Microphone, microphone of the people’s deputy Yavorowski The replica. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u36	Vladimir Yavorowski. My dear colleagues, well, you hear that the storms are playing, the time for reckoning is coming. That's understandable. I am very grateful to Mr. Shurma that he has now begun to read Vladimir Yavorowski. I'm ready to write everything he wants. Let him read, let him not do politics or do the evil that his party is doing for the Ukrainian people today. And the last. Mr. Shurma, I want from "Our Ukraine," because I've read the statement from "Our Ukraine," and not on behalf of Yavorowski, don't forget that. So on behalf of "Our Ukraine," I want to say that we were against those versions of insurance companies and we're going to stand. Because if you want, I'll remind you who was behind the pyramids that robbed the people, not your esdeks. But your Surkiss, remember, everyone, and all that. That's why you need to get your tongue out and keep your mouth shut, guys. Because if you stop lying against us, it's only then that we can stop telling the truth about you. We don't have to lie, we have enough truth against you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! We're going to finish on this note. They exchanged kindness. Well, I can't, dear colleagues. Well, time's up! Dear colleagues, we worked for 50 minutes instead of 30 minutes. Let us then follow the Rules. We refer to the Rules all the time. Well, unfortunately you can't, Mikhailo Vasilovich. I understand. Let us now consider matters in accordance with the order of the day. A draft law on cross-border cooperation is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Romanyuk Sergey Andriyovich, Deputy Minister of Economics and European Integration. Sergey Volodymyrovich Shevchuk will be the co-reporter. Excuse me, dear colleagues, I'm sorry. A draft law on the approval of the living minimum for 2004 is being announced for consideration. Reporter: First Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mikola Alexiyovich Soldatenko. The first Deputy Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Kirilenko Vijacheslav Anatoliyovich, will be a co-report. The committee’s rules are proposed. Within five minutes, a reporter and a co-rapporteur will be there. On the question, it's also up to five minutes. And then for 15 minutes, we'll talk. No objections? None. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian law on the approval of a living minimum is proposed for 2004. The project is designed in accordance with article 4 of the Housing Minimum Act. It provides that before considering the state budget, a law on the size of the minimum of living is being considered and adopted. It is proposed that for 2004, a minimum of 356 bracelets per month be set per person. For comparison. For one person per month it's 342 bracelets for today, for individual social and demographic groups: children up to six -- that's $318.59, children 6-18 years old -- 398. 31 kop., working persons - 379 g. 01, and the people who lost their jobs. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general I remind you that, as in the past years, the subsistence minimum for major social and demographic groups is calculated in a normative way, based on food sets, non-food products and service sets. All these sets and standards are approved by scientific and civic expertise, which was based on tripartism, that is, by all sides of social partners, employers' union, government representatives and trade unions. The 2004 calculations are based specifically on prices based on statistics for May of this year, as well as projected inflation indices by the end of this year and the following year. Calculations were made, including the June, July, and August calculations, which made their own decisions in the course of the discussion. In terms of agreement, the bill was also agreed with employers and representatives of trade unions. I want to report that the practical comments that were proposed are taken into account or will be taken into account in the second reading of the bill. Dear National Deputies! Please give your support and accept this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u39	Please have a question for the speaker. There's a question, please sign up. Let me explain. Alexander Mikolaiovich Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u40	Dear reporter! Alexander Stoyan, head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. In fact, you said it was right that we agreed on a standard of living with you. But I'd like to make it clear. The thing is, in May months, and in June months, in July, you know, there was a big price surge. [[Accounting for May Month]] And that's why the Federation of Trades made their comments and offered to make a minimum of living accounts, coming out of June's prices. Is this proposal taken into account by the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u41	Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich! In the course of the drafting of this bill, we are already on your committee, in consultation with trade unions, with your experts, we have made calculations almost every summer, which is June, July and August. As the calculations show, really, June figures are the highest, so we don't deny that the total cost of living is calculated, accepted, coming out of June prices.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u42	Mikhailo Kuzmich Rodionov, Communist Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u43	Rodionov, the Communist faction. I'm here. We can come back here. Tell me, please, what's the point in approving a living minimum that's much smaller than a minimum wage, first? Second, it's the minimum of life, because all the calculations in the budget project and now, and those that have been, come from what is guaranteed minimum, is 85 dollars per. No, 350 or so. I mean, what is it? Why do we approve this minimum of living?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u44	Answering your question. First of all, we have the minimum wage size is on. From December 1st, it's going to be budgeted, 237 dollars, and the living minimum that we're going to offer for a working person is 380 dollars. It's at the price of May. At June's prices, it's going to be a little bit higher. That's the first question. On the second issue, this calculation, the subsistence minimum, is carried out in accordance with the law on subsistence minimum, which defines it as the basic social standard, which is then approved by all social guarantees in the state. That's why it's the way it is for us. The kind of social security we're approaching. For example, if today's 185 - percent minimum wage is about 50 percent, 237 is at the projected minimum wage of 62 percent of the minimum wage. So it's not hypothetical at all, it's normal quantity, which is, first of all, the orientation, second of all. By this magnitude, we appreciate the dynamics of our approach to a certain standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u45	Vernigora, the Socialist Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u46	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Mikola Alexiyovich, you know better than anyone who's based on the minimum wage. And on the contrary, the subsistence minimum includes this base. So I'd like to ask you if it's time for us to adopt a minimum wage bill today because we have to take it before the budget. And given that today the government has reported to us that in the first half of the year there was no increase in the national gross product of 14.1 per cent in Ukraine's history, we have come up with the most realistic opportunity in history to implement article 46 of the Constitution and to bring the minimum wage into line with the subsistence minimum, by the way, to what you're proposing, the government. Please. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u47	So I get it, there are at least two questions here. First, I'll start with the last one on gross domestic product. In the projections that came into the budget, the gross domestic product in 2004 should be 274 billion. For one Ukrainian citizen, it's 470 dollars a month. If you divide in proportion even the previous one that we did, so to speak, in the country plan, the ratio between accumulation and consumption is 75 percent. It's going to be about 350 dollars a month. So we're offering a minimum of living, on the average, we're offering 356, so these sizes are logically congruent. What about the minimum wage? You know that the adopted amendments to the Budget Code and to the Act on Paying for Work, which states that the minimum wage is accepted in the budget. And a separate article in the budget, the minimum wage is predicted to be 237 dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u48	Thank you. Mikola Karnauh, Soccer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u49	Thank you. I understand that your ministry is responsible for social protection and wage policies. No wonder you set such a small subsistence minimum! And in fact, your ministry and today's authorities are doing everything they can to keep people very low consumption levels so they can't make ends meet. And try living on your own for a minimum of living and for the pensions that people receive today. What you're going to do is, really, people are going to get pensions that they've earned depending on their internships and their earnings, and they're going to increase their living minimum. And so the level of consumption, because without consumption, we're never going to have any growth in production or an increase in gross domestic product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u50	Thank you for asking. First. The Ministry of Labour does not determine the size of the subsistence minimum. In my report, I emphasized that it is being established according to the procedures and according to the methodology and according to the prices that have been set for today. Thus, the Ministry of Labour and the government offers according to calculations and does not set up. As far as your question of retirement is concerned, what do you do with them? So you know that the Supreme Council passed a law on general government insurance and one of the radical conditions for its successful implementation is that it is provided for in 2004 to review pensions according to the parameters that you emphasize. That is, pensions are differentiated according to earnings. And if a 25 - percent increase in pensions was foreseen in general, this does not mean that it is only on average. This does not mean that everyone will be, and whoever has earned more, pensions will be reviewed on a larger scale, and those who have not earned, pensions will remain on that level or will increase on a smaller scale.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u51	Thank you, Mikola Alexiovich. The report and questions have been completed. Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, the first deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, is invited to attend. Please, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u52	Viacheslav Kirilenko, block "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Social Policy and Work discussed at its meeting the draft law on subsistence minimum introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. The bill proposes to approve living minimum per person per month for 2004 as well as for basic social and demographic groups. The subsistence minimum for basic social demographic groups is calculated by the normative method, based on food, non-food, and services approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of April 14, 2000. Compared to 2003, the subsistence minimum is proposed to increase by 4.1 percent. Minimum wage for children under 6 years of age by 3.8 years of age for children from 6 to 18 years of age - 3.7 working persons by 4.06, for people who have lost their jobs by 4.6 percent. The members of the committee pointed out that the calculation of the minimum of living was initially carried out on the basis of prices made in May 2003 and projected inflation indexes in 2003 and 2004, which were included in the draft forecast for economic and social development. But the projected inflation indices in 2003 and 2004 did not take into account the sharp rise in consumer prices on the basis of food, energy in Ukraine in June and August of this year, about two or three times. In addition, rising prices of the above - mentioned foods caused price increases in bread, meat, and milk products, other consumer goods, and services. Taking into account the above-mentioned committee, he asked the Ministry of Profiles for the purpose of using the actual minimum cost of living as a basis for the price increase that took place in June-August, given that there was a significant increase in prices for basic products. After considering the proposed bill, which had already been completed by the Cabinet of Ministers, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft bill, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, taking into account the size of the living minimum in June 2003, submitted by the Ministry of Labour on September 15. The committee therefore believes that it is possible to support what is being contributed by the Cabinet of Ministers with an addition, and these figures per person per month now amount to 358 dollars per month, as well as an increase in the number for individual social and demographic groups. But given that the government has taken note of the committee's observations, it's still important to say about the following things, maybe for the government, it's not very pleasant. We, members of the committee, and this was discussed at the meeting, had to point out that at first there was an attempt to offer a level of living minimum for the following year, which did not take into account the increase in prices of grain, grains, and then energy, which happened in the summer of this year. We have to note that even after the price recalculation, the cost of living at least went up, but it just went up by 2 bracelets and 9 copies. We believe that this increase is worth noting, but it does not take into account the increase in the real value of life in Ukraine, especially given the rise in prices that had little room for food. The following position was made by members of the committee to comment on the method by which the minimum of living is calculated. We can talk as much as we want to talk about what it's supposed to be, but if it's method that a person, for example, or a family made up of three people in a culture, for example, to visit theaters, cinemas, museums, parks, zoos, reserves, circuses, music institutions, and buy books for three people all year long, it's going to cost 27 dollars. Or if you look at the method that the same family, for example, needs to spend an average of 49 copies per year on repairs, it also indicates that this method is not perfect and that it is based on the definition of the minimum of living. Well, it has to be said separately that 46 articles of the Constitution, which provide that pensions, social benefits and so forth, and minimum wages under the Social Standards Act cannot be less than a minimum of living, yet this problem is not solved. The cost of living at the present time is merely a guideline, not a basis for people and their actual payments. So, in agreement with what needs to be adopted on a basis, the committee points to the need for the government to continue to work on the definition of subsistence minimum parameters and also to take into account the proposals that will now be made by the deputies in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u53	Thank you. Are there any questions? I see there's already hands. Please sign up. Lighten up. Levcun, please. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u54	Dear reporter, please tell me the question of a decent minimum of living is, of course, a matter of important social significance. So when you talk about what's going up by 2 bracelets compared to last year, and in the budget, if you look at the budget, let's say the State Office of the President of Ukraine, there's 100 million more than last year. So for the President and his almost next year's increase of 100 million, for a simple Ukrainian citizen, 2 bracelets. Is this fair in terms of social policy or at least an elementary conscience?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u55	Just a minute. I'm asking for protocol: this is a question from Victor Terrence. Please, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u56	Dear colleague, thank you for asking. And I have to make it clear that the government is bringing an increased living minimum of not 2 bracelets, but 14 bracelets, 16 more precisely. The living minimum for this year, 2003 is 342 bracelets, and the government is now offering to approve it at 358. So 16 dollars is going to go up. When I was talking about 2 bracelets of 9 copies, I was saying that the government was already in the process of determining the minimum of living for the next year, 2004, I agreed with the proposal: to take into account the rise in prices for food and energy products, which took place in June, July and August. And so when they counted the increase in these prices, he decided that this entire crisis in terms of the cost of living at the minimum cost of 2 bracelets of 9 copies. [[Remember this sad food crisis that has been debated so much in this room]] So 356 were added, given the increase in prices for basic products, 358 came out. We also believe that such an increase is insignificant, and so perhaps there will be proposals for deputies to consider the bill in a second reading. Well, as for the things you said, I completely agree with you. I believe that the main and priority should be social articles relating to an average, ordinary citizen, rather than articles on government expenditure, matters, and generally all those structures that provide for the activities of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u57	Stoyan, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u58	Alexander Stoyan, head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. Dear colleague Kirilenko, of course, we are prepared in principle to support such a standard because it is needed, unfortunately, as a guide. But I have two questions for you. First. Today, the government is proposing to leave a minimum wage of $237 for 2004. This is less than the minimum of living this year. So the first question is, is it time to get the minimum wage at least 70-80 percent of the minimum wage? And the second question. Indeed, it is a guide that we never catch up with or catch up with, but it involves pensions, social benefits, or other assistance. So do you think it would be necessary to make a protocol proposal, or, say, a decision by the Supreme Council to have the government submit a bill that would require a minimum wage to be applied by 2005 to all other social benefits to the minimum of living? Don't you think such a law is necessary?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u59	I'll start with another one. And I think, really, we need to ask the government a hard question, in front of any government, regardless of who even formed it, that the minimum of living should stop being a guideline. Since the Supreme Council of the past convened the minimum of living laws, there were no guidelines. It was a strict social standard that would have to be required for all authorities throughout the country. But that didn't happen. And the government introduced a surrogate called the minimum cost of living, which is 80, or in the following year, 85. So I agree with you and I'm willing to work together in this direction. With regard to the minimum wage, I also agree that the minimum of living in the following year will continue to be further away from the salary, because, as we all know, for the next year the government is proposing to leave the old practically size of the salary that will be set from December 1st of this year at 237 and not to raise it during the entire 2004 period. Instead, the cost of living will increase significantly, and the distance between wages and subsistence minimum will increase. It's unacceptable. And that's why I think that the Supreme Council should review the amounts that are proposed for minimum government wages for the next year in the direction of wage increases.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u60	Cibenko, please, a faction of Communists instead of Onechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u61	Thank you, Alexander Alexiovich. Dear colleague! Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons, member of the Communist faction. And as head of the committee, and as a member of the Communist faction, I can't help but support at least a meager increase in the minimum of living, because the reality is that today is the day of the elderly, and today they are in a very difficult situation. But doesn't it seem to you that these subsistence minimum values that we have, first of all, are virtual, and second of all, to some extent, speaking Russian, they represent a certain word of fornication, because there is one reality, so-called, guaranteed subsistence minimum 85 dollars. Maybe we should give up those numbers at all, 379, 356, just to be clear, there's 85 bracelets and let's dance away from that. Otherwise, people think there's a lot of, like, 85 bracelets in there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u62	I agree with you, and I think that we both and a lot of other people in this room are dreaming about the government when, when they start working, they start not with questions about how to set a minimum level of living, but they start with the first session to consider how to bring all the real payments: pensions, wages and so on to the fixed subsistence minimum, for example, even if it's $1,358. I think Ukraine will have such a government someday. Well, she doesn't have it yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u63	Thank you, Viachelav Anatolyovich. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. Prepare Kruc, Our Ukraine. Five minutes are proposed for discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u64	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I'm very surprised that today, a committee of the Supreme Council called Social Policy and Work, I've offered to support it in the first reading. And I'm also very surprised that the unions that Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan is leading are offering to support this as a guide. Not just surprised. I'm also indignant by Alexander Mikolaiovich that you support a law that can be called in other words today: "to legitimize the extinction of the Ukrainian people." That is what this law can be called. It's just legalization. So the first reading raises the question of what? About the basic parameters of the law. Do we agree with the concept of the law - to die nations? Is what you're told is that two bracelets and nine copies is normal? Because so far, 356 is written in that text. 04. It's not there yet 2.09. In that text, which is given -- and I emphasize -- to the people's deputies. And the text that the committee gave out doesn't have these two bracelets either. And the truth is, what you've read is that 2-3 times the consumer prices of basic food have risen. If so, if the committee is responsible for its words, then the calculation method that is here, well our listeners don't know what the methodology is, and the methodology here is very cool. For example, there's 0.050 on the shoe and so on. This calculation, this methodology has been done by the Ministry of Economics, and our entire government has done it. You see, today's most important law is being passed -- the approval of the minimum of living. This is the basic law for the adoption of the budget. Who do you see here from the government? First deputy of the third string? Who do you see here from the government? Where are all those interviewing? Where's the Prime Minister, where's his deputy, Deputy Prime Minister Tobacco, where? Interviewed? We need an interview here. Prices went up by a third over these three months, and a third was to be raised to a minimum. So it's 500 dollars today. 500 bucks is something you can do from this calculation. So our job as legislators is to define today conceptually whether we are in favor of this approach or not. I'm against it. I think this law needs to be sent to the government for work. We can't provide 500 dollars because the Constitution of Ukraine, I'll remind you that we have a base, part three of Article 46. [[I'm done.]] It says: Pensions, other types of social benefits, which are the main source of existence, must ensure a standard of living not less than the subsistence minimum established by law. So we need to set the minimum that can actually provide housing. This law must be enforced. There's no government, let him go, he's going tomorrow. He can't leave tomorrow. Let him go with the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u65	Mikola Fedorovich Krutz, please prepare for Frost, the Communist faction. Please follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u66	Mikola Krutz, Ivano-Frankivsky, "Our Ukraine" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that this project needs to be adopted is probably no one to be questioned. First, when we accept it, we comply with the law. Secondly, raising the minimum of living for the next year is a positive decision. But is it an adequate socio-economic situation? Of course not. I understand very well that there is a limit to what is possible and that we need to get out of it. So we can only set a cost-effective minimum that the economy allows us to do. We can say that by assessing the situation from a position, as it were, of government men. But we have to go from a different point of view, which is no less, a. maybe even more, governmental in terms of those for whom this minimum of living is set. And somehow we always find that the state takes its own interests first and then the interests of its people. What is actually referred to in this case under the Law on State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees is a basic state social standard on the basis of which State social guarantees are defined. So if such a standard is not adequately defined by socio-economic realities, then all the other social guarantees that are set for one or the other types of population will also be inadequate, so they will not fully perform their function. What do we have? According to the explanatory note, the calculation of the size of living minimums proposed for this project for 2004 is based on the prices of May 2003 and the projected inflation index in 2003 and 2004. But these calculations and forecasts are no longer accurate. After all, they went into a situation that arose early in the summer with bread and prices for it. And bread is known to be part of any food supply needed to satisfy the basic needs of humans. If you count the consumer price index in September, it will not be the same as it was in May of this year. In view of this, it would be desirable for the Cabinet of Ministers to quickly make a new calculation of the size of the subsistence minimum for the following year, taking into account today's socio-economic situation. And in preparing the bill for second reading on the basis of new calculations, appropriate adjustments could be made for specific figures for each type of subsistence minimum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u67	Anatoly Mikolaiovich Frost, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u68	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Zaporez area, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the issue that we are considering today is particularly relevant today, because you know, there have been major actions in Ukraine that are aimed at protecting veterans. Because the government is trying to reach out to the last thing that veterans have, they're benefits. And most of our veterans are now outside the poverty line. The government is proposing to approve a minimum of one person per month for 2004 and separately for those who refer to the main social and demographic groups according to their calculations. But on what basis are all these calculations based? On what standards? Or perhaps European? Or do they fit the framework of a single economic space, a deal recently signed by our own? Oh, oh, oh, oh, True, the explanatory note to the draft law of the Minister of Labour and Social Protection states that the minimum subsistence allowance per person per month is calculated on the basis of the size of the subsistence minimum for basic social and demographic groups and the sex structure of the population of Ukraine. But we should not lock ourselves in our economic space. We know that even in those so-called shadowy times, our country was also oriented on the development of capitalist states. Today we're just getting out of our own, so to speak, of the development of our economy and our state. We shouldn't lock ourselves in this space, but if we're going to be equal to Europe, that's how we should be shown. What we look like in the background of Europe. If we're going to be equal to the EP, we have to show and prove to our people that we have some kind of growth that relates to the minimum cost of living. Before adopting a minimum of living, laws on minimum wages and pensions should be adopted. And then go to this bill. I would like to say separately about the prices that are growing today. As they say, not in the days, but in the hours, and it's clear that this subsistence minimum, even if we take it in some way, it won't last much longer, and people won't get anything at all. The government's proposal is to increase the subsistence minimum by 4.1 per cent compared to 2003: there for children under six years of age, 3.8 for children from six to eighteen years of age by 3.7 for working persons by 4.6. But it's almost nothing and there's no guarantee that it's going to be done. So in the background of all of this, the cost of living seems to be small because there are not many social disadvantages. So I'm personally against this growth, but as one of our colleagues in this room said, which would probably have to be with great disgust to support this bill, this minimum minimum proposed by the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u69	Puzakov, the Communist faction. Then there's Stoyan's line.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u70	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Given that the whole social security system is based on the size of the subsistence minimum, we would have to accept the proposed proposals for the minimum of living. But I would like to point out that some of the current standards for the consumption of food and non-food products that are taken to calculate the definition of a subsistence minimum, I think, are demeaning human dignity. According to the standards established by the Cabinet of Ministers, a man of working age has one pair of half - wool cloth for four years and winter boots for five years. Women of working age should have one dress of half - wool cloth, one skirt, one robe, and one pair of winter boots for five years. Children between the ages of six and 18 should have three pairs of socks and three pairs of pantyhose for two years, one for three years. And according to consumption standards, the average family should sleep for 15 years on three pillows. I'm not talking about housing and utility standards anymore, but these standards are at least taken into account, and as for vital and important ingredients, such as housing or rental, education, health care, they're not included in the minimum of living. It is practically ignored that almost 95 percent of housing is purchased by the population at their own expense or credit, and nearly 60 percent of the students are trained in paid-up colleges. Medical care in most cases is done at the expense of the population. Even in the stations today, only the rent of a bed-and-roof space is free of charge. Everything else is on account and charity. Thus, the government’s assurance of the 2004 minimum of living is absurd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u71	Solomatin Yuri Petrovich, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u72	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. The bourgeois Parliament discusses the bourgeois law of the so - called bourgeois minimum. So I would like to emphasize, first of all, for our deluded people some numbers that will prove what the subsistence minimum is. If my colleague Peter Cibenko mentioned the figure: guaranteed subsistence minimum 85 dollars, and the average pension is now in the absolute majority of 14 million pensioners, veterans and invalids 140-150 dollars. The minimum wage is offered and guaranteed at a level of 237. And now we're talking about a living minimum of 356 dollars. And what, how many socks, pants and skirts can you buy for it, for the minimum, and how to provide for learning and your cultural needs, is what my colleague-deputy from the town of Puzakov said about it. The average wage in Ukraine is now 460 dollars. And on this background, there are the privileged directions of industrial activity, especially financial activity, where the average wage is much higher. In the mining and metallurgical complex, first of all, those workers standing by the martens, the steel mills, they have a salary of at least a thousand dollars. And that's very good. The operators of nuclear power plants are the same as at least thousands of bracelets. There's a very respectable structure that cries out for debt restructuring for it to make a fee for the congregation for geological exploration -- gas mining. The average wage is $1200,1300. And in the financial sector, our elite averages 2,000. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the Dear deluded people! With a sneer on your neck, modern leaders and guides lead you to a chasm! Wake up! Unite around the Communist Party! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u73	A replica of Alexander Mikolaiovich Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u74	Alexander Stoyan, head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. I want to say to a colleague who's constantly speaking on all issues and he understands everything, my dear fellow, it's the Federation of Trades that initiated the law on the minimum of living, that's the first time. Secondly, it was the Federation of Trades that insisted on calculating the subsistence minimum, not in May, but in June. And the next. Dear colleague, you are in this faction, in the hands of a budget committee. Please help the 2004 Committee of Budgets decide that all social benefits should correspond to a minimum of one percent. Because in fact, today's minimum wage is 52 percent of the minimum wage, pension is about 20 to 30 percent, social pay -- and so on. And the second. I passed a law that stipulates that in 2005 all social benefits should be equal to the minimum of living. Work with your great faction so that this law will be passed. And it's not going to be populism, it's going to be a real filling. Because today is really very low social parameters, but the minimum of living is, unfortunately, an orientation. Now let's get all the payments up to 362, and let's move on. So you don't have to have Vitrenco syndrome here in the hall that promised and didn't do anything. Let's be real. I urge you to support this standard, the minimum of living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u75	One minute, Viacheslav Anatolyovich Kirilenko. Vernighor, one minute out of procedure. Kirilenko, one minute. Give me the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u76	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. I am obliged to clarify the positions mentioned in the report. In fact, we are now considering Bill 4065, passed by the government at the end of August. But when the committee made a decision on support or non-support, it took into account the official position of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy by number, I will not read, for the transcript, in principle, 03227090242 from 15.09.2003, which listed in this official letter the value of the subsistence minimum in view of the index of consumer prices that took place in June, July and August of this year. And that's why we're talking about now, when we're looking at this question, the average subsistence minimum of 358 dollars is 13 dollars, not 356. 04, as provided for in the first draft of Law 4065. In general, I want to say that you and I, as deputies, I think we have to give a fight on two other indicators: minimum wage, so that it's not the same in the next year as in this, and also this shameful amount of minimum wage, so that it's not 85 dollars. And that was a lot more or a minimum of living. And now we can talk about 500, 600, 700, which is where we put the number. But I don't think that's going to affect the real life of our citizen. So we have to get out of real numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u77	Leonid Mikhailovich Vernigora, one minute from the scene, Soccer
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u78	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich! In view of the fact that the subsistence minimum is not equal to or the standard of living, the Socialist faction of Ukraine, in accordance with article 95 of the Constitution, introduces the Supreme Council’s legislative initiative to set a minimum wage of 305 a month as of 1 July 2004 and 358 as of 1 December 2004. In this regard, by May 1, 2004, the Cabinet of Ministers had approved an additional grant to local budgets to raise the minimum wage for budget workers. What is involved in this bill? In view of the budgetary issue that will be considered in the days ahead, we want 237, which will be paid from December 1, 2004 to July 1, 2004, and the establishment of a new minimum wage, which will be the basis for a new living minimum. Please take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u79	Thank you. Question 4065 of the draft Housing Minimum Act 2004 has been completed. The discussion will take place in accordance with the Rules. A draft law on cross-border cooperation, project registration number 3472, is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the Deputy Minister for Economics and European Integration, Romanyuk Sergey Andriyovich. Please, Sergey Andryovich. Twenty-five minutes. Report - 5, report - 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u80	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich! Dear National Deputies! The drafting of the bill is based on the need for a legislative definition of the basic principles of cross-border cooperation in Ukraine. Such a need is determined by a number of essential factors, and on the main ones, let us briefly stop. Today, Ukraine’s current legislation deals only with individual issues of its specificities. Ukraine joined the European Convention of 10 years ago on the Basic Principles of Cross-border Cooperation between Territorial Communities or Authorities, which was adopted in 1980. However, for the vast majority of communities and local authorities, their implementation is complicated by the lack of financial capacity, the lack of clarity of their own authority, the fear of using international legal standards in their absence from domestic legislation. At the same time, the steady expansion of economic, social and cultural relations with foreign partners forces them to seek legal and organizational solutions to these relations. This experience is already there. It can be illustrated by the Euroregions created by the western regions of Ukraine. Similar experiences have begun to spread in the eastern regions. The interest of local authorities in cross-border cooperation is also stimulated by the fact that, under certain conditions, plans with a neighbour on the other side of the border can substantially strengthen the financial resources of international or European institutions. The legislative regulation of cross-border cooperation is also provided for by such an important factor as the approximation of the borders of the European Union next year, the formation of a new European community strategy for relations with its neighbours. Since this strategy provides for broad cooperation at the inter-regional and inter-urban level of the EU countries and their neighbours. The draft law is designed as a framework legislative act in the field of cross-border cooperation, which defines its legal, economic and organisational principles, and provides for the definition of appropriate terminology within the framework of Ukrainian and international legislation. In particular, defined concepts of cross-border cooperation, the cross-border region, the euro area, cross-border cooperation subjects, projects of such cooperation and agreements, and so forth. Taking into account the proposals made by local self - government authorities and local executives, the main mandates are their participation in cross-border cooperation, such as the possibility of making agreements, participating in the development and implementation of joint programmes, and joining international associations. This will enable local authorities to communicate on an equal footing with foreign partners in cooperation. The bill defines the basic principles of State policy in the field of cross-border cooperation, puts coordination and monitoring on the implementation of legislation on these issues on a specific body, the central executive authority. The law defines the status of bodies that can be formed within the framework of cross-border cooperation, spheres and organizational forms of such cooperation. The project envisages legislative regulation of State support for cross-border cooperation, which provides for prioritization, competitive selection of projects that claim State support, financial support. In addition to the central authorities and the cross - border cooperation entities themselves, such programs will be developed. The implementation of the bill requires financial security, whose sources are government, local budgets, and international technical assistance. The adoption of the bill will allow the conditions for the implementation of the basic provisions of the European Framework Convention on Inter-State and Inter-Governmental Agreements between Ukraine and the countries with which it has joint borders. Especially with regard to cooperation in addressing the problems of the old development of Ukraine. This will contribute to a dynamicly balanced socio-economic development in the regions. The project was supported by four committees of the Supreme Council and recommended for consideration and adoption in the first reading at the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the proposed bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u81	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Please sign up for the question. Lighten up. Kalinchuk, please, the Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u82	Thank you. Kalinczuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party, Odščina Your Honor, I have a question for you. As the bill simplifies, the system of relationships between border settlements on the one hand and on the other is simplified for citizens who live directly in border settlements. This is a very painful question, for example, to be honest with you, because the Mold border with Moldova is nearly 900 km away. And there are people who have family, close on one side and on the other. So what does this law provide for a simplified relationship between us and our neighbors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u83	First, the Odessa region, along with Moldova, formed the Lower Danube region, where territorial communities from both sides of the border communicate and solve common problems. And we've been looking at an interdisciplinary commission from cross-border cooperation, and we've been looking at how to give impetus to the development of this euro area. As far as the bill is concerned, it sets out the rights of the territorial communities and their bodies to deal together with those territorial communities that are on the other side of the border. And this will certainly be strengthened by financial resources, which is also defined by the bill, because the main problem of cooperation is the financial provision of programmes that jointly establish territorial communities of different states.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u84	Kostinuk, Our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u85	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear Sergey Andryovich, you said that the adoption of this bill would settle the issues that arose in cross-border cooperation between the territorial communities. What are some typical examples of these issues, and how will they be resolved?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u86	I'm sorry, I wasn't talking about issues, I was talking about territorial communities and local authorities being afraid to use international legislation that applies to cross-border cooperation. So it's about our local authorities and territorial communities taking advantage of this bill, the rights that their neighbors enjoy. This will simplify the formal or formalization of those agreements that are made by these territorial communities. There are no questions. This is about solving the problems of environmental, cultural, social, and communication problems of people across the state border.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u87	Hell, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u88	Pecklusenko, “Regions of Ukraine”, Zaporozhye District, 84th Electoral District. At first, you said that the law was frameworkd, that it included the main issues related to the establishment of the rules of the game. At the end of your statement, you said that the law provided for budgetary appropriations. What form-up mechanisms? Who will participate? What control mechanisms? Of course, there is a need for such a law. But I think the financial burden must lie with foreign and Ukrainian companies. Your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u89	The mechanism is: The bill envisions the development of a cross-border cooperation programme for investment projects. And as we can see, the practice of such cross-border cooperation in other countries uses the order of co-financing of these projects -- the state level, the local level and the involvement of investments. Thus, the bill provides that these programmes, which will be made up of cross-border cooperation entities with the participation of central executive authorities, will be considered by these central authorities, the coordinating body and the body that will monitor the implementation of legislation, and that bill will define the central authority of the executive branch on economic policy. So control is going to come from this organ. As far as funding is concerned, this is a matter of the State budget. These funds have to be set up in the State Budget, first of all in the local budgets, and of course they have to provide for non-state investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u90	Orzhachowski, the Communist faction, is very brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u91	Thank you, Alexander Alexiovich. Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. Your Honor, I have two questions for you. The first question is, as I understand it, in accordance with the European Convention on the Basic Principles of Cross-border Cooperation, to which Ukraine joined only in 1993, we did not have the right legal field for this cooperation between the territorial communities and the authorities, and we are probably only starting to work, to work on the relevant legislative basis. If so, what other legislative documents should be adopted at the level of the State? And the second question, in view of the fact that our Ukrainian legislation does not provide for provisions whereby central executive authorities are empowered to engage in cross-border cooperation, is there no need for a clear delegation to the central executive authorities or perhaps the creation of a new body? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u92	Thank you for asking. The point is, really, that this is the first framework law that defines the general principles of this cooperation. Of course, this bill, if adopted, will then be accompanied by some changes to laws that determine the authority of local self-government authorities and local government administrations. There will be questions about the need to make adjustments to the Ukrainian Budget Code. But I think it will be over time, because we need to work on cross-border cooperation under this bill, if it's adopted, so that other laws can be further elaborated.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u93	Thank you, Sergey Andryovich. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, today the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of the Supreme Council and the Lithuanian Semium began its work. And I'd like to imagine that we have representatives of the Lithuanian part of the Lithuanian Semium present on the balcony today. Please welcome them. [[Applause]] Dear friends, we wish all of us work together, success, the best. And it is symbolically great that you are present at the consideration of the issue of cross-border cooperation, European legislation. So, happy birthday to you. A member of the European Integration Committee, Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich, is invited to the report. Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u94	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished national deputies. Clearly, cooperation at the inter-regional level is geared towards building mechanisms for mutually beneficial cooperation, such as border areas, in line with the interests of our State and, among other things, with the geopolitical features of Ukraine. That's why this bill is necessary. But the role of Parliament is not only to approve a government bill but also to introduce a certain element of criticism. So the negative point is that this bill is being submitted to the Supreme Council again and again with great delay. Because such a bill would have been desirable to develop another 5 or 7 or 10 years ago. Another point that I drew attention to during the interview was the emphasis that the Ministry of Economics would exercise control over cross-border cooperation. This looks a little weird. Because it, this cooperation, existed without the control of previous governments and is probably primarily about supporting the region, supporting cross-border groups, regions, territorial communities by the government, including financial support. The legal basis for cross-border cooperation is primarily the European Framework Convention on Cross-border Cooperation, which Ukraine joined in 1993, the European Charter on Local Self-Government, as well as our Ukrainian laws, such as foreign economic activity and local self-government, and others. In addition, the development of regional and cross-border cooperation between Ukraine and the EU member states is one of the priorities of cooperation in the form of Ukraine-EU, as outlined in the joint statement of the results of the March 2002 summit of Ukraine-EU. Yet, I would not want this document to appear in the audience to be aimed only at cooperation in the western direction. For those who monitored the process of creating the Single Economic Space, I remind you that the initial initiative was to create an organization of regional integration, and I'm focusing on the word "regional" integration. We can't speak right now -- it will be ratified or not ratified by a treaty signed in Yalta, which resulted in major debates here, but it is clear that whatever cross-border cooperation existed and will continue, including between the eastern regions of Ukraine and the Russian Federation, including between Ukraine and Belarus, where there is a type of practice, a multifaceted practice of cooperation between regions, between farms that are mutually supportive, without the governments of the two states and without the Presidents of the two States. Including cooperation in the western direction between the Republic of Poland and Ukraine, the long-standing border between our country has been formed in the form of two Euroregions: the "Bug" region, the "Karpati" region. And cooperation is not as much at the level of local self - government as at the level of economic structures, joint ventures, cultural connections, and so on and so forth. And this cooperation is not going to be able to outline even some of the negative elements that I also want to say today about the disgraceful act of the Ukrainian diplomat, the extraordinary and authorized Ambassador of Ukraine in the Republic of Poland, the reference to which will make many Ukrainians reddish, which will negotiate independently on the financial, economic, cultural sphere, because such facts also cross out some of our moments of cooperation, including cross-border. In general, I agree with the fact that this bill is of a framework nature and largely corresponds to both the above-mentioned legal acts and the position of European legislation and norms and the principles of the GAT SOT system. The Committee of the Supreme Council on the Issues of Euro-Inclusion has considered the bill and has decided to address you, honourable national deputies, with the proposal to support it in the first reading. We are also grateful for the great work that the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government has done, which has also shown its willingness to further work on this bill. Let me just say that the findings of the Science and Technology Administration are extremely correct and should be taken into account as a result of the consideration of the bill. In recent times, new moments have arisen that we should consider. These points are related to the enlargement of the EU and the accession of 10 new countries to this structure. And that's why yesterday's negotiations by Mr. Gristenck's foreign minister in Brussels also indicate that there may be negative consequences of such a process, which will first be felt by regions across borders, because it is the economic damage of our state as a result of the liquidation of a number of bilateral agreements between Ukraine and the "ten" countries that will become members of the European community. As a general conclusion, I want to say that this bill needs to be adopted, and we hope that this will allow for a better level of friendly relations between the border regions of Ukraine and our neighbours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u95	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please sign up for the question. The miner, Our Ukraine. Next Nadya. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u96	Dear reporter! And the representative of the Ministry, and you're talking about the necessity of this law. But the law is so frameworkive, and those frames are just very transparent. What does it provide for real cooperation? Does it provide a law that treaties can sign among themselves? And who? Who are the subjects of this cooperation? Are there territorial communities or executive authorities? Who is this executive body that will coordinate this? Where am I going? Is such a law necessary in general if it does not contain any specifics? Or it's possible to fill it with specifics, determine who the subjects are and what they can do. Because there are a few changes in government functions, they are passed on to the unknown to whom and within what framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u97	Thank you. I think our joint task is to fill this bill with really concrete things, because I agree with you, they are missing in this bill. There are no doubt two positive points in this project prepared by the government. First of all, it's an attempt to specify the authority of local self-government, territorial communities living on the border, and central authorities. I emphasize once again, it's not about control, it's about coordination. Agree that such coordination within the State is necessary. It will obviously be carried out by the Ministry of Economics on issues of European integration, and within the walls of the Supreme Council, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Local Self-Government. And the second moment, which is extremely important, is that for the first time there are certain financial mechanisms to support cross-border cooperation at state level. That's what never happened before. The territorial communities themselves sought funds to meet the delegation, to develop a project. In this case it will be set up and defined the mechanism of such financial support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u98	Basil Nadrag, People's Choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u99	Dear Sergey Vladimirovic, I am here representing the Lugansk region, for which this topic is very relevant, because the border guards are more important to us. I have two questions in this context. First. Would it not presuppose the adoption of this law that agreements that exist, in particular in the Lugansk region with Rostovska, Voronezhska, Moscow, with the rest of the territories, would be revised or rescinded in a new way? The State will begin to regulate this in some way under existing agreements. And the second question. Would it not be possible that the adoption of the bill would lead to the fact that the central authorities of the executive branch could organize the work once again so much that any initiative at the local level would be broken down into Kiev, capital approaches, opinions, everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u100	Thank you. I'm sure Vasil Ivanovich is honored that the adoption of this law will not contribute to the fact that the agreements signed by Lugansk with neighbouring regions have been blocked. On the contrary. This will make your local initiatives more legal and legal. I think there's two sides to this -- both the Russian Federation and Ukraine. With regard to the danger of bureaucratic barriers. They exist as a result of some practice of our governmental activity. But once again, there are all the Euroregions -- Bug, Carpathian, Upper Prud, Lower Danube -- they were created without such coordination. They were created by the initiative of local authorities. And they have a very large reserve to expand this cooperation. Finally, you and I are in this room to prevent the executive from restricting the rights of the territorial communities and local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u101	Oleg Belarus, block of Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u102	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of the School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u103	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u104	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. Dear reporter, I'm here, first of all, a short trailer. I don't know if they're going to be real, if they won't be declared real or not real contracts between the Russian Federation and Ukraine, that is. I think Ukraine has already partially entered Russia. So I don't know if this law on cross-border cooperation will work after it's ratified by the EP Supreme Council. This is the first one, this is the trailer. The EU now has a bill on cross-border cooperation between the EU and its neighbours. Ukraine is soon to become a neighbour of the EU, and it includes a 30 - mile [30 km] area. In fact, I think this bill should clearly regulate that Ukraine will consistently speak for it. There's an administrative division today, and it has to be used. So to recognize the trans-border territory, this is Volinska, Lvivska, Zakarpatska, Cherniewec region. This principle is clear, not working with what is 30 miles [30 km] from the border. From the Polish border and deeper, this is already an issue of the EU, but we need to define a clear area of cross-border cooperation. Your opinion on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u105	Thank you for asking. Well, to answer whether Ukraine or Russia enters the territory of Ukraine, that's obviously your jokes. I just want to say that there are about a hundred agreements on my memory, agreements within the SND, and I find it difficult to find at least one that is being implemented to the fullest extent possible. So this tells us about a certain perspective of those documents that you're so worried about. It's about 30 kilometers away. I agree with you that the existing territorial and administrative division of Ukraine is the basis for cross-border cooperation on the basis of these existing territories. You are well aware that there are many negative points in the enlargement of the EU for." And Grishenko was very current yesterday in Brussels asking these questions. But there are positive points. This is a positive moment, first of all, of these cross-border territories that will border with the European Union. That's the same. As Poland raised its economy and began with its western borders, where the major investments of Germany, other members of the European Union, were going, as I hope, and Ukraine will rise from the construction of the infrastructure of the border areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u106	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich, sit down, please. Or we will. Let's end up like this, and then we'll look at it. Well, I understand that my comment is made by the head of the Regulatory Committee. All right, break until 12 o'clock 30 minutes, and then let's continue this question. The Regulatory Committee is watching, it can't handle it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, continue. Please take your seats. We stopped at the beginning of the discussion. Yuri Anatoliyovich, please Karmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u108	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. We certainly had to adopt a law many years ago that actually implements the European Convention on the Basic Principles of Cross-border Cooperation between Territorial Communities or Authorities, signed on May 21, 1980. 13 years later, the Supreme Council ratified 1993. And it's only 23 years from now that we're going with you, and today we're looking at this bill. When asked, and yesterday gave a deep interview by the President about his deep views on standards, I would like the President to understand that just as much as his government, the Ministry of Justice is lagging behind in the development of these documents, just as far as we are from Europe: for 23 years in this case. Now, as far as this is concerned, examples of the negative example of Ambassador Ukraine in Poland, who did not promote cross-border cooperation, but, rather, disgraced Ukraine. I want to talk about other ambassadors. There is the Ambassador of Ukraine, our former parliamentary colleague, Anton Buteyko, who, in the face of his disagreement with the State’s policies aimed at oppressing Ukraine and its entry into the EP, who, in disapproval, was an ambassador to the United States, who, in disagreement with the government and the President’s line of destruction of his own producer, resigned. I also want to talk about a messenger like that, and there are ambassadors like that. So, with regard to specific comments, I will propose that this law be adopted in the first reading. [[Touching?]] But there are many serious comments. For example, the law states that cross-border cooperation is carried out by local communities and local executive authorities. But, that is, they are identified as cross - border cooperation entities. But Ukraine’s legislation does not have authority over local self - government. Let's either fill them in here, this law. And in general, this law is a complete set of slogans, there's actually nothing concrete here. Moreover, article 11 of the Public and Financial Support Programme simply provides that we will be sent to order approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. What, then, is the purpose of the law? If we're making a separate order. And there's a few references like that. There are also open - minded nonsensees recorded in the law. For example, in the same article, we read the 11th. They say that government and financial development support programmes agree with the special central authority of the executive body on economic policy, which we already have today, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as the central executive authorities, whose competence is the issue of cross-border cooperation. What kind of organs are they? What kind of organs do we have in the State to which this applies? There are no such organs. I want the government to know that there are no such organs in the state. Well, that's right, it's for Yanukovich and for those who were offering the project. So I feel that this law should be adopted in the first reading, with tremendous stress. And if you talk in a school system, in a twelve - ball system, that law doesn't even go three. This is such a weak law, but it needs to be adopted, and it needs to be filled with concrete meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u109	Puzakov Volodymyr Tikhovitch. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u110	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The adoption of this law dictates the urgency of time. It's to some extent the political image of our state, the need to develop socio-economic relations, technical relationships, good neighbourly relations between nations -- it's a requirement of time, it's a logical need for civilised development in Ukraine. The demand for time testifies to the following. For example, mutual trade, which is the main indicator of internal regional economic integration in SND countries, fell from 79 percent in 1991 to 26 percent in 2002. These are the consequences of the rapid changes in our premieres, the dissipation of a terrible amount of government funds, the shortsighted policy of the guarantor of the Constitution, which has led to unprecedented corruption and so forth. The proposed bill has a very important positive effect. On the one hand, it can be concluded that this law will be of a most declarative nature, but today Ukraine needs such a law. First. At least for this law to show the good of our nation. It's different. This law will work in unison in the prospect of a partnership in an economic relationship, a treaty that is signed in Crimea. On the other hand, some of the declarativeness of the bill is clearly specific. For example, article 1 of the bill opens up opportunities for interstate cooperation between territorial communities, local self-government bodies, local executive authorities. The proposed bill also highlights the general foundations of interstate cooperation that Ukraine should have. A positive point is the diversity of cross-border cooperation, such as ecology, culture, education. The law is correctly prescribed that cross-border cooperation coordination will be carried out by a specially authorized body of executives on economic policy issues. But I would consider it appropriate to add article 6 of the bill after the words "specially authorized central executive authority on economic policy" to the words "with the right to apply the sanctions provided for by legislation." In such a way, this rule of law will enable the appropriate authority to apply measures to improper cross - border entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u111	Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u112	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, radio listeners! Another bourgeois law has been introduced to the bourgeois Supreme Council. And I have to give a political assessment of its contents. First of all, the outside name is pretty attractive "Transcordon Cooperation," and if we go into the depths of the articles of this law, we're going to see what's first of all about cooperation on the western border and creating all kinds of obstacles on the eastern border. What makes you think that? Because the central authorities of the executive branch in the implementation of this law are recognized by the Ministry of Economics and European Integration, that is, Europeanism. And we shouldn't have any false ideas about it right here. This ministry will do everything in the hands of its minister to make this bill work in one direction only. And so when my colleagues from the eastern regions of Luhansk, the Donetsks turn to their reporters and try to find out if there are any obstacles. There will be obstacles. And don't do anything stupid that you don't understand. Poland has already introduced a visa regime since October 1, 2003 for citizens of the Russian Federation, Ukraine, and Belarus. Here's your European integration. So until this law rejects all the flaws that brake or dampen the entry of Ukraine and our border regions into the only economic space in the East, in that way we cannot support this law. Here's the thing. Let's count it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u113	One minute, Andrew School and we'll be done. And because we're done talking in five minutes. Try it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u114	I'll try to get in. Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. I would like to stress that this bill on cross-border cooperation is a law, if we do, it will only work if the terms, figures and figures are clearly stated. And now there is a bill on cross-border cooperation between the EU and neighbouring countries on the table in the European Parliament. And that's where the 30km code is written, 30 kilometers of cooperation between the EU border, and deep down in Ukraine, or any other partner, EU neighbours. And here we have to make it clear that if we want to pass a systematic law in this situation, we have to say that cross-border cooperation with all Ukrainian neighbours will be, as a minimum, Ukraine’s administrative centres. Are these going to be the district centers that would be the worst, or are they going to be the district centers, or the area that would be the best and the best. It would be optimal on all borders, on the east, on the west, on the south, and on the north. So this is clearly, I want this to be recorded for the protocol as amendments to this bill. Without it, accepting this bill as a law is just a good initiative. But in fact, there will be no legislative provision for this bill. And believe me, from this day forward there have been introduced free visas between Ukraine and Poland. And now all the residents of the surrounding territories are experiencing problems as well as getting cars. And especially in the Lviv region, I want to get to the bottom of this, this visa costs $100, but it's free. This is to avoid standing in line, to get it clearly and quickly by the end of this year, as a minimum, so that the visa will work. So what I'm stressing is, in order for the law to work, it has to write geographical and digital boundaries. So we have to make, we have the administrative division of Ukraine, and we have to recognize that cross-border cooperation has to be done in the area. And it's allocated under this bill to the law of cross-border territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u115	Thank you, Andrea. The draft Law on Cross-border Cooperation, registration number 3472, has been completed. The relevant decision will be made in accordance with the Rules. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act is being announced for consideration, a new edition. Project registration number is 3651. Dear colleagues, a group of developers assigned me to speak, so I have to go to the rostrum and not say it from here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, a draft of the new TV and radio bill is proposed for your consideration. The law is extremely important. He represents himself, the body of the law represents such a folliant. Therefore, it is very difficult for all articles to describe all the provisions of this law. I'm only going to stop at the main factors. First of all, I would like to point out that the current law began to work in 1994. Thanks to the developers, he worked for almost 10 years. Even though his face has changed considerably over the years and the content of the field he regulates. And it is not surprising that a new quality of state - owned media, commercial, non - governmental, electronic, has emerged. And all of this has to be settled. And the main means that we have proposed in this law, the law cannot hold back the development that, unfortunately, is being delayed by some of its positions today. I mean, what kind of situation are we in? A national television information market has been formed, practical aspects of its regulation have been worked out, and there is an opportunity to really assess the prospects. First, on the basic features of this law. It's based on three components. First, it is built on the principles and requirements of European legislation. By the way, we are getting the final conclusions of our colleagues soon, but no meaningful part of them raises any doubt. The other one. The experience of practical implementation of existing legislation simply needs to be introduced into the body of an existing law. And the third. Outlooks for the development of the field in the context of globalization of information processes, inversions (?) media tools and new formats. So the main factor that characterizes this large law is systemic and codified. So it's not just the repairs, it's the new edition. What is more logical about the stages? - A clearly defined terminology; - structurally and logically set out the basic principles of public policy in the field of television and radio talk; - the functions and powers of the public authorities; - the guarantees and freedoms of broadcasting and the inadmissibility of abuse; - antitrust restrictions, protection of the interests of the national television producer; - the structure of national television and radio. I'm not describing all the points, but there's a lot of serious proposals, starting with the special status of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine. A new standard is introduced that forms a supervisory board. The Supervisory Board is formed of 17 members, nine of whom are delegated to the Council of the Supreme Council, four presidents, and four public organizations. So it's basically a new formula for how to approach such supervisory authorities. Another very important detail is the whole model of government regulation in the field of television and radio talk. I want to emphasize, this is regulation, not administrative administration, which is fundamental. Well, it's worth not stopping at the details, but there's a few ways to do it: first of 75 percent of the language, and the rest of the advertising stories, the sponsorship, and so on, and so on, the mechanisms and procedures are very clearly prescribed. Details of principles, mechanisms and licensing procedures. It's, unfortunately. is necessary for the day, because a very large number of lawsuits have been filed, which are characterized and motivated by lawsuits at the National Council, and they are the result of a misunderstanding of the matter. This law very clearly prescribes the procedure for the appearance of the application, the procedure for reaction by the National Council, the actual grounds for refusal of the licence, and very clearly the rules on which the legislative principles may be suspended. All of this is based on the basic principle of solely judicial consideration of matters. There can be no administration in this field. And that's very clearly stated in all of the points. As for the observations you have, this law of expert management is concluded. You can agree with a few serious suggestions, and I think that's exactly what these proposals are, because the work has been very long. But two contradictions I would like to make clear and point out, about television activities and regulation of cable network providers. This is a question of principle, cable networks for today, as far as everyone knows, have evolved naturally for a long time, and cannot be delayed by the introduction of very clear positions on how to regulate all speech positions. Thus, nine principles are proposed to regulate basic activities, relationships, and their work with local authorities, local self - government. And with regard to the frequency, our principle position, the entire copyright team, is that regulation must take place exclusively by the National Television and Radio Council. And the appropriate radio administration, it gives the National Council a list of the radio frequency, that is, it provides an opportunity for use. These factors are regulated exclusively by the National Council. As for the cable network provider, there are also clearly indicated distribution rights, retranslation rights, and there is a very clear consideration of the distribution of these concepts. The main difference is the funding rules. The expert committee notes that unfortunately, the authors suggested that the budget could not be considered. I deny this position, and I would like to point out that on page 13, the 13th of this article clearly indicates the limits of public funding, namely: the financing of state broadcasters, the budgeting of the State Budget is done only through government procurement. This is a principled position, since today the financing of state - owned television organizations is not based on clear public procurement positions. And there's not even a document to finance it. There's a clear balance between government and non-state funding, budgetary positions. And these principles allow us to talk about that we have a pretty new quality opportunity for development, not stagnation in the whole sector. I would like to point out that the basic document in the design of the project was the peer reviews of our European colleagues, once again. Therefore, this law requires the adoption of this session, for it is our responsibility to join European organizations — WTO and others. That's why I'm finishing up. And I'm ready to answer your questions, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u117	Please. I realize that we have something so interesting today. But please sign up. And I'm going to answer it in order. Andrew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear reporter, well, the topic of cable television and cable television providers has already been covered. But still, because there is a warning. I understand that the market has been unregulated, but cables, or service providers, are warning that all those who engage in entrepreneurial activities in Ukraine are fearful of regulatory laws. I mean, I asked you to dispel their fears more deeply. And the second. Nevertheless, there is a separate focus on the status of national radio and national television. Because now we've practically lost English on medium frequencies. Whether the law regulates. I just wanted the radio to hear it. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u119	Thank you, Andrey. First, the regulation of cable networks. There will be no complication in the activities of networks that are built on common standards. The regulation applies exclusively to the licensing of the right to speak. So they have to set up clear procedures, make an application, and be governed solely by an application principle. If they do, then the violation must take place only in judicial form. And it's very rigidly regulated and even limited to the rights of the National Council to stop the activities of the television company, which today is not clearly prescribed, in which case there should be a court in which case there might be a remark. This sets out five basic principles on which observations and appeals may be made. You realize that this involves promoting violence, fascism, and so forth. So this isn't about technological functions, if they're built on rights, if they're not violating, they're not interfering with the content of the transmission, they're acting exactly like a provider, a distributor, a transponder. There are no complications. And the second question is about the status of the national television company. We really came up with a lot of such warnings about this part. You know, all the complications that the Supreme Council's relationship with the National, in fact, the television company, not the radio company, so it's a very clear written-out system as recommended by the head and recommended by the head of the National Television Company for today's document that the supervisory board, which will be made up of 17 people, is making proposals to the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council is proposing to the President. The president's signing. But the proposals will come out of the Supreme Council regarding and the heads of the National Television Company, the National Radio Company of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u120	Fucking Communist faction. Pass it to Sinchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u121	Alexandre Alexiovich! Deputy Sinchenko, 109 constituency, faction of the Company. Please tell me, we have a cable TV operator in Kiev called Will.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u122	"The will of the cable."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u123	As far as I can tell, it's almost the only TV product that broadcasts. Now they've doubled their fees for their services. Tell me, whether it's true or not, what's the capital behind this organization and why in their product, for example, in other cities, you can see the Eurosport channels, the Discovery channels there. There is no such thing in Kiev. And the tariffs are rising anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u124	Thank you for asking. The question is very right, and it applies to millions of our television audiences. I want to answer, since it is not the legislator’s business to regulate, to find out with a particular speaker the question, but I think there is more to do than make comments to these speakers and providers and cable network organizers. This law requires limiting monopolism in all our fields. This is the radio industry. So the point is that one speaker can have limited networks of his own size and set the rules with which he forms his software product. It's not the absolute will of an exclusive organization that runs these rules. Well, let's say there's an appropriate number of air speakers, state television companies, air radio companies, ratios. So these rules have to be pretty clear, and they're here. I wouldn't go into detail, but it's the legislative issue that we've settled quite clearly. It's a separate subject of conversation and you know, we haven't settled yet, so I'm going to try to spend 30 seconds on this question of yours, because you're talking about capital. We have legislation on the participation of foreign capital. Requirements for foreign capital participation allow 100 percent to form stockholder societies, limited liability societies with foreign capital. There are serious warnings that in fact the founders of television organizations are not the people who claim their attitude toward television organizations. We tried to write in these standards absolute requirements for radio organizations when it applied for licensing, the corresponding data given on financial requirements, the composition of the equity capital and so on, if changes in the factors are fixed and applications are submitted to the body in which they were made. So all the formal legislative, regulatory processes are prescribed. And it remains for the organs, starting with the National Council and ending with local self-government, to act clearly on these principles that are proposed by law. I'm sorry I've been so long.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u125	Alexandre Alexiovich. Mikola Tomenko. I understand that I'm about to express my position, the position of the committee as co-reporter, so please give my word to my colleague from the People's Choice of Vasile Farrague.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u126	Dear Alexander Alexievich! Here are the approaches that you have expressed that the bill regulates how licences are issued, regulates how licences are reported to be withdrawn. In your responses to the questions, you said that the broadcasting language system was regulated. That's understandable. I have a question that might be a little vague, but he's actually very concerned about those who watch television directly and listen to the radio: what are the moral and ethical standards and how will they be tracked? Because it's not a secret, not just because there's some gang show that's behind this case, but they're sometimes chasing honest pornography. And here's all these fig leaves like badges, reds, blues with circles and triangles, well, it's childish pranks. The State must control how and how the public is being manipulated by the media, in this case radio and television. That's the subject I'm worried about. I think she's worried about our listeners, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u127	Thank you. Well, that's a very important question. And I may have been able to answer it for a long time because there are some articles here. Let me put it this way. First. Significantly reinforced regulatory functions of government procurement are prescribed by the functional principles of public policy. The ratio of speaking not only to formal rules, that is, how much in one language, how much in another language, on what grounds this is done, but also the main and quality of the product. Because on application, the appropriate organization reports that it's doing this part of its speech in terms of children, that part of it in other areas. But then we don't see that kind of situation. I want you to track that on the air, and that's where the proposed standards are, when the organizations are monitored, the corresponding calculations are made, as they are done. And organizations keep information about their speech for 20 days after a broadcast has taken place. I've already told you about the public councils that are being introduced into the national company on the television board. It's all about increasing the dialogue between public organizations and radio speakers. Well, the limitations of monopolies also have to be very important, because they are clearly limited exclusively in the territory by one license and only one language. So we're trying to work out a few of these possibilities here. Although once again I would like to say that, unfortunately, there is a contradiction. We want more democracy and less regulation. Still, we try not to contradict it. And an increase in democratic principles, but a clear regulation of the requirements that apply to broadcasting.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u128	Let's address the head of the Mikola Committee of Volodymyrovich Tomenko. We've already used my Rules. Mikola Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u129	Mikola Tomenko, head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Dear colleagues, a few more things before Alexander Zinchenko's report are very important that I wanted to hear here. First. In 10 years, we've actually come up with the agreed text of the laws, where you see the majority representatives and the minority representatives. This does not mean that we have all agreed on the conflicts that existed in this field. But we came up with a document that I think is not embarrassing, and yesterday I had a meeting with the experts of the Council of Europe's Council of Ministers, who had prepared the previous conclusions, they were positive. The final conclusion will be given on October 10 for the second reading. Second position. What's really important is that we've actually moved away from that discussion that's been going on for the last 3-4 years, that every field of television has a separate law. I think that was the wrong way, and maybe we'll go forward with it someday, but we need to make a new version of the basic law now, where we can write down the principles of standards that would fit in 2003. And the law was passed, as you know, in 1994. Third position. We have prescribed in the law the things that are most debated today and that are most not being done. A few moments that Alexander Zinchenko didn't talk about, which are in the law, and they're extremely important. First. That's all there is to regulation or influence information policy. It's the right to correction, it's the right to answer, it's the right of television to respond to the content of what goes on television. So today we see absolutely classic examples of double standards, where, for example, there are some sociological surveys that are considered not to be cited. For example, four companies have already conducted surveys where 85 per cent of citizens are opposed to having the President elected by Parliament. These polls are banned, and unfortunately, the leader of the parliamentary majority, an authority lawyer, says that they are ordered, some bandits there must have paid for them, not the opinion of the people. And at the same time, other surveys mean how much the EP supports, day and night, is broadcast on television, although, frankly, we would ask Ukrainian citizens, because I doubt that the presidents of Ukraine and Russia are saying that these are already the dark national MPs of Ukraine who have not read that little agreement. To ask our citizens if they want us to sign a deal where the weight of the vote of Ukraine is 10 percent, and the weight of the vote of Russia is 80 percent, then I think we would get some more or less adequate results. So in the law we don't write these little things, but the format of normal civilized information policy in this law is, just as in this law there are rights, the rights of people who work on television for the first time. Today you know that the situation is that actually any person can be released from a television company, and it's hard to say why and how can they protect their rights? This social moment of the law is extremely important, and we've taken it, it's not an idea, it's from traditional and professional, and it's from other legislative acts in European countries, where, for example, a journalist can give up. When he's given an assignment to make some sort of order material, he's entitled, and that's not the responsibility of his dismissal, because it's his right as a citizen, a journalist. He has the right to object to the amended version, he has prepared the option, the editor has completely erased some moment from this and, by the way, I know that even the history of our debate at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has been very actively edited here and so on. However, a journalist has the right to refuse the authorship and publicly state that it is not his material, he is not responsible, and let the company be responsible. And at the end of the day, a couple of things that are focused on this, because I've looked at the messages that were about the Parliamentary Assembly meeting of the Council of Europe, and, frankly, I'm a little bit surprised. It seems that I have read several publications that the Parliamentary Assembly has been considering the status of gays and lesbians in Ukraine. There was, indeed, one position, one small row, and so the press wrote that it was as if there were MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly who didn't know the situation in Ukraine, and they didn't take anything. I hope that both the Voice of Ukraine and other media outlets will print a resolution where a sufficiently harsh assessment of the situation in Ukraine, a sufficiently severe assessment of pressure and influence, media control and freedom of speech, where a very positive assessment of the Supreme Council's activities in the field of legislation and freedom of speech, but where there is a misunderstanding why the laws in this country are not being implemented. And I think if we adopt this law, it'll give us one more step to move to Europe, move on to civilized standards, and we don't have such nonsense in print media, like today's famous newspaper called "The Desktop News." I know that we, in Ukraine, have problems with the presidents of the National Television Company, so it happened that once people got there, this position might be inappropriate at the professional level. So, former National Television President Vadim Dolganov wrote how the Parliamentary Assembly works, and he's been there a long time, you know, he works there as the man of our representative on the Council of Europe. So he wrote an article that confused the names of two top officials -- the head of the Europarliament of Pete Cox and the heads of PARE Peter Scheder. I mean, I don't know that in a country somewhere in a serious newspaper, two of the highest officials in Europe could be confused. Well, you don't know or mix your face up. He has been sitting there for three years, Dolganov, describing the activities of the Parliamentary Assembly. That is why I think that if we move forward and in legislation, that kind of slaps and warnings about freedom of speech will not be accepted by the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u130	Mikola Volodymyrovich, please finish. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u131	We've got no queues, Mr. Jaroslav!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u132	Let me explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u133	Until 2004, no queue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u134	Budagyans, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u135	110th constituency, Budagyanz. I repeat my question. Please answer why we don't have operas on TV, operas, ballets, anything: concerts in Russia that are great, first-class artists, right? And when do we stop this vacchanal with movies that spread out our young people: banditry, violence, etc., etc.? And one last question. When will Wonderland be back at 7:00 like it used to be?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u136	Well, I'm re-addressing part two of the channel managers that showed it. I think they're going to react as a television player to your argument, because they have to take into account the interests of television viewers and put the programs they watch. As for the first question, it's a really serious question, because, for example, today our committee is looking at budgetary issues, like all committees, and we have, well, not much, and the National Television is asking for 29 million dollars. And above all, it is the responsibility of those radio organizations that are funded by the budget to show socially important things, especially what is called a mass culture: classical music and so on. And today we're going to talk to the heads of the National Television, how this money is used, how they plan to use it. This is the first position. The second position is about violence. You know, we're on Thursday, if, God forbid, we come, we've prepared a law to protect social morality in the second reading, and I hope that the session room will support us, our position, where we're laying more clear and clearer standards of responsibility for actually illegal display, let's say in the daytime or evening of those movies that contain signs of violence, there, and everything else that's not allowed to travel licenses. I mean, I think we're gonna move up here and Parliament will do it. It's going to leave only the Nacrad and the Ministry of Culture in control. And the mechanisms of responsibility are clear and clear: warning and disqualifying those channels that do not.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u137	Barts, Postfaction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u138	Dear reporter, distinguished fellow national MPs! We know that in parallel with this law, we are considering a new edition of the National Council on Television and Broadcasting Act, which was already adopted in the first reading. At the end of the project, it is suggested that quite a few changes be made to the National Council on Television and Radio. Is it not more appropriate to take all the proper comments into account, not in the old law, but in the new law? Or should we even consider these questions in the package? How do you feel about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u139	We were thinking, and Alexander Alexiyovich and I were talking, thinking. It's very difficult to do that on a regular basis. Of course, it was an ideal option -- a new version of the television and radio bill and a new version of the project law to look at in a package. But since we're a living organism, the Supreme Council, and it's very difficult to synchronize what law we're considering, so that's how we do it. You know, we're doing a new draft of the board of directors right now, but we're preparing very clearly, in sync with the motion of the television and radio bill. So I don't think we're going to have a gap at all. What's more, the situation looks like this, with the conflict, with the new conflict in Nacradis, which has reemerged, that we're going to speed up both of us, and the second law, in order to regulate, and the Nacradu would work as required by legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u140	Hell-bent, "Regions of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u141	Would you be kind enough to say, please, that law will expand the number of television companies or consolidate the monopoly? First question. Second. What will happen to the adoption of this law with regard to telejournalists, especially those who are talented and principled? Another question I'm interested in. It's a matter of advertising fees. Do you know how they pay for this ad in civilized countries and how we get paid? Shall we leave the shadows? And one last question. Do you think this law can be enacted? If not, why?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u142	I do not see serious warnings against such a law being adopted on the first reading. I know that those warnings are going somewhere or they're going through the parliamentary majority, and I'd like to tell my colleagues from the parliamentary majority that there's nothing here against the President or against the power and so on. This law is written for both the field and the television audience. Therefore, there is no need to be afraid to support him in his first reading. Moreover, the copyright team is balanced by the majority and minority. It's about advertising. We're going to be discussing today the implementation of the new version of the Advertising Act. We are concerned that the new edition is not being carried out today. But in this editorial that we've adopted with you, and the President has signed very clearly the standards of hidden advertising, unconscionable advertising, where in fact the shadow part of the filling of the money of specific people has been. So today we just have to do this. And I'm convinced that if the standards are met, the official funding of television companies at the expense of advertising will increase significantly, and the receipt of undiscovered advertising will decrease significantly. By license, there's a clear definite position: one, one, one license. And we're going to make sure that there are no other licenses. I've already told you about journalists. I'm convinced that after the adoption of this law, the story is that journalists will learn from the press the same way that some government officials, that they've been removed from their jobs, there will be no such cases, because a journalist will have the right to sue the court for such dismissal from his work by a radio organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u143	Slata, the Agrarian Party. The last one.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u144	Slata Victor, Starrobešovsky district 66, Donetsk district. Dear Mr. Mikolo! I understand you're asking such fundamental questions, deep down on TV. But that's the banal thing. Here are the veterans in the district, and "Today is the Day of the Elderly," they say, "Dictionaries have a tendency to keep talking in a nutshell. Practically a healthy person simply does not catch or less information, or somewhere, just the elderly people say: almost nothing, we switch gears. Is there any point of view in this regard, need?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u145	By the way, we thought of what's called Ukrainian information policy, which is a lot of warnings. Now we're looking for a way to, let's say, maybe all the information policy standards, the news policy is more transparent, for example, every channel has an appropriate website and the ability to communicate with people like people would want this news policy to change. So in the law, we can't write things like that, but the way that the viewer influences it, in principle, in the law we make it. In fact, direct TV calls to the television company, and the television company would have to respond. So I think that in fighting for a viewer, television companies have to think about things that are important enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u146	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin,
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u147	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Of course, the bill submitted by Zinchenko, Tomenko, Artemenko, Bagraev, Jaborovsky is certainly a step forward. But I'm afraid we're going to see it that way. neither have they seen things that are very serious and that are not meant to be in this law. What do I mean? My point is that the activities involved include providers as intermediaries in the provision of software. What's a provider? This "intermediate" and the legalization of it here in this law will inevitably lead to double licenses, increase the entire product, make everything more expensive for the people. That's how we legitimize speculation. Let's legitimize it. And let us not see that this is contrary to international practice, the European Convention on Transborder Television, which we will now ratify, because we have committed ourselves to the Council of Europe. Next. I see that in some articles of this project there is an attack on rights, including the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For example, in article 19 of Part 2, you write: "Any direct budgetary maintenance of public authorities' radio organizations is prohibited, except in cases provided for by law, direct or indirect financing of them by political parties." And so on. I'm telling you clearly that this article can be called "The Promotion of the Oligarchs," because they have all the television, and the state has all the TV. I'd like to ask you, Mr. President of the Supreme Council. And the authors of this bill. Where the journals on UT-1 of the Supreme Council were made very professional. Where did they go? How did you get the opportunity to determine what to give for you today? And you don't give these journals. You're also destroying the copyright program. You've confined it to the level of Kiev. Maybe then just to the level of this room, let's just limit it. So, in my opinion, this article is inappropriate. It's very good that you're proposing to the National Television Company of Ukraine, to do national work, to create a different and national radio company on a different principle, and to assign a different head to do a public council there. But where does the President have the authority to appoint the head of the Ukrainian National Television? Where is such authorization stipulated in the Constitution? The President has no such authority in the Constitution. The fact that he's using these powers today, he assigned himself, without the President's Law, I insist that this law should be. This has led us to treat our country with what is bad today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u148	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u149	I know it's not my time, it's the totalitarian regime. We've been in trouble all the time today, and when I'm out of time, not me, but in totalitarian mode, you start to remind me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u150	Vladimir Puzakov. You're always disciplined within the limits of the rules. I ask you to keep following him. Vladimir Puzakov, a faction of Communists, will be the next to speak by Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u151	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The need for adoption of this law came a few years ago. The law adopted in 1994 did not cover the main orientations and problems of the development of the television information sector in a meaningful way, since there was virtually no nonstate television and radio broadcasting at the time of its adoption in Ukraine, and the national television information market was just beginning to form. TV sets are waiting for a new law, pouring out their anger and resentment on daily television. I personally came to the conclusion that the TV set did not receive the law they had been waiting for for for so long. For example, article 4, which states: The State does not allow for systematic targeted, unwarranted attention or positive submission, treatment in information and other radio programmes of war, violence and cruelty. Is that true? What do we see every day on TV? War, murder, fraud, fornication, robbery. And whatever channel you turn on, it's the same everywhere. And article 5 says that the censorship of the information activity of a television organization is forbidden. Teleradio organization is independent of the content of programs and broadcasts, which is not affected by the law by the involvement of public authorities or local authorities in the professional independence of the organization. Why lie to people about censorship and noninterference? Although Dmitri Tobacco himself, censorship is even in European countries, which is a reference to freedom of speech. So why shouldn't we have it? But do we have that freedom of speech, Mr. Tobacco? Well, try to get on the radio to make an announcement about a demonstration on November 7th or some other action by the communists. But last night, in Kiev, there was a campaign to protect the veterans, so at 12 o'clock, it was reported that there were about 12,000 people on the stock, and in the evening program "Details" there were 3-4. Is it that the president's failure has been called a true figure? I think everyone knows that it's the President's Administration that gives instructions on how to explain things, and in what way to show someone. Conclusion one: Today’s regime is capable of nothing but dictatorship and total abuse of the radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u152	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u153	Vladimir Yavorowski, Lvivščina, Yavorowski and Žovkovsky, Committee on Freedom of Speech. Dear colleagues, you realize that I am very kind to this bill because I am a co-author myself. We worked very well at the head of Alexander Zinchenko, who knows from the inside all the nuances of today's TV channel "Inter" and along with many other channels. We tried in this law. I will not repeat what my colleagues Tomenko and Zinchenko have said, we have tried simply this law, understanding that it is far from ideal and that it radically does not change the situation of freedom of speech in Ukraine, but at least considered it an obligation to bring into some legislative framework that chaos, the insolence with which the authorities today privatized and used a pervasive environment, as it were privatizing today's information space in Ukraine. Take the last of the events in Lviv. It could have been a normal, objective, activating fact, as it were. Well, I looked through the channels, you know, authorities, esdeks brought around a man from 30-40 some completely oblivious people, that's, unshaved, half drunk, surrounded by militia, and they were holding some kind of password there, meaning, in support of the esdeks and so on. Of course, the people then there were a little bit out there and all that. Television only showed the same thing. Because of that, when we vote in favour of this law, we're going to put a little bit of pressure into some legal way, at least we're going to. The law pedals the question of what should be in Ukraine’s public television, which is and is around the world. And the State, the authorities, should speak to the customer in the same way as others, such as those who want to promote, say, their information. This is what we tried to do in this bill. I think so. It should be accepted in the first reading. We are ready to accept all the wise adjustments that will be made. And we're convinced that's the way it's supposed to be. And to answer, let's say these very lionish events, where the question is that "Our Ukraine" is supposed to be anti-Semitic there, I'm going to read it to you. There is such a beautiful Ukrainian poet, a Jew of nationality, Moses Fishbein, who lives in Germany, now lives in Ukraine, so he writes, "Those who fight with Yushchenk must change the people." Viktor Andryovich is not only supported by Ukrainians. I was touched by an elderly Kiev Jew: "Who will you vote for in the presidential election if the vote is popular and not inclusive?'--I asked him. - "You're still asking? Of course, for Yushchenka." "Why?" - I asked. - "You look at this guy, he's got a Jewish head!"
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u154	Oh, one minute. Please, Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, Victor Yushchenka's block, "Our Ukraine", Boris Bespali. I think it's enough that there are presidential jails that say we don't give a word, and it's almost impossible to discuss it in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u156	I'm asking you to stop this insinuation or I'm gonna turn off the microphone. Don't fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u157	So four men should even take part in a brief discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u158	I say again, The time is set for this; and you, do not engage in fornication, but do what is right for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, of course, discuss it. Yeah, there's still a minute on the line, of course. It's impossible to discuss 57 pages of small font in a meaningful way, but I think that when we prepare for the second reading, we will be able to process all the articles of this bill carefully, and so I think I will take this opportunity to express my view of the individual articles. In particular, it raises doubts and budget funding that enables, say, authorities to bribe journalists. But even then, I'd like to take a minute on the line, because here I was, like all of you respectful listeners, hearing such a warning on the part of the chairman. I don't think that's quite right, because the law that deals with freedom of speech should at least be discussed freely at least in the Supreme Council. We need him here to be discussed in full, not in summary. But even under the reduced procedure, there are at least four speakers. Now only three men participated in the discussion. What does that say? It's about the fact that there's a click in the microphones of MPs, even in the Supreme Council. That's not quite right. And besides, I don't think anyone needs to confuse the veto into a bill and a veto on freedom of speech. After all, it's not about whether MPs can speak, it's about what information our radio audiences and, in fact, all Ukrainian citizens should receive. And from this point of view, I think it's very important to adopt a bill that in this case meets European standards for the formation of radiospace. A very important positive idea is social radio and social television, where people would be able to freely choose the sources of information they choose. Because, well, there's no secret that today's media are very often transformed into mass agitation and sometimes into mass misinformation. And sometimes it's like life -- it's moving by itself, there's laws on its own, and there's a distortion of television in itself. And for today, there was this observation, well, I don't know, on the part of the chairman that we, well, really don't have any political censorship. Meanwhile, everyone knows that the sphere, the most technological, progressive, is at the hand administration of the President's Administration, well, true, praise to God, only 393 days before that. And then not only the Council of Europe experts will be able to appreciate our law. Well, you, your esteemed radio listeners, can now appreciate the freedom of speech that even national deputies in the Supreme Council use.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u160	Turn off the microphone. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that this question, and personally Boris Jakovič Bespalogo, has been considered in full procedure. And we're looking at this question for 48 minutes for 50 seconds. If you know the Rules well, this is in line with the rules. If you had any warnings and were present in the room at the beginning of this consideration, you should suggest another procedure for considering the matter. And don't use the word "clap" or anything like that in your mouth. Who's stopping you? You said everything you could. Let's be tolerant of each other. That's it! Question completed. The decision will be made in the light of the discussion. Let's move on to the consideration, personally, I emphasize, with a reduced procedure. A draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of Ukraine’s law on military law enforcement in the Armed Forces of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Reporter: Chief of General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine Zatinaiko Alexander Ivanovich. Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich, will be the focal point.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u161	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Ukraine's draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislation has been prepared by the Ministry of Defence to implement the requirements of Ukraine's Final Provisions Act on the Military Order of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. The purpose of its development is to introduce the statutes of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, other legislative acts of Ukraine, primarily with the Ukrainian Law on the Military Order of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and to improve the drafting of a series of articles of statutes, taking into account the experience of their practical application. To this end, the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence has drafted a bill to amend the three codes and seven laws of Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Thanks to your support, understanding of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this law was approved and adopted on May 15 of this year. During the drafting of this law, amendments to the statutes of the Ukrainian Armed Forces were not foreseen because of the large amount of necessary editorial changes that were urgently needed. Among the most important changes in the bill proposed for today's consideration, I would like to focus on the elimination of such a disciplinary bond as an arrest that complies with the requirements of article 29 of the Constitution of Ukraine and international human rights standards, primarily the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. The bill also clarified the mandate and responsibilities of the garrison’s superiors and officials. Introduced posts and assigned duties and rights of the deputy chief of garrison, the head of the garrison’s Office of Law Enforcement, the chief of the garrison’s financial services. The adoption of the bill today will enable the regularization of the day-to-day activities of commanders, supervisors, aimed at ensuring a high level of security, the rule of law in the Armed Forces, and respect for the constitutional rights of military personnel. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine examined the bill and made this observation. These observations are undoubtedly valid and included in the bill in its entirety. The bill received a positive assessment during the discussions on the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Its acceptance will not lead to changes in the social policy of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, nor will it require additional costs from the state budget of Ukraine. Please accept the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u162	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u163	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The adoption of this law is stipulated, as it has been reported, by taking into account the validity of the Law of Military Order in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, as well as the need to bring the statutes of the Armed Forces into line with the Constitution of Ukraine, the law mentioned, as well as with the requirements of international human rights standards. Our committee considers it possible to adopt a bill submitted by the government on the basis that, in preparing for the second reading, the scientific experts with whom national deputies are familiar, the proposals of other committees will be taken into account, and the disagreements that are in the project will be addressed. I think that in preparing for the second reading, we should also remove the inadequacy laid down in article 39 of the statute of internal service of the Armed Forces. Thus it is stated that when meeting high officials of direct military officials and others, one of two forms of appeal is used: a comrade general or a general. It is hard to imagine a country where different forms of addressing would be used in one army. Or it would be possible, let's say, this situation. The minister greets the military during the parade and says, "Friendly pilots! Comrade sailors! Comrade cadets!"and on his way up to the government stand, he declares, "Mr. President!".. But maybe in this country where the army has long become a peasant worker, it is: The President is the master, and everyone else is. If the bill is adopted as a basis, the committee will ensure that it is brought to the right level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u164	Let's move on to the discussion. Please state the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine" has a word. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u165	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Certainly those positions of the legislative acts that have been imposed on. aimed at the implementation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces statutes in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, other laws of Ukraine, primarily the Law on Military Order in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, to improve the drafting of a number of articles, should be supported. Certainly, I say, supported. But there are also some of the inappropriate things that George Kruczkov has just talked about, even though I personally think it would be better to use the word "sir." That would be in line with the world trend, the European trend, because the "gooder" are close friends, and the ones we write to, including the Ministry of Defense, which are masters. Like what? And very serious masters, in such a bad way. And I was addressing the Defense Minister with a parliamentary request for the embezzlement of a military town in Lviv on the street of the Princess of Olga. What do you think? It turns out his implementation of this military town is under way. Passes through authorized city organizations in Kiev. That's how I get the answer. So I think that maybe if all of this is arranged by the Chief of General Staff, maybe there's more order. Because something General Chernilevsky doesn't understand what he's doing when he gives up such serious things without seeing what's going on in the Lviv region. And the same people behind privatization are the same people behind tax administrations. And all of this in the state is getting some serious very serious signs. I'd like to see this eradicated in the Ministry of Defense. Now for specific comments. For example, in article 20, I will make these remarks, but article 20 provides for the right to carry and store, to use, and to use, regular personal weapons. But that gun bill I've been proposing for seven years, you don't want to take it. And the Ministry of Defense is in the way, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs is in the way. So how are we going to divide into regular and personal weapons that have already been made here in the bill? This is not found in the Weapons Law. What if the Law on State Rewards has a nameless weapon? So let's write "name," let's see that we have to adopt the Weapons Act. Let's count this whole weapon that is. And then it will be easier for military service, the rule of law in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, to order and fight deserters. And then our weapons, which are at the warehouses, will not shoot at our citizens. We need to pass the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u166	Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko's faction. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u167	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of Julia Timoshenko. I would, of course, also like to have a little discussion, which was offered here by Georgi Korniyovich in terms of masters and comrades. Of course, this is about a lack of social status to which the master refers. Because, unfortunately, it would be Russianism in this situation. In Ukrainian, the master is just a respectable person. Just like in German, I can hardly imagine anyone being approached by a Camrada, a colonel, let's say, or something like that. There are nuances here. Although with the rest, unfortunately, the generals were, in fact, no longer masters, but lords, if they could have spoken in the Ukrainian army at that time. Because the pensions they receive are somehow not even compatible with the salaries of today’s higher school teacher, which is, in principle, not consistent. But by going back to the body of the law, this was already pointed out, which is what I wanted to point out, too, about the distribution of weapons to the license plate and the license plate. Similarly, we can say here that there is a weapon of domestic use, domestic use and service, which is, in principle, unacceptable, when Parliament, as I have explained, and the entire Ukrainian public, the entire militia community, the entire public of the security service, is determined against the weapons of the population. So how can you then arm a private person, because a military officer without a uniform becomes a private person, an ordinary citizen. And on what grounds does he have a weapon? And in general, talking about the rule of law service in the Armed Forces, which is gratifying to agree with the European Convention on Human Rights, is being arrested, of course, anachronism, although frankly enough anachronism is produced by the Supreme Council, particularly the Supreme Council in its first reading supported the KPC, where the right to investigate the prosecution is provided for in the Constitution. So it's good that the initiative in this situation on the part of the Cabinet of Ministers is effective. Because I think this bill could be born from the top of the Supreme Council. Therefore, the bill should be supported in the first reading. I am confident that the committee will make appropriate adjustments. And frankly, these so-called cosmetic adjustments at first sight, they actually enhance the body of the law itself and allow it to be done clearly to those to whom it is directed. Because let's face it, this is an army that's used to carrying out clear orders. For when an order is inconceivable, it will not be carried out like the transfer of military towns. And it's already been said about the Lions, and I'll tell you more about the Cherlians. This was going to be a global resort, but in the transfer process, the army was able to successfully implement all the concrete plates on this resort, and now it can only be used as an agricultural arrangement. And only after destroying the premises, after destroying everything there is, are they going to hand over this military town to the district community, the district government. So in principle, I would like to see order everywhere, not just through the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u168	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. He'll be followed by Krutz.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, well-respected voters, distinguished Ukrainian soldiers, Sir General, Chief of General Staff! You know, the law on the introduction of special parts of our army and the rule of law, and before that, mention the law on railway forces. Sometimes you think, "Wait!" Which country am I living in?Oh, my God! What's going on? Instead of going to the implementation of existing laws, instead of going to the depths of reforming society, its democratization and so on, we're growing all the time, you see, we're talking about ourselves with some kind of strong structure, there's another thing. Above all, order and order do not increase in the military or the railway. However, I wouldn't be the kind of opponent who would now firmly ask the question that no, it's not necessary, we understand very well that there are deserters, we understand very well that an army is some little mirror of society and it has all the elements that pass through it. Because of this, it is understandable that this law may need to be adopted. But using that, I went up to the rostrum to let you know that my district in the Yavorov region is the largest military range in Europe. Do you know what kind of passions are there every time you teach? I am addressing you, Mr. Zatinaiko, and I am, by the way, ready to discuss it as a professor of higher education with a colleague who denied the word "sir." So let's think of something else. I know a few words in Ukrainian: "good-bye." I can only turn to someone I know clearly that he is a good person. Georgi Korniyovich, I'm willing to address you as a kindness, because you've done me no harm, and I haven't done you any harm. Let's just say that to people of some other kind, I'm not going to say good-bye to them, and I can't call them friends either. That's why there's a word like that. Believe it! Well, Adam, honey, I have a higher philological education, but you don't have one, and there's another. Well, believe me! God be with him! But I would like to say, Mr. General, you have certainly promised here at this rostrum that when a treaty is made for new military training, there will be a single line of environmental damage. And this money should go to the local budget. Look, you've ruined the situation in Yavor. I was a few days ago when we had a week's work in the districts, I was in this village of Verbljana. They're snorting every 5 to 10 minutes, the school windows are shaking. I don't know what my Ukraine makes of it, I don't know where that money goes. There's no service there yet, but the military beat up the people of this village yesterday. And as an MP, I just can't let it go, I have no right to do that. And I'm asking you an oral question right now. We will vote for this law, but go to work now, General, and immediately find out and do everything you can to prevent anything else from happening there. 120 children are already sick because of our teachings. I'm asking you very much to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u170	Mikola Krutz, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u171	Mikola Krutz, Ivano-Frankivsky, "Our Ukraine" faction. Honourable National MPs, this bill certainly deserves support because it is aimed at bringing the statutes of the Ukrainian Armed Forces into line with the Constitution of Ukraine and the recent adoption of the Law on Military Order in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to some of his positions that require meaningful and editorial clarification. So some of the inaccuracies of the project are due to the fact that certain issues remain unresolved at the legislative level today. It's about regulating the arms circulation, and that's what we're talking about here today. Several calls in a row cannot be passed by Parliament by the Arms Act, and it is the basis for regulating the main issues with its circulation. In particular, the issue of weapons remains undeclared by law. In view of this, it is not entirely legal for the internal service of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to determine the right to carry, store and use military personnel with military and personal weapons. In general, it's kind of clear what kind of weapon it is, which isn't. Yet today, the law does not say anything about what another type of weapon is — the personal weapon, which is the order of its acquisition and use. Therefore, these issues should be provided for in the statute only after they have been defined in the basic arms law. The following comment concerns the proposal to amend the disciplinary statute of the Armed Forces. In my view, by proposing that a military official be removed from office only in the event of failure, improper performance of duties that have already resulted in human sacrifice or damage to natural or legal persons, the authors of the bill failed to take into account the precautionary function of such sanctions. After all, there are times when such consequences have not occurred simply because rescue measures have been taken in time. Thus, it is appropriate to provide for the removal of an official from office, and also in cases where improper service obligations have created a real threat to the occurrence of dangerous consequences; and when such a person’s being in office may result in a recurrence of improper conduct and, hence, to possible victims and material harm. In general, the project should be supported and voted on in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u172	Georgi Korniyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u173	I wanted to make two lines. First. I saw how we were able to be present in the hall, to listen, to not hear, and to twist. One thing I said was, it's not normal when you have two different calls in one army. I didn't say why I preferred it. I've been talking about it. I don't have a higher education, and I'm sorry about that, but that's exactly what I understand. That's the first thing I wanted to say. And I'd like us to do that. And the second. Vladimir Mikhailovich, let's stick to the Rules and Procedures. Yeah, two-for-two-again. If you don’t mind, why continue and use the rostrum to read what scientific experts say?Oh, my God! There is a first reading procedure and a second reading procedure. The first reading identified the concept as appropriate or inappropriate. It's okay-- please make a decision, make suggestions. Why are we wasting our time? We have a huge number of drafts. And let's save this time! Vladimir Mikhailovich, it's up to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u174	Thank you. Let's take that into account, that's a very good point. But when he comes out and says that I'm in favor, that's against it, it's incomprehensible for it or against it, you know? Dear colleagues, the draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Military Order in the Armed Forces of Ukraine has been completed. This is document number 3642. Decisions will be made taking into account the discussion on the day of the vote. If you don't mind, would we consider another bill, maybe a 15-minute job, a morning session, no objections? Thank you. A draft law amending some of Ukraine’s laws on dangerous measures in the presence of the population is being announced for consideration. Reporter - Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Reva Grigory Vasilovich. The focal point will be the Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u175	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You will have before you a draft Ukrainian law amending certain Ukrainian laws prepared by the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Protection against the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster to carry out the Ukrainian President's mission of September 25, 2002, following an investigation into the causes of the accident of the Su-27 military aircraft at Sknilov Airport on July 27, 2002. The purpose of the draft law is to regulate the procedures for preparation, to carry out, with the participation of special forces, weapons and military equipment of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, other military formations and law enforcement agencies, potentially dangerous measures in the presence of civilians. The main provisions of the draft law are defined and refined powers of the central and local executives, and appropriate changes have been made to Ukraine's civil defence laws, the protection of the population and territories from emergencies, technological and natural disasters, local self-government, and local public administrations. The bill is accepted without notice with all interested ministries and departments. The implementation of the draft law does not require additional budget spending. The National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered the proposed bill at its meeting. Proposals, comments made by national deputies, are agreed upon and taken into account. The committee supports the adoption of the bill, so the Ministry of Emergency Situations is also asking you to support the amendments to the bill in this direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u176	Thank you, Gregory Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u177	Dear colleagues! Our committee believes that it is possible to adopt a government - sponsored bill that aims to create the necessary legal conditions, determine the responsibilities of executive authorities, local self - government authorities in providing security in situations where various types of weapons, military technology, are being carried out, and this creates a danger to life and health for the population. In line with the comments made by the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Environmental Affairs believes that in the drafting of the bill and preparing it for second reading, we should also take into account what has been shown by the recent tragic incident in the Barovara, the danger of dealing with weapons, especially explosives, can arise even when this is not related to mass action. And here it is important to strengthen responsibility, both in the military and in the local authorities. Not to be overlooked is the fact that since the time of the sknealing tragedy mentioned here, which has actually led to the need to develop the project, a year has passed. Likely, such laws should not be prepared at such a pace. On occasion, I would like to address this particular problem that is common in our country. On September 11th, the National Commission on Reform and Development of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, other military formations, arms and military equipment is meeting, and the military is deciding on the extent of the reduction of the Armed Forces. A proposal was made to draft the Ukrainian Arms Reduction Act, which was supported by the proposal. The solution is this: The Ministry of Defence, together with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, prepare proposals for the creation of a working group to draft such a law, prepare proposals for social protection of military personnel released in the process of reducing the forces of Ukraine, and continue the use of freed military towns. He's responsible for this kind of thing. October 15, 2003. It takes a month to prepare proposals for a commission. But is there anything that can be done in this country at such a pace? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u178	Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the discussion. Please state the name of the national MPs who signed up. Yuri Carmazin, please. Now, if you'd like to make your position clear -- "for" or "against."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u179	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I'd like to support this bill. We're really late for it. Right George Korniyovich. I'd like to point out that from this rostrum I've been paying attention to the minister from the extraordinary situation that in the center of Odessa there's a sulfuric acid warehouse. Two weeks later, disaster broke out. After my address. You know that. Thank God there's no casualties. But to the end, this has not yet been taken into account. The source of the danger is not recovered. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that article 1 of the Law on the Protection of the Population and the Area of Emergency Situations of a Technological Nature is complemented by a new paragraph on "Possiblely Dangerous Measures" -- measures taken in the context of the presence of the civilian population, with the participation of a special composition of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, other military formations and law enforcement agencies. In recent times, the movement of the President of Ukraine in the territory of the State is just such a potentially dangerous step. And that is to be predicted today, Georgi Korniyovich, at a meeting of your committee to consider. It is not possible to move or walk when the Presidential Guard is on the move. People are seen as enemies, weapons are running around, the President is protected so that I don't know. I'm ashamed of myself. Who's he hiding from? From whom to hide the President? That's why it's right that they're complementing "potentially dangerous measures, measures that are being taken under the conditions of presence." But you have to limit the eagles somehow. And look at the cars and they're all coming! Now I'd like to take this opportunity to get Presidential decrees to raise wages in all power structures. They're hidden. As a national MP, I can't get them, and I need to explain something to the voters. Why didn't the teachers get promoted, and the President's orders gave them a promotion. I want to understand why the major of appropriate service should receive more than a professor, a director than a scientist is serious than a deputy at the end and a lot of important people. Next. Dear National Deputies! Changes are being made, a new article in the Law on Local Government Administrations. It is supplemented by article 21 of the Prime Law. The content is: "Responsibility in the field of protection of the population." And so on. But, dear friends, we have to write "obligations" of government administrations. And ask them what they owe. And we're just their authority, their authority. I suggest you write "obligation." And to frame them just because they don't do what they need to do, this incident took place on shells in Barbara. Where were the commitments? That's why it's happening right now in the Yavorov region. What they have no obligation to do, there is no obligation in these governmental bodies. Thank you for your attention. I'd like to take that into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u180	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Is he gone? Taras Cranville. None. Basil Nadrag. Will you be speaking, Vasily Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, I agree that this law should be. It must be at least because we must understand clearly the situation when and how and who should ensure the security of the population accordingly. On this basis, there are several proposals to follow up on what is being proposed as a bill today. First. It is necessary, in my view, that the decision to conduct and ensure the security of these activities should not be taken at the village councils, city councils, and the structure is very invertible. It holds, for example, a session of a large city, which will be held only once a quarter. Life is a little mobile. I think these powers can be given to the executives. Mobilely and at the same time, so to speak, responsibly. Next moment. Deeply convinced that the law should provide for a single local authority, the central executive authorities, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, but one must make a final decision within the framework of whose authority it concerns the place of conduct, security, the involvement of the forces and everything else. It must be collected in one hand. Only then will such activities be safe. And the last. It fully agrees that the law sets out the problem of extreme situations, both technological and natural, when it comes to attracting the full potential of the territory, more, less, in this case, no matter if we talk about the safety of the population. This is particularly relevant, I believe that this topic needs to be strengthened in law under second reading, this is a relationship with operators in the event that a complex situation, particularly natural, is approaching. In my personal experience, I know how difficult it is to work with operators when they start talking, for example, about flood issues. You start to convince, prove, they tell you about economic feasibility and everything else. I therefore believe that, in these matters, we must give more authority to the Ministry to attract economic potential of economic operators in the event of a critical situation of technological and therefore more natural management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u182	Thank you. You "for" means. Who's against it? Andrew Schlell. Do you mind? Please. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u183	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to point out that in an editorial like this, especially here, I would like to refer to an additional article that introduces these changes -- this is the Law on Local Government Administrations, which should be supplemented by article 211, where the right to conduct, i.e. the responsibility for carrying out these measures, is translated into local district administrations. So it was just like the skunk tragedy that the responsibility for what happened was to try to translate into the mayor of the city that gave permission to carry out such an action. That's why I don't see the need. What are we up to here? What are the consequences of the disaster that took place on Sknilov? So at the moment, we don't know who's responsible for what happened. Who should be held accountable? Pilots? Organizers? Or is it the one who gave permission? So I would suggest this 211 article, if I add, only because the local authority has veto power can it prohibit such shares or not prohibit them. And all responsibility rests on those who lead. If it's a military parade or military training, or if it's a demonstration of the Lithuanians, there's no problem, but all the responsibility, the court, the law and whatever else is being carried out by the Ukrainian Armed Forces, that is, the organizers, not the one who gives permission. Is that not understandable? And for what it was for then to write what is, in principle, just to detail, to define. And when it's said there's something going on, it doesn't really work out. It's just a problem. But it must be answered. There's no answer here. And I would like to point out that, of course, it is necessary to have a law that regulates such measures. And here you can have another technological catastrophe, a lot to throw up, but if we say that a year after a terrible tragedy took hundreds of lives and how many have made them physically and mentally disabled? To this day, the effects have not yet healed on the body of the nation that took place in Sknilov. I personally arrived there one of the first, and I saw just the atmosphere of this catastrophe after it all happened. And I have to say that those responsible should be named. Now, even if the law doesn't have reverse power, but if you imagine that it has reverse power, no one will be responsible. And I'd like to make the law clear, and you suggested, I'd suggest to the MPs the most, that it would be for re-reading, and that it would be for re-reading, and that it would be for reforming, that it would be a clear responsibility, that the one who runs it would be responsible for all the legal and criminal responsibility, not the one who gives the permission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on dangerous measures in the presence of the population has been completed. The decision will be made on the day of the vote, taking into account the discussion. Why don't we go over another bill if we want to? Please, let's talk briefly, let's make a decision. We've got five minutes left, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u185	Suggested for consideration. Says Alexander Frost. A draft law on the specificities of the draft laws amending the Constitution is proposed for consideration. You remember in July the conflicts in this regard, you remember the Constitutional Court’s finding that this should be regulated by law, we will take the appropriate decision. And in accordance with this ruling, and in accordance with this regulation, several draft laws on constitutional changes are being drawn up at the Constitutional Court, and draft legislation is being prepared. He was twice discussed on the committee, and some comments were made. We agreed on a committee that by the second reading we would take all the comments into account. The specificity of this project, which it foresees is consistent with the Constitution of this law, transparency of procedure, transparency of procedure, transparency of procedure and discussion of the draft amendments to the Constitution, and the urgent nature of these matters before the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's all I can say for that matter. I propose that we support this project in the first reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u186	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, this is in the development of our commission given by the Supreme Council to consider this document. The position of the committee will now be made public by Mikola Dmitrovitch Catherinechuk. Please, Mikola Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u187	Mikola Dmitrovich Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine" faction. Before I go to comment on the committee's decision, I would like to point out that there is another bill that I am the author of on this issue. The purpose of my bill, which is also aimed at settling matters regarding the referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the question of whether the bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine was compatible with the requirements of articles 157, 158, was that, indeed, the latest events of the last week of the previous session had shown that the issue was very acute. At least we remember Parliament’s attempts to address this issue in the past. Unfortunately, they ran into the President's veto. We hope that our working together with Alexander Alexander Moroz will give some impetus to resolving this issue at the legislative level. My proposal on the substance of this bill is to give us the right to direct, let's say, what's real. The subject of the legislative initiative set out in articles 154, 156 of the Constitution of Ukraine, is the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who gives a five-day deadline, who submits to the Constitutional Court conclusions on the compatibility of the bill with the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Yes, indeed, this issue has been settled today by the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of July 11, 2003, mentioned by Alexander Alexandrovich. But I would like to draw attention to the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, where, with regard to my bill, there is such a thesis that the bill is legally acceptable, such a way of settling the issue. But the Scientific and Experimental Authority points out that these rules should still be laid down in the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act. However, pending the adoption of such a law, it is in a temporary manner possible to resolve this issue in connection with the procedure for the consideration of draft laws. But somehow the general conclusion is, let's say, the Chief Expert Office is the same as Alexander Moroz's bill, which is to send for rereading. The Committee on Legal Policy considered these two bills and recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the position of the draft Ukrainian Law on the order of referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the question of the compatibility of the bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine with the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine, introduced by the Ukrainian National MP Catherinechuk, to take into account in the draft Ukrainian law on the specificities of the draft laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine, introduced by the National MP Alexander Moroz in preparing it for second reading. [[I'm very short.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u188	Thank you, too, Mikola Dmitrovich. Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss this issue? Who's up against or who's up for it? Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. I would like to see the name of the national MPs who signed up for this presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u189	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have a bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine in connection with the settlement of the activities of the Chamber of Auditors of Ukraine. People who do not want Ukraine’s state budget to be diverted do not want Ukraine’s Court of Auditors to exercise control, think about the coming costs of the state budget! It's not spending, it's spending! And it's someone who's very smart to push the President to veto it! He vetoed the voted amendments to the Constitution! This is ridiculous! What the Constitutional Court does. There are so many respectable people out there. But he bent his back after the President's decree to double their salary, by the way, also a secret decree, which is now laid down as a rule in the state budget, and it's okay! The fact that five times more than each national MP will pay is no one’s concern! No risk, no nothing. I just sat in my office, and I sucked out of my book, and I wrote, and I got a phone call, and they said, "Yeah, Victor Volodymyrovich, yeah, it's gonna be done!"and everything, and it has been concluded that the veto can be vetoed, you can veto changes to the Constitution. The main difference between Alexander Moroz's bill is where he clearly writes in article 11: "with regard to the bill on amendments to the Constitution adopted by the Supreme Council in accordance with Chapter 13 of the Constitution, the veto of the President is not applicable." And that's brilliant. That's right. That's all it took, Alexander Alexanderovich, to write when you were sitting here! And there was a lot to write when you were sitting here! And when you were sitting there, you wouldn't listen to me! And today you realize that you've done stupid things, unfortunately you can't fix them anymore, because we have what we have. But thanks, including because you didn't listen to the lawyers. That's why I want you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to draw conclusions about what you didn't do. And the Frost bill needs to be adopted today, because that's what the Frost does, although this bill has a lot of flaws. I don't want to talk about it as a lawyer. And my committee buddy, Mikola Catherinechuk, passed the law by faction. They can be connected, they can be combined, they can be combined. Let's connect them, accept them, and say to the Constitutional Court, "We settled this." And in principle, we could have done that, Alexandre Alexandrovich, honorably, we could have done that in the Law on the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which we will never give birth to. It's a separate chapter and you don't have to make extra, extra laws. All of this had to be settled as the personification of this bill. And you and I, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we must overcome the veto now. Let's find courage in ourselves, and then, when we're full of people, the Bill of Amendments to the Constitution on the powers of the Court of Auditors, so that we don't steal state funds, so that there's not 80 percent of the economy in the shadows. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u190	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Who else insists on it? Please. Then Bespaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u191	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Today's regime thinks that legal relations are a relationship under the roof of a law that can be applied if needed, how it will be done, and even better to act outside the law, forgetting even the constitution from which we know that elections are an important element of democracy. But unfortunately, we felt repeatedly that the current elections had turned the Ukrainian regime into a parody of democracy, of abuse of man. campaigning and over citizens in general. There is no way to hide a cancer tumor on the body of a Ukrainian democracy that is running into a state that requires immediate surgery even without anesthesia for the authorities. And this must be done immediately without waiting for a new pre-election fever. Therefore, the draft law on the procedure for reviewing draft laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Aleksandrovitch Moroz, meets the requirements of the Constitution and is timely and necessary for adoption. A particularly valuable new norm in the project is the absence of which the Constitutional Court referred at its time. That the laws amending the Constitution cannot be subject to the Presidential veto, adopted by two-thirds of the votes of the deputies of the Constitutional Assembly of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Such a rule specifies Chapter 13 to allow Parliament to perform one of the basic functions. I suggest you accept this project with no change.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u192	Thank you. 2 for us. Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine. Please, you're in favour or you're in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u193	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for your word. Boris Bespaliy, the faction of Victor Yushchenk's block, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! I think that's the law. Well, at the right time to prove it, I think it's funny after the factions that we had a few months ago about whether or not to refer the law to the Constitutional Court or not. Obviously, guidance is needed and must be regulated by law. That's why. Law itself, for there are certain responsibilities and certain steps not only for the deputies of the Supreme Council but for the active and superior officials of the state. I agree with my colleague Karmazin that this should be part of the law of the Rules, but when we adopt the law of the Rules, only the Lord knows. So I think we need it at the right time, and it's very good that we did bring it up. Now. Which one of the bills? Well, it was finally possible to adopt any of these bills. The committee was determined to support Alexander Frost’s bill. Our faction "Our Ukraine" will support him. Then perhaps we will offer some other stories. Now, however, in my opinion, there is a rather questionable position that a bill amending the Constitution cannot apply to the veto of the President. The constitutional bill even at the project stage, even at first reading, cannot contain rejected violations of the Constitution. This is in this case a little bit of maybe harmless matter, but in principle it's a very dangerous precedent, because other bills may contain more significant deviations from the Constitution. And today, good or bad, the Constitution makes no exceptions to the veto. Here he is relying on the President's responsibility for how he feels about the activities of his deputies. I don't think it makes any sense at all when the President applies the veto to any law that takes more than 300 votes. For example, the Law on the Delimitation of Lands of State Municipal Property -- 407 votes and vetoes. In this case, perhaps it would be more logical to sign this bill and then propose changes. So I think this rule needs to be removed. Besides, I'd like to say one more thing. Who, then, would judge Beethoven’s symphony if he heard it in the performance of only one self - acting guitarist? And I think it would be premature for us to judge those or other constitutional powers of the President, seeing them only in one execution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, who are still insisting on the talk? Please, Alexander Frost, the closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased with the active and specific heated debate on this subject. And I think that as drafters of the bill, we're going to work out, we're going to take all the notes into account. It's about the veto. I understand that this is not the norm of this law as much as the Constitution. And in the draft amendments to the Constitution, we've brought the Supreme Council up to date, more faithfully in the analysis at the Constitutional Court, and I think we're counting there. And it may be necessary to remove this article from this law, the last two paragraphs. Although it is in itself that the proposal is fully understood. And regarding Yuri Anatolyovich's observation that I wasn't listening when he spoke when I was the head of the Supreme Council. I admit I didn't listen to everything. But if you would have listened to me when I spoke, it would have been perfect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u196	Alexander Alexanderovich, I have come to understand that we should now listen to the presiding officer so that we can listen now. Please, Karmazin, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u197	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I mean, what we had to do was listen to Carmazin when he said in 1995, he begged you: let's choose the Constitutional Court. You may remember this when I begged you not to sign the Constitutional Treaty because it is a constitutional betrayal. 240 deputies and one president signed it. So unless I had to listen to you at the time, or maybe I did what I told all of the people of Ukraine, that it was a dictatorship coming along, that it would be a difficult consequence. I guess that's what I said. And it was probably the right thing to say back then.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u198	Thank you. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u199	No, well, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have to say that I always listen carefully to the Head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-01-m0.u200	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft law, draft laws on the specificities of the draft laws, amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine and the procedure for referring to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the question of the compatibility of the bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine to the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine have been completed. Decisions will be made taking into account the discussion on the day of the vote. Dear colleagues, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. At 3 p.m. Parliamentary hearings will begin on "The National Budget of Ukraine: Real Sources of Filling and Expansion, of State Financial Resources". Since 16 hours of work on committees and factions. Tomorrow's day of adoption by the Supreme Council of Decisions. Thank you for your work. Good-bye.
