ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u1	People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:36]] Registered -417 There are 417 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We continue our consideration of issues according to Tuesday’s schedule of meetings. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation is being announced for consideration with a view to ensuring that environmental requirements are taken into account in the privatization process. Then we follow the simplified procedure, we consider the issue. Reporter: Head of the Cechetov State Property Fund Mikhailo Vasilovich Is there a Mikhail Vasilovich? Please, Mikhail Vasilovich. Mikhail Vasilovich, very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The proposed draft law is designed to regulate environmental issues in the privatization process, taking into account international experience in this area. It is proposed to amend Ukraine's laws on privatization of state property, privatization of small state enterprises, auditing and environmental protection. [[low privatization]] This determines the order of responsibility for environmental damage caused by an enterprise to privatize it. An environmental audit is being carried out in the process of preparing objects for privatization, taking into account the results of the audit when setting the initial price of the object, and other conditions of privatization. The concept of "environmental auditing" is also introduced into the system of environmental legislation, and the task of environmental auditing, form and legal principles is defined. It is proposed that the representatives of specially authorized bodies on environmental issues and the use of natural resources be involved in the privatization process, taking their comments into account when preparing and making appropriate decisions. The adoption of the law will enhance Ukraine’s attractiveness to domestic and external investors, introduce and transparent procedures, and solve the complex environmental problems that arise in the privatization process. Please accept this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u3	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich, sit down. Please, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Hennady Borisovich Rudenko. Is it? Where's Rudenko, who's from? Then let's go to the discussion, the committee's decision on this issue is, which is to take the basis of this project. Please, Yuri Salamatin. I'm on it. Is it? Yuri Carmazin, please. Ladies and gentlemen, may we postpone? Will we then consider the bill? A draft law amending Ukraine’s law on the listing of property rights that are not subject to privatization is being announced for consideration. These are bills 2405, 2405-1, 2405-2, 2405-4, 2405-5, 2405-8. The rapporteurs are National Deputys of Skomarovsky, Seminouk, Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economics and European Integration of Umanski, National Deputy of Kosovo and National Deputy Karmazin. The bill's coming up, National MP Skomarowski, please. Let's do it this way, because there's a lot of bills, in three minutes each, to justify proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u4	Dear colleagues! The bill was initiated by the State Property Fund, the Regional Department, the Vinick Observatories and the voters. What's the point? It is suggested that two objects be removed from the list of objects that are not privatized: this is a design and engineering institute, as well as a Pistachio Promatomatics SEC, I'm sorry. There were objections only to the Ministry of Agroprompolitics. What were they all about? They claimed, at the request of the head of the administration, that this object -- the design and design institute -- was an object. which develops standards for the food industry, such as those adapted to Europeans. So at the Land Relations Committee meeting, it was decided to send a commission there. A three - man commission came to the institute, and what did we see? Which is really the department that's doing standardization for the Ministry of Agroprompolitics. But there's only one person working in this department. And last year, there was only one order for 11,000. The money for the development of a state-of-the-art food concentrati, which, as the head of this department has said, has never paid off. We were at a company called the Bureau of Standardization in the Winnitz region, and we saw what a material and technical base there is. There are computers, there is a connection, there is a whole base of all businesses. In this case, where one person actually works, there is no computer, nothing, they simply copy what standards there are, and they can't even show what they've done in the last couple of years. So this bill, I think, I'm asking you to support, because it's not my initiative, it's the first thing that the workers who work there want to do, it's also between these two objects that there's this interdisciplinary hostility, because the Ministry has decided to bring them together, and they're having court disputes, because the engineering institute has all the premises, and 50 years of the UK has been working there, and now they're making them pay for it. To bring this to a point where it doesn't go to waste, it doesn't go to waste, and even the architecture of the city asked me to do, to ask the Supreme Council to support this bill, because it's going to go to the central square, and it's being torn down, and even the entrance of this building is being poured out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u5	Yes, thank you, too, have a seat, please. We're following a reduced procedure. Valentina Petrovna Seminouk. We don't have to put it off yet. I then invite you to the rostrum of the Ummanski Igor Ivanovich, Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economic Affairs for Euro-Integration, please. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u6	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, colleagues, present! For your consideration, the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights Objects That Are Not Privatized, Designed and Made by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is proposed. The project was discussed in most of the Supreme Council committees, the people's deputies are known, and I'm not going to stop very closely on the substance of this normative document, I'm just going to say a few words. First, the project of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine proposes to support the National Deputies with a proposal to organize the listed list of enterprises in connection with liquidation, or the reorganization of enterprises. The inclusion in the list of objects that are of general significance under current legislation is not in this list to date. Excluding it from a list that has lost the stated state-of-the-art significance due to a number of subjective and objective reasons. Clarification of the list in connection with changes in the names and powers of the relevant authorities. In general, about 150 objects are proposed to be included in the listed list and some 295 items of state property excluded from it. A number of proposals from national deputies, from committees, from factions were made in the course of the discussion. Most of these suggestions are fully accepted and we believe that when considering this document on second reading, they can be supported and approved by you, honourable national deputies. In view of the above, I would like to support you in the first reading of the bill and in the second reading of it to deal with all the proposals that have come to the Ministry of Economics, to the Cabinet of Ministers and in accordance with Mr. Gurenko's profile committee. I hope that the compromise on this document can and will be found, so I repeat my request that the document be supported. Thank you for your attention, and if you'll allow me to report the second bill immediately to the Cabinet of Ministers as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u7	What a number.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u8	2405-8.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u9	Come on, there's no denying it, right now two government officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u10	The proposed draft law also proposes to amend this law on the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization, between this and this project, which was introduced much later. Only one object is proposed for change. This is a state-owned stockholding company called Topaz, which was created in accordance with the President's decrees and corresponding government decisions, which includes the main base of this holding company, is an open stock company called Topaz, which is not privatized under the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property. That's why we're proposing to include Topaz VAT and Topaz holding company in the listed list to record the legal situation so that neither the holding company nor the stockholding company can be privatized according to privatisation legislation. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u11	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. I invite Mikhail Vasilovich Kosiv. Please, Mikhailo Vasilovich Kossov on Bill 2405-4.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u12	My dear colleagues, the draft law that I am proposing to you is that, to my profound conviction, objects such as the Lviv Institute of Lviv Pronaftochim, which is an institution that works in the field of oil processing and oil chemistry from the design of capital construction, reconstruction and technical refurbishment of oil and oil refineries, cannot be privatized at all. Well, imagine you've evaluated this institution for 5 million dollars, that's what you've estimated the premises, the equipment. And intelligence, and the scientific ability of the workers that are the foundation of this institution, are things that are invaluable. But of course they don't fit in at the cost of this privatization. Now imagine, this is the only institute in Ukraine, the only one. We'll give it to him, he'll own one of the private oil owners, some oil refinery and all. And the state gets rid of its intellectual, strategic field. It is a crime to privatize such objects. This is the first time. That's different. I want to tell you that this institution works perfectly well. It's not funded by the state budget. He has orders for all SND states. There goes a normal salary for employees, not entirely normal, because they're worth much more, no doubt, but there's a systematic payout going on. They pay taxes to the state budget. The district administration, the city council, is opposed to privatization by the labour force. And, I think, in that sense, asking questions about privatization is totally useless. I'd like you to support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u13	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, please, Bill 2405-5.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u14	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! You are invited to add changes to the list of property rights that are not to be privatized, including the administration of the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, the Odessa State Agricultural Code. It has existed since 1890, the oldest not only in Ukraine but also in the SND. And this is what the voters asked me about because some forces wanted to take 30 acres [30 ha] of land in the city and turn it into a market. Part of it's already been done on the side of Medieval Street -- there's already a market at the expense of an agricultural enterprise. Part of it worked on the other side -- they already built the auto-fuelling station. But there is still a business where there are about 100 people who have their own fields that work profitablely. There are systematic tests of pure - blooded, pure - blooded, and horse - riding horses of Ukraine’s leading horse factories. Horses are in good condition, fed, and selected. I am grateful to the Ministry of Agriculture, which has affected the oligarchic circles, including some who have helped in this room, refused to do so and said that this is strategically important for the development of the horsery and that it is not advisable to change the form of ownership of the enterprise. I also appreciate the support committee and I would like to ask you to accept these changes because these islands, which still exist in cities, are not privatized. It's definitely a hairpiece for the privatizers, but you have to think about something and forever. The same is true today in the territory of the National Film Studio of the name Lengthenka as the building is built. A film studio to make films, and now houses are being built. So I ask you to support this bill by combining it with others, of course, because it does not have a subject of its own making, just an addition to these laws, which go under the heading 2405, under the heading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u15	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of the national economy, property and investment of Vladimir Josephovich Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u16	I understand that we are currently discussing bills 2405, 2405-2, 2405-4, 2405-5, 2405-8. The Committee on Economic Policy and Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment reviewed the proposed draft laws amending the Ukrainian Act on List of State Property Objects, Not Privatized by the People's Deputies of Ukraine, Vladimir Skomorowski, Valentina Semenyuk, but because this law has not been considered, we cannot discuss it or vote for it, we cannot, Mikhail Kosivi, Yuri Karmazin, and the relevant two Cabinet of Ministers bills. It is proposed to include in the list of public property rights that are not to be privatized, facilities which are of general importance and which are excluded from the list of sites that have lost such importance, disposed of or reorganized. The Committee supported the bills introduced by the Ukrainian People's Deputies, registration numbers 2405, 2405-4, 2405-5 and recommends that the Supreme Council adopt them as a whole. With regard to the Cabinet of Ministers' Bills, these are 2405-2, 2405-8 large bills, which have, of course, sparked a heated debate at the meeting of the Committee and made a wide variety of comments on them, substantial comments. In particular, it is not supported by the Cabinet of Ministers' proposal to exclude from the list of property rights not to be privatized and from the list of property rights not to be privatized, but may be as privatized enterprises belonging to property complexes, railway undertakings with their infrastructure in Ukraine. This issue was discussed during the previous meeting on rail transport. People's deputies, members of the Committee, also objected to the exclusion from the list of State-owned property objects not to be privatized by the State-owned enterprise The Shipbuilding Plant of the name of the 61st Communaire. However, members of the Committee propose not to include in the list of State-owned enterprises, the Carpathian production association, the State-owned air traffic service company Ukraine, “Ukraine”. The reasons given by the Ministry of Economy for the inclusion of the Carpata association indicate that the enterprise is the main organization in Ukraine to support the weaponry capacity of the Ukrainian Armed Forces on an automated system for the management of the air defence complex. However, according to Ivanofrankov's Administration, the work carried out by the Ministry of Defence is constantly decreasing. In 2002, the Ministry owed more than 1.8 million people to the company. No bracelets came from him at all. The result of the Carpathians crisis is possible by attracting investments to reorient the production of popular consumption products, the broadcasting device, acoustic systems and so on. With regard to the State air traffic service facility of Ukraine, Aerolouch was excluded from the list of facilities of State property rights not subject to privatization by the Ukrainian Act of 12 July 2001. At this stage, members of the Committee believe that sharing air traffic services is actually the only way to develop it, which will allow Ukraine's air navigation system to be withdrawn to the world level. The re-entry of this enterprise into the list will not contribute to its stable work. Other comments and suggestions were made by the members of the Committee. Besides. The Committee received comments and suggestions on the Cabinet of Ministers bill and other Ukrainian people's deputies - Alexandrovska, Kroutsa, Gubski, Polischuk, as well as the special monitoring commission on privatization and the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the Cabinet Ministers should be sent to the draft Act amending the Act on List of Objects of State Property Rights Unprivatized, Nos. 2405-2 and 2405-8 for re-reading. It is proposed that our committees, together with Kabmin, should finalize them in the light of the comments and suggestions of the people's deputies and submit them for re-reading as one bill. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion on these bills, believes that, as a result of its first reading, they can be adopted on the basis of comments and proposals made. Please support the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u17	Thank you, Vladimir Josephovich, please sit down. Honorable National MPs. Ah, Valentina Petrovna, your bill, please, 2405-1. Very short, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u18	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, to the district administration of the Zakartat region, named Head of the Supreme Council, and to the special control commission, to include in the list of objects that are not subject to the privatization of the agro-industry company "Boboviste" and the agro-industry company "Lenica" which specializes in the production and manufacture of fruit-and-food wines. This object is located in the Zakartat region. The large, extensive work being done on this enterprise and the object that is strategic for the Zacarpathian region, they grow on an area of 1289,000 hectares of land, they ask us to have this business, which is built in 1537, which has a unique basement, a unique production, and they ask us to include this object that is not privatized." The Ministry of Agriculture’s conclusion to the Special Monitoring Commission is positive, and the request is made to include an item in the list of objects that are not subject to privatization. It's a call and a district council. So I ask the bill to support and include in the list of objects that are not subject to privatization, which corresponds to article 5 of the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of State Property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u19	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna. Ladies and gentlemen, shall we discuss this? Yeah, well, come on, two for, two for. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. On the board, list the names of the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u20	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The changes should certainly be adopted, but when considering the draft law on the listing of property rights that are not subject to privatization, I would like to say that there is a critical situation in the World War II caseload of solid alloys and heavy metals. As a temporary enterprise, it was created by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in 1998. The main goal of creating this enterprise is to provide the needs of the State with the production of the enterprise and to generate income from the production and business activities. Having a domestic manufacturer of solid alloys and falcon metals, a professional casino enterprise, scientific developments in the field of the creation of new technologies and materials, the state has led politics to its complete destruction, everything is done to make the enterprise bankrupt, and the signs of bankruptcy are already on the surface. For example, the loan is 5 million dollars, the debt is 758,000 dollars, the debt is constantly rising, the debt to the combined budget is 423,000 dollars, the debt to the pension fund is almost a million dollars, the debt to the electricity and the gas just paralysed the enterprise. The damage to the company, which now accounts for almost 7 million dollars, is rapidly rising. Although the purpose of the business was to make a profit. But unfortunately, neither government programs nor government procurement have received combinations since the founding date, although under the Ukrainian Business Statute and Act, the combination has the right to determine the strategy and basic direction of its development according to the programs and orders. But a business manager is bound and limited only by operational management and is virtually unable to do business freely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u21	Your position “for”? Thank you. Nosenko, please, the Communist faction. Is there a Nosenko? No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin, please. It's a good turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u22	Dear National Deputies! Certainly a set of laws, here are all the different laws, I would like to support and ask you to support Bill 2405, introduced by National MP Skomarovski. He justified the exclusion from the list of Winnick's National Design Institute of Technology and the Special Design Bureau of Automatization of Management Systems and Production Process of the Food Industry. These institutions are not related to objects of general interest, but they cannot be privatized by the specifics they are engaged in and by the situation in the state today. I would particularly like to highlight these issues, since here 8 bills are now being discussed in this chapter, or in this box. The bill, which causes serious concern, is 2405, signed by Prime Minister Janukovic and here I also have serious questions because I am simply not sure that the government was guided by state interests when this large list of enterprises was given. Why not, because December 29, Janukovich submits this list, and after three months, he lists everything that is completely allowed to privatize. This is obviously done by other people, or by different people in the government, and to this bill is certainly a question. As with the bills, as with the bill with the 82405-8 badge, where it's about the defence enterprise, which is Topaz, which is strategically important to the defence of the country and specializes in the development of military technology. So there's 98.6 percent of the total production of military equipment. So I think that not only does this business not have to be privatized, but it can't be corporate. But the government says it can be corporate. Dear friends, we don't have a lot of companies that make serious defenses like this realize and make defense orders that the whole world is surprised to hear. So I think that this law should be passed and included in the list for those who are not privatized. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u23	Vladimir Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u24	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, we've been chewing this question for a long time now, but we don't have a clear and clear answer to the questions about what enterprises should be included in the list of those who are not privatized. We need to identify with the main question, what are the criteria: not including an enterprise in those privatizing or including them in the list of those who are not privatized. In this regard, we have a sumurah, a lobbying, a certain pressure, a struggle of interests around the issue, which is inevitable. I'd even put that in a broader context. We need to finally determine what our privatization policy should be, which we want to achieve, including with regard to objects, but unfortunately, there is no clear answer to these fundamental questions so far. What are some specific aspects of the bill? Appropriate suggestions are made that are worthy of support. I share the idea that we can adopt bills 2405-1, 2405-4, 2405-5. There are reasons for agreeing. Although I emphasize once again, since the criteria are not defined, it is difficult to evaluate these proposals clearly. At least what are the criteria? Strategic enterprises, vital to the national interests of Ukraine, to the livelihood of the population and so on. It's the darkness of a separate conversation, I won't be talking about it anymore. As far as Bills 2405-2, 2405-8 are bills proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, there are also many valid proposals, but there are proposals that raise objections, and they have caused these objections to the Committee on Economic Policy, which I am a member of. I share the view expressed today by the committee of deputies, Matthew, that in this regard the Cabinet of Ministers bills should be re-readed to further develop them and take into account the comments and suggestions made on the committee’s discussion. And finally, I share the view that it would be desirable to draft a single bill, not on specific local topics, not on small issues, but to prepare a list of those enterprises that are not privatized, and this only harmonized bill to consider and accept at the sessions of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u25	National MP Petrov, Communist faction. This is the last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u26	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! We discussed the matter before lunch today, which was called the State Privatization Programme, and most speakers said that it was an “anti-State programme” that really eliminates the Power as the owner of any object. I think that those who propose to remove the object from the list of non-privatizations today have decided to hurry. Until that program is adopted, we must destroy those objects that can be destroyed more quickly today. I am referring specifically to the Minagroprompolitics in the Winnick district of Vinnicki, the State Design and Technology Institute and the special development bureau, which are now in charge of the Ministry of Agropolitics and in the opinion of the Ministry of Agropolitics, these two enterprises operate, work effectively and the Ministry concludes that it “disputes against the removal of the State Vinnitsky PCTI and the SCTS” from the list of enterprises that are not privatized. What was the idea here for a colleague of Skomorowski who spoke? Apparently, when the owner changes, the holdmain Foundation has been trying to tell us for 11 years that they're looking for an effective owner. What effective owner does Deputy Skomorowski want to find for the PCTI? In the building where PCTI is located and where the SKTC is located, Skomorowski, its firm rents areas. Therefore, the liquidation of these enterprises and the liquidation of PCTIs will be 250 people without work, and the Ministry of Agropolitics will lose its 2 structural units that operate throughout Ukraine, while Vladimir, which is the founder of Skomorowski's colleague, can then freely rent or buy these premises. I therefore support the proposals that have been made here today that the bills proposed should be re-readed and dealt with in detail.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u27	Yes, Your Honor, the matter has been discussed. We're going to make a decision taking into account the discussion, but I think we need to get out of the position that our colleague Blackman has proposed. To produce an acceptable bill by working on methods, approaches, and criteria. The decision will be made in the light of the discussion. Dear colleagues, there were four men, enough. None of the factions, but we're not talking about factions. We go back to the draft law on amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure and integrate environmental requirements into the privatization process. We heard a report from Mikhail Vasilovich Chechtov, Head of the State Property Fund. Now, the committee's report is Ivan Alexanderovich Rabbit, the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. I'd like you to consider, my dear colleagues, that by the time we have a dozen drafts, we have to consider the hour of twenty.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u28	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! You have before you a draft Ukrainian law amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure and take into account environmental requirements in the privatization process, which has been submitted by the President of Ukraine and has been defined as urgent. As you can see, the name is general, and there's a partial solution to this problem. The existence of this bill is a matter of several reasons. First. The practice of privatization, whether land or enterprises, testifies to the complete disregard of environmental requirements, environmental constraints. On the one hand, it is quite common that an investor comes and hangs on his shoulders all the environmental problems that his predecessors had previously created. On the other hand, there is an investor who wants to avoid any obligation to meet and eliminate environmental problems. And that's why we need to settle this issue at the legislative level. The other one. Parliament is most likely to have a consensus on taking environmental requirements into account in privatization processes. Therefore, a decisive step must be taken to recognize environmental audits as a necessary part of the property privatization procedure. The Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property and Investment, Industrial Policy and Enterprises support the adoption of the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to consider this bill only after the adoption of the Ukrainian Environmental Audit Act. By its decision of May 15, 2003, the Supreme Council adopted the draft law on environmental auditing. In this regard, the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster at its meeting on May 20, 2003, decided to support the bill introduced by the President of Ukraine and to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. So the honourable people's deputies, as you can see, are only solving part of the problem because the language in these bills is about privatizing property, but it's a very difficult problem to privatize land. And it seems to me that the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, the Cabinet of Ministers and the relevant committee in the Supreme Council should speed up their drafting of bills that would make it mandatory to take environmental constraints into account when privatizing. I'll give you just one example in coastal areas. According to our legislation today, coastal zones are established by our legislation, such as the Water Code. It says that the great river, the coastal lanes, are 100 meters away, but we see how the coastal coastline is being built today, which way. There's some kind of forgetful plans, and that's where the forgetful plans solve this problem. Look at Odessa and see that this is literally all that is called the sea below. So, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to support this bill in the first reading, and then we will work on it and we will accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u29	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich, for the discussion. Yuri Solomatin, please. I'd like to ask your honourable deputies for a brief moment, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u30	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. The Committee on Environmental Policy. Dear colleagues. The committee's position is expressed and it seems that there are no questions about this bill, but when we discuss the faction, we have a question that providing these, taking into account environmental requirements, when we create separate special structures that will engage in environmental audit, reporting on this issue, is a kind of masked step to create a particular clock, for certain structures. Moreover, the State Property Fund must pay for this, which will issue a tender for the enterprise to privatize. So there's this proposal, so there's this idea that it should be assumed that it's this money for auditing and for reporting to the State Property Fund that the future owner of such an enterprise is going to be privatized. And to make it even better for the holding fund to compensate for this money to the National Environmental Fund, so that it really does have to do with protecting the environment. And it's under these conditions, if we make this clarification and addition to this law, so that the audit money goes, not from the state, but from whoever owns this property, they work for ecology and environmental protection. I thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u31	Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, "Our Ukraine" faction. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u32	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. The honourable national MPs, the bill proposed by the President, are what the state is waiting for, but the state is waiting for a more serious bill. And it's not just the bill, Leonid Danilovich, we're waiting from time to time. We're waiting for you to see for yourself to draw the attention of your governor, Mr. Greenewecki, for example, in the Odessa area, this is I'm supporting the speech by John the Rabbit, the democratic deputy who spoke today, and he's concerned with environmental problems in the process of privatizing the land, he's raised the very right question that I've been raising over the years since the privatization of the land and what happened in the Odessa area and especially in the city of Odessa. Dear people's deputies, what just happened in Odessa. It doesn't fit anywhere. We won't know the city in six months if it's still, God forbid, from what we've done without taking any measures to preserve natural resources, even though there's such a state government management of ecology and natural resources. At the same time, today on the coast of the sea are built in 100 meters, which is two miles away, you spoke, Mr. Hare! In a hundred metres from the sea, houses, forty houses, three floors with gas, including gas, are built, capital homes of 200,000. That's one. This is all after the privatizations, and why? The Plavsagin, who was to serve to protect himself from moving processes, today became a boy who became one of the founders — the son of the city’s head, Ruslan Bodelan. So this law, although it is both a framework law and is passed after the law on environmental auditing, is to be adopted. And the other question is, what is the enforcement of these laws, as far as possible? This is already dependent on executive authority. Therefore, honourable national MPs, our task is now to ensure and enforce laws and demand from the government, to require the Attorney General's Office to enforce laws. And these laws on environmental auditing that we adopted in the first reading should certainly be adopted as quickly as possible, and so should this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u33	Vladimir Cherniak, please. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, of course, need to talk about privatization, but what is it? On certain terms, we have some of the deputies who are in favour of privatization, there's a part against it, and there's a part that's in favour of privatization, but there's a condition. I am one of those deputies who raise the issue in this way: if we are talking about privatization, we need to put, under what conditions: privatization under investment commitments, and privatization under environmental commitments. The issue of privatization under environmental obligations is extremely pressing right now, taking into account the terrible environmental situation that we now have. In this context, I would call these three whales, first of all, and this should be emphasized, in my opinion, in the bill, first of all is environmental auditing, which is what the bill says. Second, these are environmental standards that need to be followed. And thirdly, these are environmental sanctions that should be used if standards are not met. Of course, there is a cost problem, as always, that is the problem of additional expenditure on environmental audits, but it is a small one, and it is an additional cost of meeting environmental obligations. Without this, however, we cannot allow enterprises to be privatized without the owner’s obligation to meet environmental obligations, to fulfill obligations. So in my opinion, the bill needs to be supported in the first reading, it's extremely relevant and important. But I would like to put this issue in a broader context and propose, when preparing the bill for second reading, that we not only ask about property but only about property, about businesses, but also about land. Limiting the issue of environmental obligations by property — not enough — needs to be extended to the issue of land. This is particularly true of the issue of protected lands. Lands are being privatized. And it is often so that new owners do not even enter into the protective obligations that have been set before on this earth. And we're practically giving up businesses and giving the land to these guys, and they're destroying ecology. Therefore, the bill needs to be extended before the security obligations are transferred to the ground. A specific example. For example, in the Concha-Sasleep Valley, there's a festivities that are practically being destroyed right now. And we're now quietly observing how this unique natural reserve, this unique natural phenomenon, is being destroyed. And I think we should call on the authorities to ensure that they don't destroy this reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u35	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u36	The school of Andrews, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Ukrainian National Assembly. First of all, of course, I would like to emphasize the importance of the concept of ecology in general. Ecology is what we live in. Ecology is the fastest thing to destroy. And environmental destruction has the deepest and most powerful impact on our future. And I finally fully share the idea that privatization is a process that goes on beyond our will. Sadly, it is happening. And unfortunately, we're doing everything we can to protect ourselves from privatization. Before that, there were speeches by national deputies saying that we could not privatize this object because it was unique. That is what you call it. You cannot destroy this object because it is unique. Well, it's privatization and destruction -- it's synonymous. If so, let us say so. So I fully agree with the idea that we need all the costs of environmental auditing for environmental research for who's privatising. Whoever wants to destroy, at least has to know that before he destroys and destroys an object, he has to conduct an audit of environmental, environmental expertise, we have already passed the law, indeed, this law is a framework, the law of the imperfect president, he has many inaccuracies and misunderstandings, but what to do? We should accept these amendments, which I have already mentioned. Because the privatizer, or as the people say, the receiver comes, he chooses the house, it's mine, and it doesn't matter that in this house: kindergarten, school, manger, scientific research institute or university, or Boychuk's Institute of Applied and Decorative Art. I'm here, too. A compact, nice room, one of them came in, and I don't want to use the expression that my predecessor used, but let's say one of the oligarchs looked at it and said, "Great, you have to privatize." And the privatization process started, and it was stopped only by the staff of institutions and students. Now, let's talk about hand-to-hand expertise or state-owned property. I don't understand how that was possible. The State Property Fund has its own narrow specialties, and let it handle them. That's why we're spending our money, because these are the costs that the privatisation has to put into the budget. A single asset, then, is one who wants to privatize, destroy, or own an object. The countries of convenience are minimal, for those who privatize are maximum. So let him put a small percentage in his best interests to conduct an environmental experiment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u37	Dear colleagues! A review of the draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure that environmental requirements are taken into account in the privatization process has been completed. Decisions will be made in accordance with the Rules, that is, on the day of the vote. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the privatization of state property is being announced for consideration. Reporter of the Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection of the Population from the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Grigory Vasilovich Reva. Please, Gregory Vasilovich, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill, which was put forward for your consideration, was designed to preserve the existing civil defence protection fund, to determine the assignment to maintain these buildings as state property in the event of bankruptcy or business liquidation, to keep the protection facilities in proper condition, in accordance with the requirements of state building rules and regulations. Considering that under certain economic conditions the replenishment of the trust fund does not take place, its preservation and maintenance take on a stately significance. Failure to take immediate action to address this problem can lead to the failure of the existing civil defence facility to protect the population if necessary or to stop its existence altogether. The implementation of the bill does not require additional budget spending and allows the maintenance and maintenance of the existing civil defence protection fund to be organized and properly maintained for use. The bill has been harmonized, has positive reactions, and is accepted without notice. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u39	Thank you, Gregory Vasilovich. Please, Vladimir Josephovich Matthew, deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investment. For the report, please contact the branch office of the branch office
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u40	The Committee on Economic Policy, Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment, at its meeting, considered a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the privatization of public property introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and invited the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt it as a basis. The bill amends the Cabinet of Ministers Decree on the List of Property Complexes of State Enterprises, Organizations, Their Structural Units of Main Production, Privatization or Lease that are not permitted. And the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State Property and deals with legal issues regarding the maintenance of the existing fund of civil defence protection facilities. The bill proposes that the civil defence protection facility be classified as facilities, privatization and leased and that the composition of the privatization commission of representatives of the territorial authorities be complemented by the central authorities on emergencies and protection of the population against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. According to members of the committee, the adoption of the bill would allow the maintenance of the existing civil defence protection facility fund, define the requirement for its maintenance as State property in the event of bankruptcy or liquidation of the enterprise on whose balance sheet they are located, and also maintain these facilities in proper condition, as appropriate, under the requirements of State building regulations and regulations and for use on appointment. The Committee on Economic Policy supports these changes in legislation, the civil defence of Ukraine is a government system of government, forces and means that is established in the organization to protect the population from the consequences of technological, environmental and, of course, military emergencies. The relevant draft regulation was prepared by the Committee and transferred to service.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u41	Thank you, Vladimir Josephovich. Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this? Carmazin and Cherniak signed up. Please, just give it a minute. It's kind of clear here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u42	Yuri Carmazin, Our Ukraine, Party of Protectors of Homeland, Solidarity. Honorable national MPs, of course, need to adopt this law immediately in two readings, at once. And thank you, thank you. Now I'm going to tell you about the poor people, don't worry. So, using it, you have to take it in two readings. I'm proposing because it's a bill for the preservation of a civil defense facility. And today, there's a huge, huge problem here, and no one thinks about civil defense, and they're probably thinking about disbanding the Ministry of Defense and creating the Ministry of Attack. True, I don't know who this army might be attacked with. I don't know who to attack. But for the Ministry of Defense, all the conditions are created for it to cease to exist. Taking advantage of the chance that there is now an emergency minister here, I draw his attention to the fact that there are 60 tons of sulfuric acid at Odessa in the military port since 1954, 12 tanks! We've been funded from the BBC -- 2.5 million dollars -- we haven't taken it out! They've refinanced $2 million. In 2002, they didn't leave! Dear friends, you know that's the way it is! Everywhere you look, there's a problem that can happen, which can, God forbid, become an emergency. I'd like to ask them to take action on this one as well. And I'm very sorry that only in matters of privatization are the Ministry of Emergency Situations involved, and in the privatization of absolutely everyone, and only civilian buildings, all of them need to be involved in this ministry. Because spending the money that will now go to rebuild what is going on in the Odessa landslide will be much more! And your structures there are already selling first floor rooms, ask questions -- right near the station! Instead of being interested in terrible problems, don't give it to me, God, I say again. Because the Ministry of Emergency Situations should be interested in everything. I'm for passing the law on two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u43	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u44	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! To perform their functions, civil defense must have money and property. Because if she doesn't have it, she can't perform her functions. In this case, it's property, it's about preserving civil defense defenses, not privatizing them, it's about not renting them. I mean, it's a defense fund for civilian defense. I am in favour of supporting the bill, accepting it in the first reading and perhaps even in the second. But at the same time, there are several questions. First. How are these buildings being used now, what are the substances that are on them? The point is that there is now danger from civil defense. How can we make sure that our civil defense is not a source of danger? This, by the way, is what Carmazin said about the substances that they keep improperly, the properties in which they are stored, the damage to the environment, the environment is being imposed, and in general the danger to humans. So, first of all, it makes it impossible for the population to be in danger of civil defense. Second, we need to develop a program for the development of this trust fund. They're in a difficult state, they're falling apart from the bigness, many of them. A development program is needed to keep them at an appropriate level. It takes money, it needs to be taken care of. So only if we think about a perspective on how to solve civil defense issues in terms of property, in terms of security, from a cost perspective, can we adopt this bill in the first reading and in the second reading. He's a palate, he doesn't solve all the problems, but he's right and necessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the privatization of state property has been completed. The decision will be made on the day of the vote. A draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the administrative responsibility of corporate officials for violating privatization requirements is being announced for consideration. The reporter is head of the State Property Fund, Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich. The essence of the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u46	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft law amending some Ukrainian laws has been developed to improve privatisation legislation, which will enhance the efficiency of privatization processes and increase the revenue from privatization to the State budget. The design of the project is based on the need to resolve the problems that arise in the privatization process. When preparing privatization facilities for sale, technical and financial documentation is needed on the site. Because of the fact that there are a number of cases where the privacy bookkeepers do not provide the relevant documentation, and its absence makes it impossible to prepare the objects for sale, the proposed changes to the law will have a significant impact on the business leaders who block the privatisation process. The refusal of business managers to provide technical documentation for the privatization process leads to failure to perform the tasks of privatization of the holding and reduces the cost of privatization to the state budget. On the other hand, the imperfection of legislation limits the powers of the Holding Fund to make decisions in the area of privatization. During recent years, there have been isolated cases where the buyer, before the full payment for the object of privatization, acts that result in a lack of material values, loss of property, and loss of value. In the case of failure to pay for the object of privatization in a valid law-based contract, the term of the sale-purchase contract breaks down, including, for example, the equipment that has been privatised, it is not possible to return to public property in accordance with the acceptance-transfer act to which the property has been transferred to the buyer. With a view to avoiding such situations, the State Property Fund, which pursues public policy in the area of privatization of state property, proposes, at the legislative level, to establish rules for the transfer of ownership to a privatization facility after full payment of the purchased object by amending the relevant articles of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of Small State Enterprises. The main purpose of the draft law on change is to improve the cooperation of privatization bodies with officials of enterprises that are subject to privatization and with the judiciary of enterprises on a balance sheet with state-owned property subject to privatisation. As well as improving the effectiveness of the sale of government property. I ask you to accept it on the first reading, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u47	Thank you, sit down, please. For the report, we have the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u48	The well-respected Supreme Council, the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of Peoples' Economy, Property and Investment, at its meeting, considered the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws by the Cabinet of Ministers, supported and invited the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt it as a basis. The bill is intended to establish the administrative responsibility of officials of State enterprises for violating the privatization authority's requirements for the timely provision of reliable information on sites to be privatized. Or the provision of such information is incomplete. In addition, the bill aims at clarifying the time of the transfer of ownership to a privatization facility from a seller to a buyer. In particular, according to the project, employees of enterprises whose privatization facilities are balanced bear administrative liability in the form of a fine for violating the requirements of privatization authorities for the timely provision of reliable information on privatization facilities that are not fully subject to sale or provision of information in the amount of 100 non-taxable minimum citizens'income. The same actions over the year following the administrative recovery of 100 to 250 non-taxable minimum income for citizens. These changes in the law in the Committee are considered appropriate, since in practice there are not isolated cases where the balance sheet of privatization facilities does not provide the relevant documentation and its absence makes it impossible to prepare the facilities for sale. The proposed amendments to the law provide tools for influencing business leaders who block the privatization process. The bill also amends article 29 of the Law on Privatization of State Property, as well as articles 22 and 23 of the Law on Privatization of Small State Enterprises, so-called small privatization. According to these changes, the right of ownership to a privatized facility has moved to the buyer since payment of the full cost of the acquired privatization facility. To date, this right has been transferred to the buyer since the notation of the contract of sale. The Committee supports such changes, since in recent years there have not been isolated cases where the buyer is engaged in actions that result in a lack of value, loss of property and loss of value at the time of full payment for the privatization facility. In such a case, the non-payment of the privatization facility under the established law is broken down by the contract of sale. However, equipment that has been privatized cannot be returned to public property in accordance with the act of acceptance of the transfer to which the property has been transferred to the buyer. In the Committee's view, the proposal is intended to protect public interests, preserve public property until the full completion of the privatization procedure and the proceeds of privatization into Ukraine's public budget. It should also be noted that the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, notes that, as a result of the first reading, the bill can be adopted as a basis. The Committee on Economic Policy, People's Management and Investment proposes a bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers to amend some laws of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u49	Thank you. Yes, dear fellows, what are we going to do now? Discuss. Vladimir Puzakov, please. All right, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, get ready, please. I just didn't see it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u50	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. Whatever changes we are proposing today, Ukrainian privatization is likely to enter the history of world capitalism. For example, in Kirovograd, in Soviet times, there were five giants of allied importance: a radio plant, a letter, a segment, a beautiful star, an iron cell. Today, as a result of privatization, none of them are fully operational. Some even disappeared from the face of the earth. In the factory of typewriters, products that were used for high demand by all the republics of the former Union even laid the foundations on which they stood. And on the famous "Beautiful Star" that was known all over the world, and which was famous for its agricultural production, there were 14,000 workers. Today, only about 2,000 workers work in a factory after what is called privatization. More substantively, I want to stop at the collapse of the heavy-industrial flagman, the.3 steel mill. In 1993, this giant was made into an open stock society, that is, one of the first steps of privatization. Ten subsidiaries were built on the property of the plant, which were hauled out by wagons and looted the plant. In 1998, it was declared bankrupt, and a liquidation commission was set up, by which the equipment of the sites was dismantled and also placed in scrap metal at underpriced prices. Thus, over 10,000 tons of equipment disappeared in an unknown direction. Under the order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with the participation of the CoR, an inventory of the property of the subsidiaries was carried out and a shortage of over 40 million bracelets was detected. The materials were sent to the Office of the Prosecutor, the Office of the Public Prosecutor, the BSS, the Regional Office of the Statehood Fund, as well as to the Cabinet of Ministers. But so far, to a great extent, the culprits are not named or punished. This again speaks of the idleness of the forces and their blessing: "You shall steal, and you shall have nothing for it." Obviously, these and other similar facts are only the first dull flowers. Privatization in Ukrainian. And what other berries will soon emerge from the anti-national authority of Ukraine we will see. So in this situation, I'm going to propose a state-level review of all enterprises that were privatized, that changed the form of ownership and gave proper assessment to Ukrainian nuvarians for their actions, because the level of theft in the state has reached cloudy heights. If we don't, so to speak, the “strawl” will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u51	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u52	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Mr. Volodymyr Puzakov, our new recruits have been allowed to steal. Let's steal the system. And by changing this law, we're not going to stop this system. Moreover, some of this law will even accelerate privatization. It'll even speed up privatization. What part will accelerate privatization and whether it is necessary or not, I would like to say in my speech. The changes proposed in the law on privatization of state property, such as the amendments to article 29, part 3, are proposed to be supplemented by the following paragraph: “The employees of enterprises on whose balance there are privatization facilities bear administrative responsibility in the form of a fine for violating the privatization authorities’ requirements for timely provision of reliable information on privatization objects that are subject to sale or disclosure in a non-complete manner”. That is, if those executives today are the factories that are working and giving an example. The Lugansk state-owned airline for the Lugasang people's economy is not allowed to prepare an object for sale. If VAT "Hark Tractor Engine Factory" doesn't provide technical and financial information to prepare for the privatization of more than 200 units of equipment, the question is, what are they doing? But they're just defending themselves. It's their way of protecting them. What are we going to do? Should we take out this method? Let's get rid of it. But let's figure out what happens next. Why, Why People Against? Why are they refusing to do so? If the requirements of the privatization undertaking and the privatization body are legal, that is one question. That's why we probably have to write here "not be responsible for violating the legal requirements of privatization authorities." This means that privatization takes place under the law, which is included in the list by law, which is not deleted and so on. If not, by law, there can be no responsibility. That's different. Speaking of the content of the law, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in accordance with article 128 of the Civil Code, the right to property under a contract arises from the moment of transfer of the matter, unless otherwise provided by law or contract. That is why paragraph 4 would legally be correct in such an editorial that ownership of the object of privatization goes to the buyer from the time it pays the full amount of the price of the object. Because the cost of the object and the price of the sale are very different. Now we see that the holding fund sells objects at a billion for a hundred million or two hundred, and nothing, it's different things. Legally, it would be right to say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u53	Thank you. Bogdan Kostinuk, please, faction of our Ukraine. Next Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u54	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this bill is to establish the administrative responsibility of officials. Indeed, there are times when business managers fail to provide appropriate documentation for the preparation of objects for sale. This, in general, inhibits the preparation of objects for privatization. In recent years, there have also been cases of buyers who, until the time of full payment for the object of privatization, have committed such acts that result in a lack of material values, loss of property, and a decrease in its value. For these reasons, the Cabinet of Ministers’ proposals deserve attention and support. However, the amendments to article 27 of the Law on Privatization of State Property provide that the right of ownership of a privatized object is to be transferred to the buyer from the point of full payment of the value of the purchased object. But this contradicts or is not in line with the new Civil Code of Ukraine, in particular, part three of article 334, according to which the right to property under a contract that is subject to a notary certificate arises from the purchaser from the moment of such a certificate or from the time of the acquisition of legal force by the court’s decision to declare an uncontested contract. Therefore, changes are also needed, apparently, in the Civil Code of Ukraine. And the final wording of this position, I think, should be that the right to property comes from the moment of payment of the full value and notation of the contract -- and beyond the text. With regard to the responsibility for violations of privatization legislation, article 290, article 29, I apologize, the project provides that officials of enterprises are responsible in the form of a fine ten times higher than officials of privatization authorities for the same violations. This is some kind of injustice to some extent. And I think that this kind of responsibility should be, but it should be, well, if it's not the same, at least one half. And this article needs to be discarded. If these adjustments can be made in preparation for the second reading, if a representative of a committee of profile or state property says so, I think that this project can still be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u55	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, I also support the proposal to adopt the bill in the first reading. It is relevant, right, right, the suggestions it makes, the novels are appropriate. What's his prime asset, what's his main benefit? He's going to speed up privatization. What is its basic flaw? He's going to speed up privatization. It is often the case that the positive is negative if this privatization is not done properly. But this bill provides for certain mechanisms that guide privatization towards effective privatization and so on. which has a positive effect. I agree with Deputy Karmazin that it is necessary to write these mechanisms more legally correctly, and I agree with Deputy Kostinyuk on the need for a more precise mechanism of responsibility. And I'm going to add an important point to that. It is necessary to link the moment of transfer of ownership to the time when the transfer is made. If money is just paid, that's not enough, you need an act of transfer, which is an act of ownership here, but how can this be legally written only on the basis of an act of transfer. That's not what this is about. I think that in the process of preparing for second reading, you have to write this proposal down, maybe I'll pass it on, maybe Karmazin will give it to her or we'll do it together. I think that's the end of the matter. In general, the bill can and should be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws has been completed, this is number 2441. [[on the administrative responsibility of officials of enterprises in breach of privatization requirements]] Decisions will be made according to established order. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the Securities Market in Ukraine is published for consideration. This is number 2533. [[on the regulation of the activities of non-bank institutions and corporate governance]] The next is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the Securities Market in Ukraine, number 2661. Then perhaps if you do not deny that the reporter will report immediately after two drafts. Is there no objection? Please, the head of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Market, Oleg Mikolaiovich, is invited to the report. I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u58	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. For your consideration, it is proposed to draft the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Regulation of the Securities Market, which is designed to implement paragraph 19 of the measures to implement the main directions for the development of the stock market by 2005. The bill under consideration provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the market in securities in Ukraine with a view to bringing to grips with the requirements of the Ukrainian laws on joint investment institutions, combat and corporate investment funds, on financial services and public regulation of financial services markets, on the circulation of billing in Ukraine, as well as Presidential decrees on additional measures for the development of the Ukrainian stock market, on measures for the development of corporate governance in shareholders and on further measures to improve the activities of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets. The bill provides for the approval of a non-State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets as part of the methodological security for the implementation and development of corporate governance principles in Ukraine, an important provision of the bill is the amendment of the Ukrainian law on the national regulation of securities in Ukraine aimed at preventing and combating the legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means, as well as the addition of powers of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets in the framework of international cooperation to provide and obtain information from the relevant authorities of other States on the activities of individual professional participants in the securities market in the case and order established in the relevant international agreements of Ukraine. The adoption of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on State Regulation should, in our view, ensure that the mechanism for regulating the activities of professional market participants is improved in relation to the validity of the above - mentioned laws of Ukraine. Ensuring the implementation of corporate governance principles that, in turn, should contribute to improving the level of liquidity of the Ukrainian securities market and the creation of an effective system of protection of investors' rights and interests. At the same time, the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets generally agrees with the findings of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council and the Committee on Profitability and asks for the support of the bill in the first reading. With regard to Bill 2661 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the Securities Market, it was designed to carry out the mandate of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the President's decree on further measures to improve the activities of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets. The bill proposes to improve the system of the public commission of securities, by introducing the distribution of powers between the commission as a college body and a central apparatus and territorial authorities. In particular, it is proposed to amend articles 9 and 19 of the Ukrainian Law on the National Regulation of the Market in Securities, to add article 19, article 6, to the new edition by providing for the definition of the structure of the commission, the grounds for the suspension of the powers of the head and the members of the commission, the improvement of the procedure for the decision-making of the commission, the procedure for the representation of the interests of the commission before the courts. The bill stipulates that the commission cannot act as the founder, or participant, of legal persons who engage in professional activities in the securities market and are subject to its direct regulation, and manage a part of the state in the statutory fund of these legal persons. And the head of the State Commission and its members have no right to be part of their governing bodies. These changes are aimed at identifying an effective mechanism for the Commission to implement its mandates under the legislation, which should greatly contribute to the improvement of the national regulation of the securities market. In general, the Commission agrees with the findings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the Committees of Profiles. I'd like to say for information that they're being heard by the Committee on Economic Development and Financial Banking. And as a reference to the implementation of the bill, it does not require additional costs of the State budget. We offer to support and adopt the law in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u59	Thank you. Obviously, the committee should not be offered, but it should be asked for support. And secondly, after your next assignment, you don't bring us another bill. Please sit down, Cherniak Vladimir Kirilovich, under draft law 2533.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u60	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Economic Policy, National Administration, Property and Investment considered the proposed bill at its meeting and suggested that it be adopted in the first reading. There's the conclusion of the science-expert management, as always, that all the benefits and the negatives are fully analyzed. There are appropriate suggestions, but the conclusion here is also positive that this bill can be adopted on the basis of the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u61	Thank you, Volodymyr Kirilovich. Kaputin Viktor Volodymyrovich, the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, is project 26.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee considered Bill 2661 and supported it, and recommended that it be supported in the hall in the first reading. But what reasoning was expressed during the committee’s meeting. Well, first of all, this bill, it's generally correct, and it defines the structure of the commission, it defines the competence of the commission, the members of the commission, and so on and so forth. But there are some inadequacies here that are not known how they came to be here, and they must be removed from here. For example, it is determined that the State Commission is the central body of executive power subordinated to the President of Ukraine. Well, that doesn't correspond to the Constitution, this situation needs to be removed of course. In addition, it should be noted that the Committee on Economic Policy and the Chamber adopted in the first reading a bill under number 2038, which duplicates the position of this bill that we are currently discussing. So the committee supported him in the first reading, but decided to recommend the second reading to merge the two bills so that they did not duplicate each other and to pass a unified bill on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u63	Thank you, too. No, we'll talk about it now, it's something else. Let's move on to the discussion. Please, Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, followed by Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u64	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, two bills are under consideration. I would like to examine them in turn. The first bill to amend the Law on the National Regulation of the Market in Securities. I'd like to say that I support the idea of making changes, but I have to take into account the good proposals made by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. And I point out that the powers enshrined in Article 7 of the Law on the State Regulation of the Securities Market, which complements the mandate of the State Commission with a new point where it should determine the order of conduct and maintain the register of professional participants in the securities market and self-regulation organizations, are already set out in paragraph 14. So this has to be removed because it's going to be a tautology, you don't need it twice: both at 25 and at 14th. With regard to regulations that conflict with the law on licensing certain types of business, I would also ask that these things be removed because, so far, for the issuance of the licence, the amount of wages is set by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And there is no need for you to give it with your consent, that is, the Securities Commission. That is why there is a government, a government responsible for everything, let it be determined. And that's what we're doing today. I wouldn't want there to be any contradictions in these laws. Now for the second law of 2661. I'll tell you that the President of Ukraine's mandate is very slow, he issued a decree, where he wrote it, issued an entire decree to make proposals to the law in September and to make proposals later. Mr. Janukovic is working badly. The structure of the commission is defined here. I think if we accept, we make changes to the law, and we write, when a decision is considered to be taken and all, we cannot predict that there is still a position on the State Commission that is approved by the President. I suggest you delete it. Next. "Guarantees for the exercise of the powers of the State Commission." Article 19, "Invasion - and so forth - in the activities of the State Commission is prohibited, except in cases provided for by the Constitution, by laws." Well, obviously there's no interference anywhere in the Constitution, it's not foreseen, you understand that well, and you want to ban any influence? Please, you can leave this in any form to the head of the State Commission and its members for the purpose of obstruction. This may be left in view of our past when there is a shooting of members of the commission. I mean, this article 10. 19 also needs partial processing. It needs partial processing and article 6, where it's all too big, it's going to have to be divided and it's going to have to be made more law-like. Thank you. But in general it can be supported, it will not harm our economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u65	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, please. Do you refuse? Thank you. Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u66	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to ask you both, and myself as a deputy, as head of the commission. Seven years now, the Securities Commission is working. Has she ever been reported to the session room? No r-r-r-r-r! Again today, it is proposed to expand the mandate, but the main thing is to get out of Parliament's control and transfer the mandate directly to the President of Ukraine. Then there is the question of what role, and in particular what role, the control function of Parliament, will be when such changes are made. We never heard the Securities Commission in the plan. An official works, and like an institution or an institution, is meant by a Securities Committee and its functions have an impact on economic development. Unfortunately, there has never been a hearing. Today, 19 million shareholders, most of them only received statements from records, and no one received shares in exchange. So I think, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, so that we can record, first of all, the record of the report of the Securities Commission, to see how this institution has an impact on the economic development of the state. The 2533 project provides for the control of the emissary circulation. Today, there are 30 billion dollars in circulation in Ukraine. Who controls them, what is the area of circulation, which is the relationship with article 57 of the Budget Act, which provides for a 50 per cent repayment at the expense of the budget. How this direct institution has affected businesses through bills not to be subject to fictitious bankruptcy. Unfortunately, you and I have to do this because hearing the Securities Commission needs to answer the questions I'm asking right now. So, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, a specific proposal, for June, about the second half, the report of the Securities Commission, has already been concluded by the Court of Auditors. A report by the Securities Commission should be brought to Parliament, and yet it should be informed of its work not in the sense of how a certain official works beautifully. And how this institution affects the economy in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, the review of the draft law amending the Ukrainian law on government regulation of the securities market in Ukraine, this number 2661, has been completed. The draft law amending the Ukrainian law on government regulation of the securities market in Ukraine on regulation of the activities of non-bank institutions and corporate governance has also been finalized, number 2533. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. A draft law amending Ukraine’s securities and stock exchange law on mortgage securities is being announced for consideration. Reporter, Head of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Market, Oleg Mikolaiovich Brain. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u68	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Exchange, which is designed to carry out the mandate of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Presidential Decree on Measures for the Development of a Mortgage Market in Ukraine, is proposed. The purpose of the draft law amending the securities law and the Stock Exchange is to provide a legislative definition of the value of mortgage paper, which is one of the main financial instruments of mortgage lending and through which the accumulation and redistribution of financial resources will take place. The bill provides for amendments to article 1 of the Securities and Exchange Act as part of the introduction of the concept of "constitutional". The bill also provides for additions to article 3 of the Ukrainian Securities Act and the Stock Exchange to supplement the types of securities. However, it is important to note that the creation of an effective mortgage lending system that meets the requirements of public interest is possible only on the basis of clear national mortgage legislation. In order to prevent the abuse and discreditation of the mortgage, the mortgage mechanism should be introduced after the basic basic bills have been approved, first of all the draft Ukrainian Law on Mortgage, which should take into account the standardised approach to the issuance of the mortgage and the Commission's proposals on the specificity of its circulation. The State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets generally agrees with the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Professional Board and requests that the bill be supported in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u69	Thank you, Oleg Mikolaiovich. Please, Victor Volodymyrovich Kaputin. He has the floor for the report of the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill adds to article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Exchange Stocks and complements the types of securities with mortgages. [[about the types of securities]] The need for adoption of this bill is related to the discussion and adoption of the Supreme Council in the first and second reading of the mortgage law. Today, by the way, our committee, the Committee on Finance and Banking, has approved the mortgage bill recommended for third reading. I hope we'll see him this Thursday. And it's very important for this bill that we're discussing. In fact, the mortgage law introduces the concept of mortgage, which is the main financial instrument of mortgage lending. So we need to make the mortgage law work, in order to activate this law, we need to complement article 3 with the law that we are currently discussing. So I suggest that you accept it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u71	Thank you, Victor Volodymyrovich. Yeah, let's get down to business. Yuri Anatolyevich, are you ready? Carmazine. Yes, the next will be Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u72	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, "how does an institution whose report we hear today affect the development of the state?" - asked the National Deputy Semenyuk. That's a very good question. And I have not heard that, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you have been commissioned by this correct statement by the head of the commission on matters of privatization, namely, the Commission's knowledge of the many issues related to the commission's activities, so, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would ask you in my time to give a protocol of this kind of commission, all the more so that the law provides. Now they want to tighten up, as Ivan Stepanovich Plush said, unobtrusive to the ears, which is to order it to the President. Let's not do that and we'll hear the report anyway. I ask you to make such a protocol order, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u73	Well, if you say so, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u74	Well, I'm just asking you to support a woman, Valentina Seminouk. Please give me an assignment. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for your democracy. Thank you. So when we hear the report here, there are a lot of problems. I think this report is going to benefit the Securities Commission first, because you can express all your problems, but we can also express all our problems, we'll show you how the non-response is going, what's going on in the places in this direction. Now, about the changes that you're now proposing to the mortgage. You were absolutely right about the mortgage law, and you know that we were asking questions about it, and today the Supreme Council is working on it. But let's also write that these changes, where we wrote "the law takes effect from the day it was published, let's write another feature that goes into effect at the same time with the draft mortgage law and the draft law on the characteristics of the formation and activities of mortgage institutions in Ukraine. If we write that down, then there'll be no ripples, because unfortunately, we treat legislation like we're dealing with holes, not complex. It would be a component of complexity in a bad way, but still a component of complexity. So I'm paying attention to the committee that instead of becoming effective from the day of publication, we write, "it becomes effective from the day of publication at the same time as the Ukrainian Laws on Mortgage and the Features of the Establishment and Activities of Mortgage Institutions." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u75	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u76	Dear colleagues! Today we are discussing a series of very important relevant bills -- one of them related to the formation, regulation of the securities market in Ukraine, which is extremely important for the development of the economy, for economic growth, for investment, for financing and for lending. This is the most painful place in the entire financial system. The bill's novelty is to supplement a type of securities with mortgaged securities. So there's a new kind of securities -- mortgages. The mortgage is linked to the formation and redistribution of financial resources. I'd say that we're playing a game of prefrontality here, and that's very good, it's rare, we're usually doing things well, and here in the second reading, we've discussed the mortgage bill, we're preparing to accept it in the third reading, and now, in accordance with the Mortgage Act, we're offering a new kind of securities -- mortgages. The mortgage is the soul of the mortgage, but it has to be about not only the mortgage of property, the mortgage of land, but also the mortgage of securities. So we really need Thursday to adopt the rest of the Mortgage Act, which has been going through the Supreme Council for a very long time. It's a really important bill, and it's clear that haste is harmful here, but delay is already more harmful. If we're talking about this bill, maybe in preparing for second reading, we need to make better use of the mechanism of use of the mortgage, the release of the mortgage, and especially its circulation, are the main aspects of the problem. Finally, with regard to the report of the Securities Commission, I support this proposal. In fact, there are problems to talk about. I think it's time for a meeting of the Supreme Council to set aside time and allow the Commission of Securities to analyse the situation in the market of securities that are problems, how to decide what is required of the Supreme Council in order to solve them. And we will work together to help create an effective securities market in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, the review of the Law on Change in the Law on Securities and Stock Exchanges on Indemnity Securities has been completed. Decisions will be made according to the rules. A draft Law on the Financial Recovery of Coal Enterprises is being announced for consideration. Reporter - National Deputy of Ukraine Bysarov Leonid Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u78	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, your attention is given to the draft Law on the Financial Recovery of Coal Enterprises. The socio-economic crisis in coal enterprises has long been evident. I think there is no need to provide industry statistics and to prove the need for decisive action. It is up to the enterprises to calculate their own capital compositions due to their absence. The proposed Act aims to implement the final phase of the programme, the restructuring of the coal sector developed at the end of last year by Mintopenergo Ukraine, and provides for non-State investment in mining enterprises through their decommissioning. The most effective way to recover the debtor's financial situation remains to be followed by an additional issue of shares. Involvement of investments through the additional issuance of shares implies a sufficiently transparent implementation mechanism for all. In view of the specificity and detail of the direction in which disclosures are to be used, which is to be officially published in the print press, it is sufficient simply to monitor their use in a targeted manner. This path is more acceptable than the financial recovery of a mining company in the bankruptcy process, i.e. the sanctions that in themselves discourages and intimidates investors. In doing so, they do not receive funds in return for corporate rights and are therefore virtually unable to fully influence the efficient use of investment. At the same time, the existing legislation that regulates privatization, the increase in the statutory fund makes it extremely difficult and impossible for coal enterprises to attract non-State investment through additional shares. The proposed bill - the path of financial recovery and decommissioning of coal enterprises is not a classic privatization and therefore requires special regulation for mining enterprises. One of the key innovations in the bill is the determination of the amount of the statutory fund before the additional issue, based on the value of the net assets of the enterprise, i.e. assets minus liabilities. Changing the ownership of coal industries should not be an end in itself. Effective management was important and, above all, the need for financial recovery, technical re-supply, improved production security, and the technological renewal of the coal business should be taken into account. In addition to attracting additional shares on a competitive basis, the bill offers the following positive points: the issuance of privileged shares in the amount of wages and social payments; the obligation to use the funds derived from the removal of the additional issue only for technical resupply and capital construction; and the restructuring of the debt of coal enterprises, such as the exchange of shares in debt obligations. Locked up. The Chief Executive of the Supreme Council may be based on the comments made and proposals made by the people's deputies. The bill was also supported by the Profile Committee. I would like to vote in favour of the adoption of this law as a basis for first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u79	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the Committee of Turmanov Viktor Ivanovich. Turn on the microphone. Head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Viktor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u80	Dear colleagues! My colleague has reported on the draft law. On 16 May, the Committee considered it, and we accepted it as a basis and recommend that it be made available on first reading. But I would like to inform the deputies that a number of serious comments have been received by the deputies, and we have already received them, and we will take this into account on second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u81	Yes, thank you. Four national deputies were enrolled. On the board, please. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. Get ready, nigger. I would ask, if possible, to save time, to speak briefly, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u82	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! After reading the name of the law on the financial recovery of coal companies, I thought: hurrah! We finally found what we couldn't find. When I read the whole law, I didn't have that hurrah, and I realized that there was nothing new that we couldn't find. If you say "toes," I'll tell you what they found. There's only one way to make a financial recovery: it's to turn government coal enterprises into open stock companies with the next extra stock issue. That's what these shares are going to be like with the involvement of investments and the instruments to cover those liabilities. This is where I have the enthusiasm and the supporters of the Party of Motherland’s Supporters from the mining regions have become very dejected. Especially when they report that the debt on wages is at another rate of one and a half billion dollars today. The project says "billion" in the explanatory note. Well, maybe there was a billion at the time. Today, one and a half billion dollars! What is the solution? This debt includes one-off payments. Due to the loss of productivity, monthly regressive payments, and deductions to the payroll fund. So I can predict what's going on right now. The proposed option can make the situation worse when people are counted for social benefits with blank, completely blank papers. And what do we get? Yeah, well, we get that it's not going to be state companies anymore, it's going to be open stock companies. Who would benefit from that? Well, it's clear to me who's going to be comfortable with that. But is it going to be convenient for those people who want to get better, like, a business -- it's not going to be convenient for these people. At a time when the price of coal is too low, the price of coal unloaded is not higher. I was wondering if people would then refuse, well thank God, that I know there's no debt on the Red Army West now, but I know that there, if you offered to buy these shares, they won't go against you there, regardless of the fact that you're a national MP today, there's such a discipline. In general, such discipline is being established in the Donetsk region. But I'd like you not to confuse the word "discipline" with the word "dictature." So I don't think this bill will cure you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u83	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to continue your work for 15 minutes with your permission to complete your consideration of matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u84	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, we are discussing a vital issue. I understand that we already have the bill in our eyes, but I'm still asking you to focus on this bill, and I hope we'll make the right decision on Thursday. I share the opinion of my predecessor on this rostrum of Carmazin that this bill will not solve all the problems, that it is in many ways palliative, but I would not become so skeptical of it. I still think and I hope that this is a step in the right direction, of course it won't solve all the problems. And we're going to need to continue with a series of strategic lines for the financial recovery of the coal industry. But it's a step on this path. And that's why I tend to think that we do have a reason to support the bill in the first reading. Of course, there are both suggestions and observations, and this can be taken into account in the process of preparing for second reading. But I think it would be wrong, given that this bill does not solve all problems, not accept it. I think it's a really serious step towards turning government coal companies into open stock companies with the next issue of shares, how can financial resources be involved, of course, state support. It's the budget. But that's not enough. There's still another way around the world. This is looking for investment capital, looking for investment in the private market. And we can't avoid that either. And we have to take these steps. Not only in the relationship, but in general to form a private market of capital and to seek investment there, and to encourage businesses to search for them there in the private market. Although the coal industry around the world is supported by the state. There must be State support. But it is usually not enough. So I think this is a very important and important step, although I agree once again that he doesn't solve all the issues. Of course, the problem remains extremely difficult — the problem of debt. These debts are the heat on the feet of the coal industry, and this is the heat on the feet of our economy. And so if we're going to take this step, we have to think about how to solve the problem of debt both on wages and on regressive payments and everything else. And so I'd like to think about how we can untangle the peer of the receivable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u85	Thank you. Larissa Kirichenko, faction of Ukraine. Turn on the microphone, please. Excuse me, Ludmila Kirichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u86	Please pass the word to Kluev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u87	Andrew Klovev, "Regions of Ukraine" faction, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u88	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! This is a very important bill, a bill for the coal industry. On the question of debt and wages to coal miners, I can give you a competent answer that the debt owed to coal miners is now 1 billion dollars. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union for the financial year 2014-2020. Grieve. By the time the bill was drafted, it was the right figure, it was about a billion dollars in debt. What do you mean, why is this bill very important? As always, you and I will pay attention when the budget process begins, and the coal sector budget struggles always begin, for coal miners. And the more, the more we return, the more we always return, the more this budget allocation increases. And the question always arises: What else? If we're counting on it all the time. Support, that's the way to nowhere. Therefore, in this bill, it is proposed that equity societies should be established and that shares should be issued. This issue of shares, through this issue of shares, attracts investors' funds, attracts private capital to stop the burden, at least partially removes the burden from the State budget. I agree that this is not a panacea of everything that the coal industry is running. And I think that there is not one such bill or such that we will have to do in order to finally push this important industry out of the deadlock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u89	Stepan Ilkovich Cloud, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u90	The cloud, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko, the Party of Fatherland. Of course, to heal the strategic field that is coal and we have to do everything we can to make it better. But does this law give us such opportunities to do so? I can't agree with that, because, first of all, the coal sector in this world is not profitable or very profitable. We have, you know, it's mostly damaged. And I think that recovery would have to start by giving us an order to fight corruption, making effective use of government aid first of all, and making timely calculations on coal. An increase in the price of coke coal, where it is almost 2 or 3 times the price of coke, as well as a balance between hardware and coal. I think, and since such a sector is not profitable, on the contrary, the expectation that capital will be involved is certainly "graves in the sky." But the "son" is in the 6th article of this bill, where it is intended to release shares to repay the debt. And I think in the situation that we have today, we know the realists, they're really going to have to buy this stock for the unpaid salary of being afraid of getting rid of jobs. That is why I strongly oppose this bill, and I cannot agree with the distinguished Professor Cherniak, who should be accepted in the first reading. I think this bill needs to be rejected, because it's going to be another fraud of miners first and foremost, robbing their unpaid wages and other payments that they have earned.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, consideration of the draft Law on the Financial Recovery of Coal Enterprises has been completed. What the Ministry thinks about this. You don't? Please, just for a little while. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ We support this bill. We've made a number of suggestions for its development, well, it's in the process that we've been working with the committee since the first reading, so we support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m1.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Law, number 3412, has been completed. Decisions will be made in the proper order. Let's consult, we don't have much time left until we're done here. The Ministry of Internal Affairs is very much asking us to consider a draft law amending some of the local police legislation. How can you not deny it? What if the head of the committee thinks so? Ladies and gentlemen, the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you so much for your fruitful work. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. Questions will be considered according to Wednesday’s schedule.
