ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. I'd like you, your honor, to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:15]] Registered -419 There are 419 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, as well as the Deputy Prime Minister and members of the government, is taking part in our work. Today is the birthday of our colleague, National Deputy Yuri Petrovich Solomatin. Let us greet him, wish him health and success. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy of the People's Republic of Kulczynski Mikolia Georgiyovitch into the membership of the deputy faction "Our Ukraine". [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at the meeting of the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions, the heads of committees, the national deputies of Ukraine and the government headed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, we discussed the situation that took place in the agro-industrial complex and in the food market. The agreement has been reached that at 10 a.m. today we will not be discussing the issue of "Victane", I mean the announcement of parliamentary requests, messages, information and so forth, and we will hear the speech, the information of the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation and measures to stabilize the food market and the situation in the APC. After this information, we will move on to the draft legislation to make the decisions that are necessary to stabilize the situation and not make it worse. Is there no objection to such an act? Besides, I'm asking you to agree to listen to the information and heads of the delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine about participating in the summer session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Is there no objection? What's the procedure? Sergey Petrovich Headate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head! I'm just from the first question on the Prime Minister's information. I don't know who decided on the procedure. But what do you think, and in your opinion, the Prime Minister, in your opinion, should he be here today when he hears this question from the Attorney General of Ukraine? As far as I'm aware, Deputy Prime Minister Azarov, speaking on television, said that the government and the relevant government authorities would be the most determined to find out the situation that had arisen. And what you think is whether the poorest people in Ukraine have suffered, who have done this situation, and that no one should be held accountable, perhaps even criminal. Therefore, the role of the Attorney General in this matter is absolutely necessary, mandatory, and he would have to provide the same information that the Attorney General at that time found out in order to carry out his duties as Attorney General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u3	Thank you, Sergey Petrovich. We agreed yesterday that there would be information from the Prime Minister of Ukraine. If the Supreme Council decides that we need to hear the information of the Attorney General, then we will make the appropriate decision. If there is a need to invite the Attorney General, the Attorney General's Office, I ask that you be invited. Because the Attorney General himself is on a mission. Please, Turkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The question that we are considering today is too topical. And that's why our faction, and I think other factions support that food security needs to be discussed more widely. And our proposal is after the Prime Minister's speech to give representatives of each faction three minutes to discuss the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u5	Dear colleagues! I want to say again that yesterday, all the faction leaders, including the leader of the Julia Timoshenko faction, Julia Volodymyrovna, agreed with the suggestion to listen to the information within 15 minutes, then move on to making practical decisions. And yesterday we spent an hour and a half discussing the situation. As it was reported in the media, that's a different question. I invite you to the rostrum of Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. Please, Victor Fedorovich. I'm being informed that the broadcast is happening. I'm asking you to check on Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko again. Give me an assignment to check it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! For the first time in three years, Ukraine has faced so much stress in the food market. The government today has a detailed and comprehensive analysis of the reasons behind this situation. First, the agricultural market, especially the grain market, has been virtually unregulated in Ukraine over the past few years. According to statistics, we knew only the amount of gross grain collection, use balances, and consumption. No one was molding or tracking. Total uncontrolledness should have exploded at some point. It's different. Stress has also increased as a result of a real grain deficit that occurred in individual regions in March of this year. The government, the Supreme Council, the President of Ukraine, had to intervene. Third. From the beginning of the year, there was a broad and public debate about possible loss of crops from a very difficult winter. This forecast has deteriorated significantly since the drought in the spring and early summer. Of course, it is not beyond the attention of the people. Hence, from the second half of June, they began buying flour, grains, pasta, and sugar. In particular areas, the implementation of these products has increased six to sevenfold. Such a massive increase in demand quickly led to speculation. Individual businesses raised the price of grains to nearly 70 percent, flour to 50 percent, sugar to 30 percent. And in such areas as Dnipropetrovska and Zaporizka, full control of the price of bread was lost, which traveled 21 percent and 16 percent respectively. Once again, this price increase is primarily speculative. The government, along with the Supreme Council, with the leaders of the regions that are personally responsible for the state of affairs in the food market, is now in complete control of the situation. There are already restrictions on trade premiums at cost levels. In the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Kiev, similar activities are now taking place in all other regions. I would like to stress in particular that the effects of the bread boom would be much more severe if the government had not paid particular attention in the early days of its work to the formation of the grain market. There is now a complete package of government decisions that enables us to influence all these processes. Yes, according to the Ukrainian grain and grain market law, a mandatory declaration of the grain that is stored has been introduced in Ukraine. As a result, we have monthly information on the number and movement of grains in each region and subject. And we saw clearly in March the tension in seven separate regions. The government intervened immediately and for the first time intervened in grain and flour. Since April of this year, more than 240,000 tons of grains have been diverted to these areas. This work is being done actively right now. I want all of us to understand: flour and grain in the state reserve and in the regions is enough to provide the population with bread for the new crop. A higher species sells between 90 and 85 dollars per tonne, and the first species sells 860 dollars per tonne. This is lower than some market operators are now offering. In clear responsibility for the commission, the relevant government authorities check the targeted and targeted use of these resources and their impact on the formation of bread prices in all areas. Ladies and gentlemen, you are well aware that from the first days of your work, the government, along with the law enforcement agencies, has launched a decisive fight against agrarian abuse, as well as adjectives, land and property spoiling violations. During this period, more than 400 crimes were reported, 97 thefts, and 317 people were brought to justice. In recent days, control authorities have found significant evidence that food is being hidden in hopes of further price increases. Such facts are already given a proper assessment and criminal cases. This week, we will inform the Supreme Council and citizens of the results of this work. And on this subject, I'm not going to say anything anymore today. I am confident that the law enforcement authorities should provide such information as will be confirmed by the investigating authorities. I want to confirm that this year the government will definitely apply mortgages. The purchase of grain. There is already an agreement with commercial banks to allocate the first tranche of 200 million dollars for these transactions. Some 400 million dollars will be spent on the purchase of grains and Derereserves. The first tender will take place on July 14th of this year. In general, the State Reserve will purchase double standards at the request of the Cabinet of Ministers. The corresponding budget proposals for this year are ready for consideration in this room. An analysis of the grain balance shows that this year’s crop will not meet the need for food grain. So in March, the government directed the region to find ways to compensate for this deficit. Now the work is near completion. And today the Supreme Council will consider the draft Law on the Creating of Conditions for Unhindered Satisfaction in the Needs of Ukraine in Grain. The government proposes not to restrict the import of grain by any means, to remove import duties. The problem of clumps and prices is also being tackled actively because, given the situation, we have been able to identify farms on time. Today we have an area of 2.5 times the size of last year. To regulate the increased demand for sugar, the government allocates 20,000 tons of this product to the country. And in the near future, no less than 200,000 will be imported. In addition, yesterday I signed a decree on sugar-sparing cane sugar on the terms set out in the budget this year. The problem of sugar prices will be removed within the next two weeks. At the same time, the situation could have been avoided if domestic agriculture had developed steadily and gradually. Sadly, though, in recent years it has supported the State with the remaining principle. We will be determined and determined to break this practice. We will propose, together with the Supreme Council, to work on the basic mechanisms of State support for the agrarian sector. As a result, the 2003 agricultural budget has already increased by 576 million. As much as the agrarian sector has received in the last three years together. Most of these allocations, 270 million, are aimed at the cost of loans and their extension to the affected farms by October 1st next year. The state pays 16 percent for the use of these risky loans. The farmer still has to pay the symbolic interest. This saves more than 40 percent of the farms that would otherwise simply go bankrupt. And most importantly, we keep banks' trust in agriculture. We're allocating 32 million dollars to the cost of electricity that's used to grow. Another 20 million are targeting the formation of a national seed fund reserve. An animal subsidy is directed at 150 million dollars. For example, if a peasant sells a carnivorous bull weighing 400 kg, he will receive an additional 600 dollars from the State. By doing so, we prevent mass carnage, especially in the womb. I would also add that the government has supported the proposal of the Supreme Council for a favourable and favourable agricultural tax for farmers, as well as proposals for the suspension of payment of taxes by affected farms, cancellation of fines and pennies. The basic law on support for agricultural production and market development, which will be voted on in Parliament this week, provides for a detailed system of State support to the agro-industrial sector. It includes regulation of demand and supply of prices for agricultural products and food, subsidies for the production of plant and animal production. At the same time, the law provides for the loss of long-term loans, the creation of a guarantee fund and credit support for agriculture, public support for insurance and the development of market infrastructure. I would like to point out that a systematic solution to these problems requires greater cooperation and greater involvement of regional authorities. This job, Your Honor, has already begun in many important directions. And this is the crucial guarantee of positive changes in both the economy and the social sphere. I'm convinced that right now we're dealing with a very important issue for our nation, for every human being. I am confident that only joint action and, they say, God has given us this exam to go through together, concerted action will allow us to go through this disaster that has happened in our country together, and it is worthy of us to get out of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u7	Thank you, Victor Fedorovich. Have a seat, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen! One minute, calm down. Now let's define. Dear colleagues, I once again want to speak to your acquaintance, perhaps I did not make clear the arrangements that were reached yesterday at the Conciliation Council. I want one more time, my dear fellows, one more minute. It was agreed on the Conciliation Council with the participation of the leaders of all the MP factions and groups that we have identified a list of the bills that we need to adopt. But before they do, we agreed that the Prime Minister's information will be heard within 15 minutes about the situation and the measures the government is taking. Then we made a deal. One minute, let me tell you. Then we agreed that we would make all the necessary decisions today and tomorrow. On the following Wednesday, we will hear the government's information again, exactly what has been done, what changes have been made as a result of the decision taken by Parliament and the government. There was such an arrangement, there was. Now, one minute. If you insist. Now, one minute. I'll put it to a vote, my dear fellows! One minute, I'm forming a question, Sergey Petrovich. Out of procedure, please. Head of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u8	I asked for a word from the procedure. Dear Mr. Head! The Prime Minister confirmed what I asked you. He said it was speculation. He himself reported criminal cases that had been instituted. Why isn't there a prosecutor here? I insist again, if not now, he has to report it tomorrow morning. Now, about the faction leaders, what you're saying is that they made a deal. I want to ask one of the leaders. Where is Kravczuk, chief of the Medvedchuk faction? That you're lying to people about us moving to the parliamentary-presidential republic. Can the faction leaders agree that the deputies here are copycats and sit there listening only to information? Don't MPs and people know about speculation? Deputies need to be heard. Deputies need to be asked questions to the government. Deputies need to be asked from the prosecutor's office what she's done over the past two weeks not to imitate. Parliament sits in its pocket and listens to nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u10	So I insist that if you want a parliamentary president and you don't want to lie, you should now vote to ask the faction leaders to come forward with their proposals and make proposals to the draft ruling, and the Attorney General's Office has informed the people of Ukraine how he saves the disadvantaged who have been robbed by the bandits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u11	Thank you. Shufrich, the lineup.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I'm very happy to welcome my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down! You're all entitled to a replica. There was a faction mentioned, he was entitled to a replica. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u14	I am pleased to welcome a colleague of the Head, who finally appeared in Parliament for a year. I want to remind you that constitutional reform has nothing to do with the problem that is now. And I want to remind him of who appointed him as the minister of justice. We need to treat our ex-colleagues properly and the situation that is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u15	Dear National Deputies! In response to your insistence, one minute! Dear colleagues, you don't have to! I'm asking you to calm down. I'm voting on the proposal. Please. You've already exchanged lines. Sergey Petrovich, may I have your attention? All right. Well, let's vote now, and then your right to reply. Calm down! I'm voting on the proposal. Please listen carefully, I'm formulating it: who's to be able to ask the Prime Minister of Ukraine right now to answer them for, listen, 15 minutes? Then, I ask you to calm down, then for three minutes there will be speeches from every faction on this subject. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm asking you to determine by vote. [[10:27:09]] For 209 The factions, please. The factions. Chief Sergey Petrovich, the Replica. Out of the way. Sergey Petrovich, from the spot, it's a replica. Dear colleagues! I ask you to abide by the Rules and not shout. Please! Don't call it a nickname then.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u16	In view of the fact that my last name was mentioned by the Head of the Supreme Council, I simply want to tell you that if I broke the law or the Rules in connection with temporary absence during certain months, and I was, you know, that you gave me leave of absence for important reasons, what was set up for the constitutional deputy, the law on the status of the MP and the Rules. So I'm sorry, I don't know why you're claiming that. But you'll see that I'll be there every day, and you'll feel my absence in the last few months.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, please don't block! I want to say it again. My dear fellows, I beg of you! That's right. I'll put it to the vote again, just vote, don't block the rostrum. All of it! Go sit down, I'll put it to the vote again. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, regarding the replication that has been made here and about Deputy Sergio Petrovich the Head of State. He was officially on vacation, the reasons were valid, and I signed the corresponding document myself. In view of what I see, the process is about blocking the rostrum, blocking the work of the Supreme Council, putting the vote again, and your will, and then moving on to work. I'll take another vote. Ask the Prime Minister a question for 15 minutes, then speak from the faction to 3 minutes. The proposal I just made is being voted out. [[10:29:14]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Information from the head of the delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on participation in the summer session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is being announced in fact. Please, Boris Illihu. [[B in m in s a l in]] . I understand it's not Boris Illich's address, I'm sure of it. Please, Boris Illihu. Dear colleagues, let's demonstrate our tolerance for such an honorable man as Boris Illich Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, I don't think until we vote again, I'm not going to report you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u19	This is the third time I've put a motion to the vote, the last. And then let's respect democratic procedures. Proposal for a vote. 15 minutes to ask questions and answers to the Prime Minister and discuss the situation, with the participation of factions within 3 minutes of each faction. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:31:16]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Yes, please. I'm asking you to calm down! Prime Minister of Ukraine. Well, calm down! Dear colleagues, calm down, calm down! The Prime Minister of Ukraine is proposing that he is willing to answer our questions. Let's take 20 minutes. And then we're going to go over the bill. No, no, no, you don't have to put pressure on the hall! Please, calm down! Please sign up for a question to the Prime Minister. 20 minutes. Yes, on the board, please. Anatoly Frost, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u20	Anatoly Frost, Communist faction. Please pass the word to Alexander Mikolayovich Tkachenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u21	Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u22	Dear Victor Fedorovich, today your speech, I think, surprised both the deputies and surprised the citizens of Ukraine. It was completely 100 percent off topic. Not on the subject, the first thing you haven't discovered in Ukraine is 48 million people, and you haven't discovered, but what the grain balance is predicted for your own and how many grains should be imported. And the second question. We need to consider today not just the breadth balance, we need to think about the 2004 harvest. We don't just have food grain, we have seed material. And who will be responsible? To whom will we place a monument in this beautiful area before the Supreme Council, where people would go to this monument and spit upon it for the reforms that have been taking place for 12 years?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u23	Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, if you have heard, I have said from the beginning of my speech that the balance in Ukraine has not been maintained at all and has not been maintained at this time. They're gone, they don't exist, they're ruined, and no one's ever done them before. At the beginning of this year, I raised this question, and we are now starting to re-establish the system of balances and forecasting, the balance sheet of material resources. As far as the grain is concerned. We're predicting the situation in the grain market and doing the right work with the regions, at the level of the state, and so on. This issue was devoted to many regional meetings, with the participation of the Agrarian Committee of the Supreme Council. That's why we're on this subject, they say, we're working with the Supreme Council, and all of these numbers are. I didn't say them in my report, I apologize because I was limited in time. But we do own the business. The seed will be provided from this year’s harvest. All of this is calculated, and we're confident that the seed is going to be Ukrainian. And the leftover grains that are today are also counted. We have the opportunity to have our own seed. That's the first one. About the grain truck. We're going to have, you know better than I do, that the state today consumes about 5 million tons of food grain. It's counted. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Alexander Mikolayovich. I answer that question responsibly. So we're going to have about 3 million grains of food this year, maybe a little bit more. We'll count it when we pick it up. And I think somewhere in the 20s of July we'll know all about it. But we think that by the end of this year we have to bring about 2 million tons of grain, we have to prepare a system, because the system of Ukraine is not based on this amount of imports of grain into Ukraine, we are working on this issue right now. And we have taken appropriate steps to ensure that this system, state-owned, will work for two million grains by the end of this year. And then we're going to look at what is going to be the situation in the world's grain markets in order to really be able to adjust price policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u24	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u25	Please pass the word to John Boko. Vladimir Mihajlovich, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u26	Ivan Boki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u27	Dear Victor Fedorovich, I want to say that your report has been filled. But you didn't say the main thing: when prices come back on, let's say, at least by April. This is the answer that the people are waiting for, not the abstract assurances. The other one. Helping the villagers. You know, the money the government makes, they go to banks like loans they go to peasants. And it would be much more useful for the peasants to give this money and the peasants would have arranged it more effectively. And the third. I've already approached you and I'm talking to you personally. The situation in Crimea. As you know, the Council of Ministers of Crimea gave it a 30 percent increase in the price of bread. And I have to say that Krymkhlib, there's a supervisory board headed by the Tobacco family, so you yourself realize that a high-ranking government official, I'm not saying he's directly involved, but still he's morally involved in this situation. How do you appreciate that?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u28	In my presentation, I emphasized that the grain market, the flour market, the grains will be stabilized in the next two weeks. I'm sure of it. We took all measures to make this happen. That's the first one. Next. We've increased the soybeans this year under a bunch of Greek and other cultures, and this year we're going to have enough resources to intervene in this market, and to significantly improve the situation at prices. We too will do so. It's about the Krymchlib situation. I do not know who is the head of the Supervisory Board. But on this point, I'm sure that for all of us, it was a very hard lesson, very hard -- it's for the local authorities, it's for the government, it's for all of us, how we have to react in this situation. We faced the fact that we had no opportunity, a legal opportunity to influence price policy. Today the government cannot do its own thing; it will not be legal if we raise or lower the price. But we have to, and when there's an accusation against the government, I agree with that, and I, and the whole government, we don't feel good about what people say to our address. But we're going to do everything, I'm saying to get through this trouble, and we're going to do it every day, and we're going to inform both society and the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u29	Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u30	Vladimir Moisik, "our Ukraine", Kolomishtina. Please give the floor to your colleague, Eugene Red.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u31	Eugene Red, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u32	Dear Mr. Prime Minister! As a manager, it pains me to see healthy adults play the game. Do you remember how he worked with you as Governor, Derzrezer 2000 - 2001 when the same situation with the Donetsk region was tense as with others? There are simple medicines, very simple. The State has a tool like a reservation. The president of Ukraine recently spoke about this. Do open auctions, do all open transactions, with everyone's access, not through authorized firms. And the second. I don’t understand why once again a bankrupt Ukrainian bread is appointed as a public operator, when there is one instrument in the country that can buy grain in excess, and when there is a shortage of injections. In the market, there will be no legal solution. Just demand, a big supply on the market through such an instrument of the state will solve this problem completely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u33	I agree with you, Eugene Alfredovich. I agree with you that we should take action according to the situation. And we do. We've already done interventions, you know, on flour. The wheat is now being processed. And that's exactly what we're going to do. By the end of this month, flour will be released from the State Reserve at a price of not more than 980 dollars per tonne. And 86 bracelets is the first species. And the market will be full enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u34	Ivan Plush, the Group of Democratic Initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u35	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Victor Fedorovich, I think you have a good memory, and you will remember how last year the Minister of Agrarian Politics, Sergey Ribuk, publicly stated: "We deliberately decompress in the European and world markets to occupy our niche. Then for six months we were proud that we had taken up such a niche and that the country first entered the first ten grain exporters and then almost the first five. Don't you think it's as useful as today's Prime Minister to go to all of those, beginning with Sergey Rizuka and all the traders, who, three times cheaper world and European prices last year, bought grain into the producer, I don't know how, at least, I don't know, what they're doing to help the Cabinet of Ministers right now to compensate for what it takes to stabilize prices? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u36	Dear National Deputies! I have repeatedly stressed both from this rostrum and from other performances, which I do not personally understand, is not entirely correct to speak of my predecessors. So what I want to say in general is that let it be on the conscience of those who have made such a policy and a government management that has not anticipated buying 250 million dollars of wheat in the State Reserve and completely forgotten about the problem. She wouldn't be here at all this year. I won't say anything else.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u37	Stepan Gavrish, Deputy Group of Democratic Initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u38	Dear Victor Fedorovich, unlike my colleagues, I take your performance as a positive factor in stability, which is essential today as the situation on the agricultural market gets worse. I have two questions for you. The first question is that according to the data published in the press, more than a million tons of grain were exported and exported outside Ukraine this year. Does the government intend to hold a special meeting of the government, or is it at a separate government meeting to discuss the matter and make the appropriate decision to know exactly what circumstances resulted in the export of 72 dollars a tonne of grain, and today we are forced to purchase almost $310?). And the second question. Is there a specific program in the government for this time and the traditional and stagnant positions of the state-matter regime that would allow for the accumulation of enough grain for the fall of this year, so as not to cause food crises next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u39	Thank you, Stepan Bogdanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said from the outset, and in answer to the previous questions, I have said that we have drawn almost all the conclusions. All final conclusions will be made by an investigation that raised all these questions. It's a matter of legislation, it's a question that's arisen in this huge problem. With regard to regulating this issue and the grain market in this year and in 2004. I said we have intentions and we'll do it and we'll do it, but with your help. And I would like to ask you, honourable national deputies, that these laws, which we are working with you today, be considered and accepted, for they are urgent. Even today, we have worked out the issues of grain harvesting and are prepared to do so and to do so today. Therefore, by the end of this year, we will be carrying two million tons of grain and that will be enough. And then we'll watch with you. And I'm going to keep this situation informed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u40	Victor Terrence, Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u41	Please give the word to our party leader Volodymyrni Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u42	Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u43	Mr. Prime Minister, at the request of our factions yesterday, we gathered an urgent meeting at 2.30 p.m. to find out how we work together to deal with an extremely powerful crisis: the rise in prices of staple foods. We agreed that today you're giving us information, and we're going to have regulations and bills with a clear list of our joint actions that will allow for two or three weeks to get the prices back to those levels that existed before the crisis. Today, when you come to Parliament, there is no decision to say about joint action to overcome the crisis. Of the laws we've seen, there's only the Law on the lobbying of imported raw materials for the production of vodka products. This is a purely lobbyist law that stands in order today. I want to ask you: Where is our joint decision, where are the draft bills, and how are we going to get out of this crisis situation with you? Once again, prices have risen by 3 or 4 times. The situation is being preserved. We have to give recipes what to do. And then there's the second question. What should the people do with the conscience you referred to as officials? How can they gain a normal quality of life with this conscience?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u44	Thank you for asking. Dear National MPs, Bill 3602: "On the Order of Import into Ukraine of Food Grain in 2003." First Law, Law 3649, where the draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of imports of agricultural products concerning zero import duty on cereals and molasses, etc. The Supreme Council's decree on further measures to address the agricultural crisis, which was carried out by the Supreme Council Committee along with the government. All of these measures involve joint action, and I have spoken about this many times today. Perhaps we should address this issue by execution dates and show the mechanism for applying these bills and so forth. But the government, in preparing these bills and this decree, predicted that these mechanisms were sufficient to carry out this task and to resolve this issue. That's what I was talking about in my speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u45	Basil Gabrieluk is the last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u46	Gavriluk, People's Government MP, 147 constituency. Viktor Fedorovich, I regret that I cannot agree with many of your positions because there have been no relevant conclusions on the situation in 2000-2001. And those measures that have been taken by certain individuals are today, and they are proposing a way out of the situation. So what I'm saying is that we're constantly working on a post-factum, fighting the investigation, not the reasons. Do you not believe that there should be a strategy for agricultural development in Ukraine? First question. And the second. If there is no strategy in such a difficult situation today, there must be specific people who must bear the responsibility and know in my view who is responsible for the situation. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u47	Thank you for asking. Having the satisfaction of such a situation, perhaps no one here has the satisfaction, nor do I personally have the satisfaction. Everything we do, we're forced to do today. And everyone has to do it at their own level. As far as strategy is concerned today, it is determined by the end of this year that we should take it one step at a time. And in order to do that, we need to create mechanisms to implement this strategy, which are set out in those bills that are now being put forward to deal with these issues. That's the first one. As for history or the past. Each of us is and was in this story, we all know the flaws that were, I was talking about at the very beginning of my speech. As for the guilty in this situation, we too know them. With regard to making the right decisions, we will draw conclusions on the government, and I will say so, and you will know what we will do. As for those violations of the law, I believe that the investigation should also say its word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u48	Thank you, Victor Fedorovich. Mikola Kravchenko. I'll put it to the vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u49	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. A Turk. A Turk. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to ask you here. It is also laid down under the Rules. When there is a vote in the room, such fateful decisions as grain, food prices, you must as chairman read out what faction as a vote. I would like all the radios to know that the faction of the Agrarian Party has not voted three times for the Prime Minister to answer questions. I think that even the questions raised will help the Government in any way, let us say, identify some measures to get out of this terrible situation that we're in. Farmers who pay for each electoral campaign on how the village dies are voting against these decisions. I'd like the radio to know. And you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, should clearly report on how the faction voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u50	Note accepted. So, we're moving on to the discussion? How? I don't understand. Dear colleagues, I want to do it again, maybe we, the faction leaders, all of us, have to admit, have failed the mood of the MPs. Because, I quote, yesterday they said we shouldn't look for guilty ones, that we should make decisions. After that, it wasn't my offer, it was offered to listen to the Prime Minister's information for 15 minutes and then to consider and make decisions. If the leaders of the factions who proposed yesterday and today their representatives say otherwise, it is obvious that the factions ’ leaders either did not know the mood or offered a special way of dealing with the situation so that there would be opposition in our hall today. There's nothing else here. Please, Katerina Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u51	Dear fellow national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! Yesterday we had the opportunity to meet with the entire government block, the faction was almost in full stock to ask all the questions. In addition, to date our faction has been working on a draft decision that provides for additional measures to overcome the crisis that has arisen with prices. This bill will now be handed out, and it will be handed out yesterday to the faction leaders who were present at the meeting. One second. Today, we have presented a whole package of bills and authors, members of our faction, which can help to overcome the situation in concrete ways. We are absolutely convinced that the more we scream and not act, the worse we will make the situation of prices. We need to take immediate action. Everyone understands that, but playing in another person's trouble is not right. We need to make things right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u52	Thank you. Stanislav Gurenko, Simonenko. Well, then let's do someone alone, let's figure it out. Then there's Winsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u53	Gurenko, Communist faction, head of the Economic Policy Committee. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to draw your attention to this. The point is that the minister, neither in his information nor in his answers to the question, didn't answer the main question -- how much bread is in the state, where did 40 million tons of bread go? And this isn't about finding the guilty, and we don't need to, Catherine, to tell us that this is another person's trouble is the trouble of our electorate. Now, if this is about the bills, please tell me, what is the bearing of the zero bet on molasses for alcohol before saving the farm that you also filed? And so, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want clarity here. And the radio audience and our voters knew the answer to the main question -- what balance today at least the food grains -- the Supreme Council didn't get. And two weeks later, when the Supreme Council is on vacation, you can say anything. So I have to say, here are the people who worked under the totalitarian regime. On July 1, Ukraine knew exactly 100,000 tons of bread. And you don't know a million today! And you're telling me you're running some kind of policy. Vladimir Mikhailovich, this investigation is the result of the absence of any economic policy in the state. And enough to rely on past governments. The new government works for six months, it's time to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u54	Simonenko. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Hands pull again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u55	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! As I did yesterday, I stress once again what I asked the government yesterday to give a clear answer: What is the policy on price regulation and the protection of our voters? What are we talking about? Today, prices have been raised sharply on bread, on bread - making products tomorrow, and it is clear that prices for meat and milk will rise sharply, since large cattle have been cut out without, let us say, the policy of the State as to how the village is being supported today to change the sifting base to ensure that, let us say, the tribal head is reinstated and much more. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the fate of Ukraine is behind this. And if we don't find out today about the reasons that led to this situation, then tomorrow we're going to have commercial deals that today, with the support of the government, are practically profiting from this price. Tomorrow, whatever reserves are left there, two weeks more prices will be high. And the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u56	Thank you. Please, Winsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u57	Wynski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Prime Minister's statement did not remove the question, but added the question. It's pretty obvious. His position was clear that he wanted to fight it. But it is not clear whether this fight will be effective. I don't see any real mechanisms today, how does the government have to return prices to January 1st? Is this mood, or is it not? The key question that the population of Ukraine today must have is that there is no answer to it. Prices will come back, will prices be forever? If prices remain forever, all our conversations in this room are worthless. I think the Prime Minister made a good gesture when. answer the question. I think most people now understand maybe a little bit deeper this situation, because I think they don't really understand this situation, obviously they have other interests, other trends among the majority. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think the situation requires a discussion and a clear plan of action. And we have no right.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u58	Thank you. Ivan Boki. What's that all about? What's the point? Well, you want to wait for the queue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, Reverend Victor Fedorovich! But anyway, Victor Fedorovich, we didn't get the answer to the main question: when will the prices go back to the April level? Sadly, that was not the answer. This is once. The other one. We can't, we don't have the right to go on vacation until we solve this issue, which is not a foreign problem. Maybe it's a foreign disaster for that woman who said it was someone who's profiting from another person's misery. No one is profiting and has no one to take advantage of another’s distress. It's our common misfortune, it's our people's misery. And we can't just take it and stop in the middle. So I think that this issue today needs serious discussion, and the government needs to be clear and precise about what not only will be its strategy, but also its tactics in the coming days in order to stabilize the situation, not at the level that has been achieved today, but at the April level.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u60	Thank you. Yes, Valery Pavlovich Pashtowatenko, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u61	I would like to thank Victor Fedorovich for agreeing to answer the questions of the Ukrainian national deputies and I would like to make a proposal immediately: we can only fix prices by having the only grain or flour in the State Reserve or by having it in general. So I'm going to ask you the following question: cancel the decision on the allocation of $600 million. the money that will go to repay the loans that farmers will take in an amount of 600 million dollars. In addition, the issue of the allocation of 200-400 million Money and to seek international companionship to make debts for the following year, our external debt increases to a minimum of 200 million. We've had our debts delayed and we've sent them to buy bread. Today, crops began to be harvested and restocked. This will allow us to stabilize prices in the market, to have bread in the state reserve, and to remove the questions that our voters are asking us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u62	Thank you. Raisa Richterov, then Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u63	The faction of Ukraine, the richer Raisa. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to take a few moments apart today. First. We must note with you that, over these weeks, the government is constantly informing citizens and national deputies not only about the situation but also about the measures it is taking. So today we have to say, for our citizens, for our constituents with you, that the government controls the situation. That's the first one. It's different. Yesterday, with the faction leaders, we agreed that if Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich reported today's agro-industry bill, he would deepen some of the answers, strengthen others. And third. In order for us to be able to help you, as we promised the government, in today’s decision, we need to consider today, and by adopting tomorrow’s laws, on Friday or Wednesday, to hear the interim information of the agrarian sector of the government. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u64	Mikhail Dobkin, please. We agreed that there would be a Deputy Prime Minister's information if the Prime Minister did not speak. I'd like to introduce this precision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u65	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. As the consideration of the first issue has been delayed today, I would like to ask Vladimir Mihajlovich, if possible, to put to the vote the question of whether to vote in favour of extending today's work so that we can address all the remaining issues on the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u66	It's a very wise decision. I'm putting to the vote Michael Dobkin's proposal that we demonstrate our practical work today, and we'll work until we review the meeting schedule. Let's check it out. And I'm going to announce it to everyone right now. Please vote. [[11:10:08]] For 132 On the board, please explain. Yes, please, Oleg Belarus. I have the right to make a motion for a vote. I put her up. Didn't you get it? They didn't. All of it. Please, Valentin Grigorovich! I'm asking for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u67	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukrainian citizens are interested in a full, detailed discussion of this major issue today, the hottest issue. So on behalf of a number of factions, I propose that we take the time and give each faction three minutes to each faction to express its recommendations, demands and wishes, so that Ukrainian citizens know what positions, what recommendations today will be produced in the Supreme Council, these last hopes of our suffering people. Thank you. Please put to the vote. Three minutes at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u68	I've put this proposal to the vote three times. Let's do it then. If I have to, I'll put them five more times. But let's work. Yes. Simonenko, the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u69	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to take into account our faction's opinion that we insist on discussing the Prime Minister's information on specific actions and actions taken by the government. And in order for us to figure out, first, the reasons, and secondly, the reasons, clearly defined: and yet, what depends on the Supreme Council, and what the government should do. Not today, it is only formally, so to speak, that we report on specific actions, but no action is taken to bring about an elementary order in the state. Please do not hesitate to discuss it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, let's do this. Since what was agreed yesterday by the leaders of the MPs and factions, today you've actually destroyed and we've basically used 1 hour 10 minutes fruitlessly instead of making the right decision, I want to emphasize once again: faction leaders have agreed and made the decision. And the proposal was faction leaders. Then I'm re-voting the proposal to now allow the representative of each faction to speak within three minutes, and then we'll work. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[11:13:04]] For 208 The factions. I'll also ask the factions to give me how they wanted to work. Dear colleagues, calm down, please. It's being announced. Well, what do you suggest we do? I voted three times, enough Peter Mikolaiovich, we have other factions. Please don't make me uncomfortable. Let's work. Parliament has not accepted. We agreed, once again, that we're going to make the right decisions today and tomorrow, next Wednesday we're going to listen to information that's specifically done. Now it's just going to be general conversation. Do we need them? We need a result. There will be a discussion, everyone will speak, they will talk about their position. Not at all, Peter Mikolaiovich. So let's move on to the draft laws, and when we look at them, let's speak and express our position. I can put it again, I can put it again, Peter Mikolayovich. I'm asking the chairman of the regulatory committee to tell you if there's a rule. I say once again, there is will, there is no need to choke, tomorrow you will strangle something else, there is Parliament's will. I will not give my word, there is Parliament's will and follow Parliament's will. No, I'll close the meeting now. That's enough. I beg you, there will be no more words. All of it. I'm going to close this session and I'm going to go on TV, and I'm going to tell you how you feel about the Ukrainian people all taken together. That's it. You've done more than necessary today. They've already said it. That's how it's gonna be. You're gonna talk. I say again, I'll put it to a vote, then I'll close the session. That's it. Let's work, there won't be any again. All right, calm down. Once again, I put to the vote to allow time for representatives of MPs and factions to speak for three minutes. Please be sure. [[11:15:47.]] For-200 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! Alexander Frost. So, do you need a process, or do you need a result? I'm sure you need the whole process together. Alexander Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u71	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear representatives of the majority! Yesterday, at a meeting with the Prime Minister and those responsible for the agrarian sector, you may have noticed that representatives and oppositions, and representatives of the majority of them, did not advise the government at all, but today's discussion briefly, making proposals from all the factions would also be useful for society to calm the public, and on the other hand, it would be useful for the government to make specific decisions. There's no speculation on the problem here, but it's extremely sharp, and you know it, especially the Marjorie MPs, meeting today in the fields. How can it be said that the government controls the situation, it's kind of to blame him for raising prices, let's say, to corrupt cultures six times. These are simple things. Let us briefly, without indignation, by the fact that most of these woes are not the result of the activities of today’s government. And this would be done perfectly correctly, useful for the case. Put again on the vote, let most support this proposal, and in the end it was the procedure, not the procedure. It's a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u72	Thank you. I, my esteemed colleagues, will quote, in order not to be blamed, Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz on the Conciliation Council. It was your offer, Alexander Alexandrovich. 15 minutes to hear the Prime Minister's information. Dear colleagues, now you're proposing quite different. I quote, "There should be information on this subject tomorrow. We have a political situation, not just economic one. So once again I repeat my proposal, let the Prime Minister say for 15 minutes what he should say." They did. I'll put it to the vote again. Then let's get to work. Three minutes to talk from factions about the APC situation. And let's stick to it, you notice that this is all being done democratically. [[11:18:20]] For 213 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. And notice that I voted. I'll read it now, one minute. Please put the information back on the board. I only read for: "Our Ukraine" - 97, communists - 57, "The Regions of Ukraine" - 0, "Industry and Entrepreneurs", "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, "Social Democrats" - 1, "Deminitiates" - 1, "Deminitives" - 20, "European Choice" - 0, "The People" - 0, "The People" - 0, "The House of July Timoshenko - 16, "The Agrarian Party -13, NDP - 0, "The People's Choice" - 0, "The People's Choice" - 8. Dear colleagues, I think we're going to discuss the bill and we're going to have an opportunity to speak. We're essentially in the middle of a discussion. Let us now hear the information of the Head of Parliament’s delegation at PARE - Boris Illich Oliynik. Let's keep going to the bill. Enough of the procedure. There's no procedure anymore. Oh, this one? Please. Sergey the Headate.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u73	Dear Mr. Head of Parliament and honourable Mr. Head of Delegation! I don't see it in the Minister of Foreign Affairs' government bed. Do you think that the procedure for dealing with this issue involves the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the parliamentary delegation to Strasbourg is going to the beach?Oh, my God! I am asking this question in connection with the fact that Ukraine’s representative in Strasbourg, headed by Mrs. Stanic, who does not even have the authority of a foreign minister, has succeeded in an unprecedented event. I would like to inform the Parliament of Ukraine, the people of Ukraine, and the Government of Ukraine, including the Minister of Foreign Affairs, whose indignant reaction in the steering circles of the Council of Europe has been triggered by the actions of the Ukrainian representative in Strasbourg. So I think that the foreign minister should be here, listening to the delegation's report and, accordingly, should hear what's going on in his office.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u74	Dear colleague, Sergey Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! The Foreign Minister is currently in Crimea, where a summit is held. Oh, is that it? So he didn't fly away, and he was supposed to leave this morning. In addition, respected colleagues present by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who runs the government. I think that's enough. As for the situation with our representation, I'm asking you to give an assignment, prepare a mission to the Ministry and the Cabinet of Ministers to study this situation, and we can inform the National Deputies. Please, Boris Illihu.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u75	Thank you, at last. Dear colleagues, now, to the timeline of events. As you know, on June 23-27 this year, a session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe was held in Strasbourg, with the participation of members of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: Oliynik, Rahanski, Gladys, Glaciers, Jevago, Karpov, Kostenko, representatives of the delegations of Babourin and Šibko. Among the main issues of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in Central and Eastern Europe, the Council of Europe and the Convention on the Future of Europe, threats to the activities of the International Criminal Court of the sphere in which the European Convention on Human Rights, agriculture and the enlargement of the European Union, the International Organization for Migration, fundamental rights and freedoms of Greek Cypriots and Maronites in the Northern part of Cyprus, the colonization of the occupied part of Cyprus by Turkish colonists, migration associated with trafficking in women and prostitution, human trafficking in Europe for Palestine refugees, political prisoners in Azerbaijan, the rights of persons held in the United States, Afghanistan and the Huntans. In addition, the President of the Slovak Republic, the President of the Lemier Bank, spoke before the Assembly, head of the Council of Europe’s Committee of Ministers, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Moldova’s Dudau. On June 23, the Bureau heard an independent expert's report on the legal aspects of the Gongadze Krüger case on the results of its work in the framework of the credentials received from the Bureau. Recognizing that a number of errors had been made earlier in the Gongadze investigation, the reporter pointed out that he felt that the situation had improved since the appointment of Henprokur to Ukraine. After thanking the expert, however, I expressed my doubts about his claim that the case was closed. Rahanski and Olijnik, and others, were initiated to amend the draft resolution on the contribution of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to economic development in Central and Eastern Europe. The amendment proposes that the Assembly address the bank with a call for immediate credit to the Chernobyl AES Shelter Fund and the construction of compensatory works at the Hmielnicki and Ravenske stations in accordance with the 1995 Taf Memorandum. In addition to the publication of the official document in the Assembly, prepared by the Rahanski and signed by 23 other members of the PARE, including Kostenak, Olijnik, other written declaration-calling of PARE to the UN, the governments of the Great Seven States of the European Union and the Bank on the provision of adequate scientific and technical and economic assistance to Ukraine as soon as possible to eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Vitaly Jakovitch Šibko participated in the discussion of reports on areas where the European Convention on Human Rights could not be applied. In the debates on the report "The contribution of the European Bank to the economic development of Central and Eastern European countries", which were attended by Rahanski, Gladys, Kostenko, they expressed concern about the delay in the bank's financial assistance to the country in building a new sarcophagus for CHAES and the construction of compensatory powers in the Plains and Hmielnicky. A sharp discussion took place on Cyprus’s problem. In its resolution, the Assembly requests the Turkish Cypriot administration and Turkey to end the "attomo-braze" on Greeks and Maronites to eliminate the consequences of the population's expropriation, to ensure the freedom to receive education and to exercise the right to worship. During the discussion on "Positive experience of autonomous regions as a source of inspiration for resolving conflicts in Europe", Rahanski spoke. The Assembly considered, in an urgent debate, the issue of the threat to the international criminal court. virtually all of the discussants stressed the need to ensure the effective work of the newly created international criminal court, the vast majority expressed regret over the unwillingness of the current US administration to sign the statute from this court, as well as the practice of making bilateral agreements in the United States with the countries that have acceded to the statute. The Assembly adopted a resolution and recommendation, which specifically requests the Governments of Israel and the Palestinian Authority not to use refugees for political purposes, recommends that the Committee of Ministers encourage the member states of the R & E to support the idea of creating a United Nations special fund for Palestinian refugees and to provide national budgets for them. The issue of the Council of Europe and the convention on the future of Europe was discussed by way of extraordinary debates after 16 months of hard work, and the convention finally reached agreement on the draft Constitution for an enlarged Europe. Mr Halos, as he welcomed, said that the draft Constitution contained the legal basis for the EU to join the European Convention on Human Rights and to extend its cooperation with the Council of Europe in all areas of activity. A report on the rights of persons held by the United States in Afghanistan and Guantanamo stated that over the months following the end of the conflict in Afghanistan, 600 individuals from different countries of the world are being held in U.S. military institutions. Among them are children 13 to 15 years of age. The Assembly expressed concern about inhumane conditions in prisons, believing that further retention without clearly defined status was illegal and unacceptable. In this connection, parliamentarians have asked the United States to provide conditions for the maintenance of the above - mentioned persons in accordance with existing international standards, and to grant them the status of prisoners of war. This question was raised by Boris Olinick. On June 25, a meeting took place between the deputy head of the permanent delegation of Rahansky and the Hensek Council of Europe, Schwimmer and Hensek PARE. Obviously, I've shown only a little bit of that saturated program that we've been working on every day from 8 a.m. to 20th, or later, because there's still work on committees and political groups and talks in the towers. The full report will be provided by the delegation in an appropriate manner to get to know the entire MP Corps. Our findings are: the permanent delegation worked in harmony, which was facilitated by the permanent representation of Ukraine and the secretariat of the delegation. With regard to the introduction of the agenda of the daily September session of the PARJE, the issue of the status of Ukraine's performance of duties and obligations is considered a priority in the near future - consideration and approval of the new Criminal Procedure and Civil Procedure Codes. With a view to more rapid media coverage of the work of the people’s deputies during the session, it is proposed that the number of parliamentary journalists be increased. In order to ensure the effective work of the permanent delegation of the Supreme Council during the PARJ session, we consider it appropriate to improve the technical equipment of the permanent representation room. I think in the time remaining, my colleagues in the delegation, if they want to, can supplement it. Thank you for your attention. And I'm going to say that without protecting the Prime Minister, he's working so little that he hasn't even been able to sow. We should ask those who sowed the wind, and now let them reap the storm. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u76	Thank you. Have a seat, please. But, Boris Illihu, please make written suggestions for improving the work of the Council of Europe. Please, Sergey Petrovich Headate.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u77	Dear Mr. Head, I would like to inform the Parliament, the National Deputies and the Minister personally about the incident that took place during this session. Dear Anatoly Maksimovich, Boris Illich, mentioned the report of Mr. Kruger, the office responsible for the Gongadze case. Mr. Krueger’s report as an expert on legal matters listened on Monday morning. After this the Ukrainian representation, which is headed by the well-known Mrs. Stanik, on which you have no administration and are now preparing for a rest in Bern, but in the rank of Ambassador, they circulated this report in Ukraine on which the Gryphon stands."", the graffiti of secrecy. And Ukrainian media have spread three or two things in the Ukrainian community that Kruger's report was approved by the Bureau, that the Council of Europe continues to trust the Attorney General of Sands in this matter, because he has made a big leap forward compared to Poteměkko, and that the Council of Europe recommends that Sandos close the criminal case of Gongadze. But I'm sorry, it's a complete lie. I had a meeting with Mr. Schider, President of the Assembly on Friday morning. He was outraged at the fact that the Ukrainian representation had spread a report in the world that contained a code of secrecy. That's the first one. Because the report was accepted by the Bureau, and there was no endorsement of the work of the Piscoun, there was no decision that the Council of Europe would continue to refer solely to the information of Henprocuror Piscoon. This approved document had no conclusion as to the need to close the Gongadze case. This is an unprecedented case. And in this situation, I think you need to think about whether you need even more shame. You're an excellent human diplomat, you've spent so many years, you know, you know what it means to represent another document of another organization that has no bearing on representation. It's a shame, it's really a shame. And think of the need for such an ambassador now in Switzerland. Now to the national deputies and to the media. The Council of Europe does not trust the Attorney General, Piscoun, and there is no such position. The Council of Europe is not going to close its control over the Gongadze case. And now the leaders of the political groups of the Parliamentary Assembly, together with the heads of the committees, are thinking about how to ensure further control of the Council of Europe and the Parliamentary Assembly over the inactivity of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine for two years after the investigation of the Gongadze case. And in September, while listening to Ukrainian commitments, this issue will definitely be raised, and the Council of Europe will continue to ensure its own control. But I'm surprised that the Ukrainian Parliament itself, in its year of activity, is, as it were, in Russian, "didn't catch up" with either the Attorney General and its parliamentary commission. What is the great success of prosecutor Piscoon in this matter, and where is she at the end?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! Let's work. Let us now consider the following issues of the order of the day. Georgi Omelanovic, please calm down. One minute out of the room. Microphone Omelchenka Grigori Omelanovic Please, there's an Omelchenka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u79	Gregory Omelchenko, head of the Temporary Investigation Commission I thank Sergey the Chief, a member of the investigative commission who raised the issue of the activities of Attorney General Piscoon, the inability of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, despite a six-year requirement to hear the information of the Attorney-General and the commission of inquiry on the progress of the circumstances of the murder of George Gongadze. Again, he highlights what he said yesterday. Last week, on Tuesday, Piscoon told me, as the head of the commission of inquiry, he said, "The appointed accomplices of the kidnapping and murder of George Gongadze, as well as two participants in the murder of Igor Alexandrov." And another phrase is, "I kept my word when I promised to solve the murder of George Gongadze." On my question, how will the head of the commission of inquiry say, "When will you, Mr. Attorney General, officially inform the Supreme Council and the commission of inquiry?" - The sandman said, "When it's necessary." This caused me, Your Honor, Gennady Vasilovich, great indignation as a national deputy. After all, the Attorney - General is beginning to act in a political sense or as a necessity. I'm asking again, I don't know what, let's hear from the Attorney General about the progress of the criminal investigation into the murder of George Gongadze and Igor Aleksanderov, let's discuss this information and listen to the information of the commission of inquiry. It's been a year. Then the question arises: Why did we create a commission of inquiry? Please, let's do it this week, or at most, next week, let's listen to this information. What is more, it is not necessary, under the Rules, to vote for inclusion in the agenda. Thank you, Gennady Vasilovich, for your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u80	On this issue, about the commission of inquiry for the murder of journalist George Gongadze, in fact, your interim commission of inquiry put this question on the Conciliation Council, it's part of the agenda. But we have to vote. We have that question tomorrow. If we get to that, let's vote. Dear colleagues, I propose we move on to the next issue of the agenda. But once again, I would like to go to Boris Illich Oilynik, please make your suggestions for improving the work of the Council of Europe. Colleagues, let us consult with you. Draft Laws 3602 and 3649-d apply to zero rates. If you and I are going to look at these two draft laws, that is, we will hear the head of the committee of Tereshuk, the first deputy head of the Committee on Finances of Tsushka, Yukhnowski Oleg Ivanovich. And then let's talk about both. Is there no objection? Please report to the head of the subcommittee on agrarian policy and land relations, Tereshuk Sergey Mikolajovich. Please. Please, Vladimir Alexiyovich. Handcuff, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u81	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Hennady Andryovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill in question is not included in the agenda of the day session. First, vote for their inclusion and then start the discussion. And what I'm saying is, don't take any further words. Of course, all of these bills that we have here are meant to lower the tin on the bread, the bread-boiled ones, to remove this fertilization. So I propose that, apart from those who are written down, we include a bill submitted by the people's budgets, Simonenko and others, on a moratorium on the prices of bread and bread and bread products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, we have discussed the matter today. If there's such a proposal, there's no objection, let's re-vote from this issue 3602 and 3649d. And even better, if we're the whole block -- 3674, 3375, 3022 -- that's all we're going to do with the agri-industrial complex right now, we're going to vote, we're going to take it into the agenda and we're going to talk, we're not going to waste time. Is there no objection? Turn on the "Race" system, we'll vote. [[11:41:15]] For 219 Maybe someone didn't hear? Come on again, turn the system on. We were determined. Vote! We were determined to consider these issues first today, so there should be no problem. [[11:41:39]] For 332 Decision taken. Please. Sergey Mikolaiovich, please report. Tomich Ivan Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u83	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs! Clearly, with a view to stabilizing the grain market and preventing the rise in bread prices, it is necessary to create conditions for saturation of the grain market. As a response, it is clear that the price of bread will be reduced. So to that end, Bill 3602 has been introduced to settle and stabilize the situation. First of all, the bill is proposed. Set the zero import duty rate for the added value tax by 31 December 2003. The bill was reviewed twice, reconciled with the government and the ministry, sparked the principle of disagreement between articles two, four, and five, as far as volumes are concerned, and as far as quota mechanisms are concerned. The agreed position of the committee in the bill is to support a bill that excludes the articles, i.e. the deadline is not set, the volume of imports and the order in which the opportunity for grain is provided. There are also changes to the article two for the stenographer within the scope defined in the first article of this law. Thank you for your attention. If you have any questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u84	Ivan Fedorovich, we have an agreement. In one block of 3649, can you report? And then two bills dealing with zero bet to discuss. Please. The report will now be completed, and there will be questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u85	Bill 3649, where the draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of imports of agricultural products with regard to zero import rates, was not considered by the Committee under the Rules, is not my position personally from the bill on imports of molasses far from the time and should not be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u86	Okay. The committee's position is clear. Please sign up for the questions. Light up, please. Joseph of Viennese. The next one is Storm.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u87	Wynski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. As far as the molasses bill is concerned, it's just speculation on misery. And you just have to name it so that Mrs. Vaschuk and Mr. They're just insolently using the situation to resolve their private interests. This is not the case at all in a situation that is present in the state. As far as Bill 3602 is concerned. That's my question. Why the bill provides only 2 million tons. Ukraine lacks 7 million tons. We have to take them anyway. The point is that we have to solve the issue once and for all. Because if we drive two now and then there'll be speculation again, because there won't be enough of these two to cover all the needs of the grain, and the situation won't be solved. That means we didn't essentially solve them, just at a high price, people would speculate. And the next question. We're talking about bringing grain, but we're not talking about the price at which it's going to come true. If we're going to give the benefits of the bills of lading, customs and VAT, there's going to have to be a strictly regulated price for selling this grain. There is no such thing in this bill. This means, again, that we're going to drive with the benefits and sell six bracelets on the market. And that makes no difference to people, but the price in the market is going to be high, because it's impossible to suppress the situation in the market with that amount of grain. I'd like you to comment on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u88	Thank you. Indeed, the issue of quotas is two million. I would like to emphasize once again what was the principle, and where was the discussion, two, two and a half, three or you call seven. Therefore, the committee clearly took a position on the matter. Do not put limits in volumes, put limits in deadlines. It is quite clear that by the end of the deadline, the food market for grain saturation would be clear, and then the government would be able to come up with a proposal to continue if the term was needed. As far as price policy is concerned, I strongly believe that if we subtract 40 euros of customs and settle the value added tax issue, so we encourage saturation by importing grain into the internal market and by virtue of the premium data, the grain will be imported much cheaper, so the price will be accordingly cheaper in the internal market.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u89	Please, the Vashtuk line. The name Vashtuk replica, called Vastuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u90	The truth is, if you are not to be mentioned, you need to sit in the hall, like some, doing nothing. Neither Vashtuk nor Martinowski had passed the molasses law. It's Tsushka's law, representing your faction, dear socialists! About the molasses. Therefore, do not translate from a sick person’s head into a healthy one. Read the laws you give to the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u91	The word is Shurmi. Next Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u92	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The adoption of the bill and, in particular, the establishment of zero import duty on food grains and the exemption from the added cost tax could lead to a lack of funds to Ukraine's public budget in 2003. Proposals for the establishment of zero-rate food grain for import duty and tax exemption for added value do not comply with the requirements of article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on Taxation System, according to which the rates, tax and assembly mechanisms and tax benefits cannot be established or amended by other Ukrainian laws other than taxation laws. In doing so, the bill does not refer to tax laws and therefore cannot set any tax rules. Please comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u93	Thank you. Strongly convinced, the committee had just come to such a decision that the rates of duty and value added tax would not affect the income portion of the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u94	Kalinczuk Vasil Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u95	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party First of all, I'd like to say that the committee head said that the budget for this year did not provide for the cost of importing grain, because the import of grain was not foreseen. Secondly, I thank my colleague Winsky, who preceded me somewhere and said we don't need to set the volume of grain imports. And that's why it's supported. But I have one more question. Perhaps we should, Ivan Fedorovich, record that the mechanism of price regulation for food grain and order of control of its implementation is established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u96	I support you, Vasil Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u97	Alexiyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u98	May I have the floor to the People's Deputy of Cherniak?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear reporter, distinguished colleagues. I think we've moved the accent a little bit. The question isn't just how many seeds we bring in: whether 2 million, or 3 million, or even 7 million. The question is, how many seeds are we taking out? So this is about the need to regulate not only imports but also exports. If we can buy grain, our Ukrainian grain, grown here on our land, at low prices, and then export it, we can't do as much as we want. Therefore, we cannot approach the matter on a one - way basis. You have to ask questions not only about imports, but also about exports: how will the export issues of grain be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u100	Thank you very much. We were just looking at the situation and the Prime Minister's information on the situation today. Today, we know the situation of domestic prices for grain and grain products. So I am deeply convinced that the internal price today is far superior to that of the world. So clearly today, import will prevail in this situation, and creating conditions for market saturation will allow you to just balance external prices and internal prices.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u101	Thank you. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u103	Draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of imports of agricultural products concerning zero import duty. Reported to Zushko, the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking. We'll discuss it in a package. Pussy Vasil Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, my name has just been said that this bill has been submitted to me. The bill was submitted by a colleague of Kaletnik, and the bill was considered on our committee yesterday. We have submitted a joint bill signed by four people, which proposes to import food grain, feed grain, before 1 January 2004 to allow goods without duties and quotas. For one simple reason, when we have tariff quotas, we create priorities for some financial groups, for others we make them, say, limit or increase the bribery of these activities. In view of the lack of grain in the market, and the Government has spoken and said today, the proposal is to limit it only until 1 January 2004. Why until 1 January 2004? By this time, we will see what winter crops we will have. So far, the market can be filled. It's all about the mollusks. When we passed the bill, I was based on the data of Easter and the food trade. It's not a matter of principle, I'm not lobbying the question. If that's true, it is today. The economy, let me confirm, may then vote, but it is also proposed that, without restriction, the only restriction be placed on the public liquor plant to provide them with raw materials. But today, the representatives of the sacramental areas say that we have a molasses in Ukraine, that paragraph we are ready to do, I myself, as the author of this paragraph, am ready to remove it. That's what, in principle, the proposal for a question. With regard to molasses, I request that the Presbyterian give the floor to the Minister of Agriculture, listen to the opinion and then take the decision. Thank you. My report is closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u105	We're gonna ask questions to get our bearings, aren't we? Please sign up, five minutes to ask. And I think we're going to ask the First Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u106	If possible, it would be better for MinAPC to give its opinion on the molasses.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u107	Then after the question. Please sign up for the question. Basil Nadrag, National Choice MP, please. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ I'll ask you a question with your permission. First. Buttermilk and grain for alcohol. We are looking forward to a large crop of corn and fodder, to barley. They have to pay the price, and the producers will use it. Therefore, molasses and alcohol are harmful to the farmer. I respect you, and I want you to take this question down for yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u108	I answered you right away. The question was raised, I told you, from which organizations. If you and the people's deputies are in the Chamber, it is the APC who thinks that this paragraph should be removed, we do not object, and we have no problems on the Committee. We'll take it off, let's get some grain. No questions asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u109	Please, Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u110	I have a short question for you, Vasil Petrovich. Maybe you know, because I wanted to give it to the Prime Minister and the first reporter. How many seeds are being taken out of Ukraine every month? Through our borders, there's a river of wagons with grain. Is it? Ukrainian. Who's taking him out? Today, no Prime Minister, no one said a word. And I've got time left, I'm going to pass on the word to the Winnies.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u111	Joseph of Viennese.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u112	Viennese. I really made a mistake the last time I called the name Vaschuk and Matrinovski, and I apologize. I just moved the document on the table, and I apologize to you again. But as for molasses, my position remains that way. We can't solve this situation with grain right now. These are different things and different approaches to these problems must be. Vasil Petrovich, I ask you, as the author, remove paragraph 13 on molasses from your decision, remove it today, because this is really speculation on the problem. And with regard to paragraph twelve, he's actually in this bill, in my opinion, better than in the previous one, because he's not creating opportunities for corruption. The previous project creates such opportunities for corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u113	Josif Vicentyevich, I would like to agree with you to remove this problem from this bill in order to adopt paragraph 12, it is necessary today both for the market and for the economy, we're taking down the molasses, you're really right, let's see, in the autumn, the cleaning of the dress in Ukraine. If there's a deficit, we'll be back in November-December. Therefore, as author and colleague of Kaletnik, I agree, we delete this paragraph. As a matter of fact, Evgeny Kirilovich, your question. I'm not sure that Ukrainian grain is being exported today for one reason or another. I'll say it in terms of economics. Today, prices in our domestic market are higher than in our external market. And I'm sure it's better to sell the grain here than to take it out. That's why I'm not in charge of the government, and I've given you my opinion. And if someone takes out their leftovers, maybe some. But I can't answer for the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u114	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u115	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Your Honor, I have three short questions. Yesterday, there was an offer to listen to the Ukrainian Border Guard and Security Service to report to whose ships had not yet been unloaded, and behind the papers, the grain had already been removed. You probably know that very well. Before the meeting, I asked the agrarian committee if they were looking at your project. They didn't look at him. I asked you how to stop this paragraph 13 that you're writing about shadow schemes to import molasses just for industrial processing at state liquor factories. And Mr. Kaletnik promised you'd take that off. But you're here today, and now you're just saying you're filming it. So I have a question: would you please tell me who will be allowed to import the grain, or would it be permitted to import the Reservoir? Or, as the project says, it is the “Bread of Ukraine”. And at what price will it be realized? Why are we in the law when we're writing "temporarily allowed," we're not writing that we can implement the seed at 3, 1 percent, or 1.5 percent? Why don't we write it? It's a special law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u116	Yuri Anatolyevich, I repeat, paragraph 13. I really don't insist as one of the authors, we take this item off. And if necessary, you can go back to him, because now, in fact, the situation with the lamp is not yet known, you can go back to him in the fall. So the point is off, please don't touch it again. I agree with you. Although yesterday, you know, there were some bills, we did the best we could, we put several laws together on the committee. That's why it's possible that in haste it's a mistake, it's a law that's been passed today, you know, yesterday only the committee was held about ours. That's why we've considered our committee. However, duties, taxes are a priority or a prerogative of the Committee on Finance and Banking, but we always listen to the opinion of the APC Committee. The APC, it is recommended that we always listen to them, they have endorsed our approach. Next. Paragraph 12 you're talking about. This law allows only one to be imported by everyone, including DAC “Ukrainian bread” not to create corruption around the bread issue. Don't create. Condemn all those who want to, any business entity, of course, in compliance with the law of crossing the border and so on. And we're exempting you from duty so that you don't increase the price at the expense of duty. Why? Because this grain is going to be processed, it's going to give us taxes -- VAT, profits, wages and everything. And here's the issue of government regulation. This is a separate law where we have to introduce, by law, that the prices of what you say are the bread, for example, regulated by the State. Today, all existing legislation does not regulate prices, perhaps unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u117	Thank you, Vasil Grigorovitch. Please, just sit tight. The executioner, please, is very brief about your project. And then from the committee, I'm going to ask Igor Yuhnowski. Igor Yukhnowsky? Oleg Yuhnowski, I'm sorry, Oleg Yuhnowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u118	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, I want to consult you, we have so many bills and we've taken time to discuss information. How do you see us working, because we have a 16-hour job on the committees? Is there any objection? I thank you for your warm support. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u120	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues. I'd like to briefly, as the drafter of the bill, to report, first of all, that the situation that we have today with the widespread demand for bread, flour, groats, pasta, is caused by the natural climate conditions of last year, which did not bring together much of the sown areas and crops of 2002 and has remained a major problem for 2003 in the area of non-viroreals, which, of course, has affected the relevant crop of the year 2003 of bright crops. And it's clear that there's a lot of us in this room that thinks we're very deep agrarians, that we're very much in love with our people, and that we're particularly in love with the entire electoral community, and we're predicting, and we're in different ways assessing the situation until we predict a deficit of 10 million. Ten tons of grains and up to two, up to 1.5 million. tons. Everyone has the right to make a mistake, everyone has the right to make that prediction, because, really. Each one comes out probably more from the area or region where he has already seen these suitable areas, saw which is forming crops today in the winter culture, and what forecast can be given with almost a hundred percent of the guarantees on corn, because we already see everything that's in it, and even after the good rains, they can only repair the nature of the seed, but they can already affect the yield, probably. It's not going to matter. So all I want to do is point out that, really, we need 27 million dollars for Ukraine. Tones, including implementation at about 2 million. A ton of grain exports, it's on those contracts where it's probably a very serious responsibility placed in these contracts and probably someone to not lose their face will try to buy the grain in Ukraine and still export it. So this needs that I call 27 million. Ton, it's counted together with two million leased in export contracts. We can get about 22-21 million -- I'm saying I don't claim to be absolutely correct either, but something like this comes up with the group I worked with, including the APK. Hence, the need to import about three to five million tons into Ukraine is formed. In this bill, my colleagues and I tried to put in place mechanisms that did not create corruption and all the other negative things. So there are no restrictions on the number of structures that are allowed to be imported, to the list of who has and how many, and the issuance of different quotas, we have withdrawn in this bill. I'd also like to highlight the immediate answer to the questions that have already been asked here, about the inclusion of this and the removal of the train moment on the track. Dear friends, I would like to say that we have a problem not only with grain, but with bread. This is what we talked about today because these are the first symptoms of a reaction to weather conditions and possible predictions of a lack of bread. But you and I, dear friends, forget that today the lack of the current green feed of the animal industry has led to the fact that a cow in the village can be bought for 300 bucks -- four and a half centrifuges of living weight and 50 pounds of living weight. So it's also a symptom of what we have to support, feed and preserve the animal sector of the entire potential of the Ukrainian agro-industrial complex. That's what led us to consider that the main type of food we've had this year to support our head in Ukraine and not to dump it -- it's going to be like 10 to 15 years ago: straw with mud and a stream. And then we leave the alcohol industry with the very technical and high-octane oxygen supplements without the raw material. So I'm going to explain which of the sources we came up with to form here and to import the stream. But in view of the proposals made by the national deputies and the suspicion that it should be vodka, even though I am a professional, I want to say that God does not let the Lord of Vienna drink vodka out of the stream. It's made only by the bogeymen, mixing it with water. So I think as the author I'm taking the last position on the track, although I support Vasil Petrovich Tsushka's words that we're going to live, we're going back to this autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u121	Thank you. Oleg Yuhnowski, please, from the committee very briefly. And let's move on to the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Unfortunately, the committee was unable to consider draft Law 3649-D because it was registered only late in the evening and did not come to the committee. But today we consulted practically all the members of the committee in the session room. Most members of the committee still agree with this idea that the draft can be adopted by 3649-D on amendments to Article 7 of the Law on State regulation of imports of agricultural products, except for Article 7, paragraph 13, which provides for the duty-free importation into the customs territory of Ukraine of molasses. Just now, this proposal is also agreed with the author of the project, Grigory Mikolayovich. Gregory Mikolaiovich, do you agree that you are filming article 7, paragraph 13? So our proposal is that in this way a project can be taken as a basis. But there are a few issues that are not yet in line with the previous project that we discussed, a project that was introduced by national MP Sigal, concerning the procedure for paying taxes on the added value of importing grain in Ukraine. I think it would be appropriate, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to entrust our committee, the Committee on Finance and Banking, together with the government, to work out a harmonized solution by tomorrow just in that position, to step out with the agreed option and to vote on the bill as a whole tomorrow. On the basis of this, once again, draft 3649-D with the exception of article 7, paragraph 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u123	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Sergey Ribuk, Minister of APK.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u124	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! We strongly support the proposals made by the people's deputies and, above all, the People's Deputy of Vienna regarding the fact that we need to separate the main problem from others, not to draw up. First of all, it has to be about bringing food grain, first of all. The other one. Do not limit this amount to avoid allocations, bureaucratic fibers, and so on. Third. Maybe it's already on the second reading. Do not go to the limit until January 1st, because the main scales, the volume of imports may fall for the subsequent period, and this may to some extent lower the price on the internal market of its own grain. So we ask the Supreme Council to approach in this way, without any restrictions, to import food grain, so that there are the most operators not specifically defined, there, ministries. On the market, so that there is competition, and thus there are affordable prices, and import prices as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. On board, please give the names of the national MPs that have been signed up for the discussion. 15 minutes. Yuri Carmazin. Vladimir Leschchenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u126	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, reputable Ukrainian people. We are considering a very serious question today. The question today was: Why is it cheap to cut off cattle? Because meat is taken into the free economic zone in Donetsk and into the priority development zone. Stop making meat there today, and you will see prices rise in the internal market. I refer to the government that is here, to John Grigorovitch Kirilenko in particular, and I respect him as an expert, and I ask for an opinion on this. Now, with regard to the settlement of the issues raised by implementation, imports of food grains of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, today when the Prime Minister tried to answer something, it was not the Prime Minister’s call — it was the call most of the people of Ukraine made by force. [[I'm saying, I tried, because it went really, really bad for him, you all saw it.]] It was a bell, a bell, and a bell was beating on you. You need to reshape this majority, reshape this majority, and justify the trust of the people. If not, you're not putting the government away, you're not putting the President away, then let's all back off and go. Others will come, they will be smarter, they will respond more wisely to the way they're being charged for Banking. Now, your honor, what we're proposing in these laws is three texts of the law, 3602, 3602-1 and 3649. And they're all supposed to be good, and they're all supposed to be good for the people. So 3602-1 proposes to import grain from July 1st to August 31st, or September 1st. 3602 proposes to import by the new year. 3649 — just until the new year. So look, 3602 is offering two million tons, 3602-1 is offering 380,000 tons. And today, when we were told by experts, there was no basis for any figures. So I think we should agree on 380,000 tons. This is the first time. It's different. In article 3, 3602 of the law, let the State Reserve buy it, not the DAC "Ukraine Bread". The DACOM "The Bread of Ukraine" is supposed to be doing the Sandman. Celebrity Mikhailovich, stop going on tour, stop doing business. There is no sea of work, the DAK Ukraine, where they must go out, and they have not yet sat. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, there are many questions, we are discussing two laws. I'm both booked. Give me half a minute now. I'm done. So, according to the second bill. We don't predict what kind of price regime, but we're taking the law to satisfy the regional needs of food grain. So let's do this in a special law, and let's just assume that it's not just going to be a zero bet. And let's write that there can't be more than 3 percent of the profit from this activity. And then it'll be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u127	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. Prepare Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u128	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Questions about the expansion around Ukraine’s provision of bread, bread - making products, crumbs, sugar, and so forth are not random. This is the logical result of destructive rural bourgeois policy. For about 10 years now, the agrarian sector of the economy will be plagued by the efforts of the poor reformers to break down what the winning work of several generations was created in Soviet times. Finally, for the first time since the pointless liquidation of the government's order for basic agricultural products, which had undermined the foundations of its own production, even the President realized that it was necessary to take the state reserve seriously, because a more solid country has, at least, an annual transitional supply of bread. So the first conclusion. It is necessary to restore the government’s demand for bread and other agricultural products. Next. If our government doesn't understand, and that's what we've talked about in person with Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovic, that Ukraine has always come out of the troubles of the earth in its history, then we will continue to be in similar trouble today. Because weather conditions are the main cause of the spread around the bread. Well, look what you've done with your mother's agrarian strategies. It's just that according to official data, about four and five thousand acres of grill are not sown at all, and actually two or three times as much. The weeds have become farmers in once fertile fields, destroyed by unique irrigation and drying nets. The earth can't see the organics. You can only read about science-based sums in special literature. They are not in practice because of the order of the wild market. And who is now in the best time of the winter sown? They sow until it freezes, and then they wonder what's gone. A negative impact on the status of the crops and the massive, groundless deforestation. I mean, land. so that the normal summer sunlight becomes dry for her. The second conclusion. It is time for the Cabinet of Ministers to move from words around the agrarian problem to concrete actions to restore damaged agriculture. And the third. The corresponding capitalist structures are capable of manipulating social consciousness for their profits. Last year, to make a living, they kept murmuring about the fact that bread as much as there was nowhere to go had costed the purchase price to a meager size, tricked the peasant as the entire nation of Ukraine. Today they are crying out that there is no bread and there will be no bread. There's been a frenzy of price hikes and a horse again. Thus, both the President and the Government and the Supreme Council are well used for these propaganda purposes. By the way, no one in our country can say with confidence whether or not there is bread in Ukraine today. The third conclusion is that in order to avoid a similar future, the government, on behalf of the State, needs to take the bread into its own hands, including external economic activity. In this regard, I believe that we must set a quota for the purchase of grain abroad this year. So the Prime Minister is talking about two million tons, tasking it with government structures. Because, with tax benefits, the middlemen will overwhelm Ukraine with bread and take it back into the ears of our peasants. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u129	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u130	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. The issues of life are not only discussed in Parliament today, but also in order, in public transport, the issue of “Where is the bread” is raised in the press, on television, on the posters of the pickets? People have lost confidence in tomorrow. And they no longer believe the promises of the officials. How can we believe the Governor of the area, who assured the media in the interview: “There is plenty of grain in the pond and in the shelters of the area and for sowing and for baking bread? The land shall not be without bread until a new harvest." Otherwise, there is a shortage of grain of 90,000 tons, and the area will not be without bread. And what kind of crops does the administration of the area look forward to if, in many areas, Kirovogradski, Komaneyevsky, Olshanski, Novomirgorodski and others, crops of early grains are completely reeked? Once again, there will be centrifuges on the paper! The Governor states: In order to preserve seeded elemental material, the area purchases flour at lower prices in the state reserve. Thus, previous prices for bread of mass consumption have been maintained in the region, but regrettably, he did not say that, since May, the prices of bread and bread-boiled products have been increased by 40 to 50 per cent. The flour of the upper class in the market today was 2 bracelets of 15 copies and was 1 bracelet of 05 copies; Greece was 5 bracelets of 20 copies, and a month ago was 1 bracelet of 80 copies; rice was 4 bracelets of 20 copies, and it was 2 bracelets of 10 copies; rice was now 2 bracelets of 40 copies, increased to 1 bracelet of 15 copies; pearls were 1 bracelet of 60 copies, and there were 70 copies; wheat was 3 bracelets of 20 copies, raised to 2 bracelets of 50 copies; sugar was 4 bracelets of 20 copies, and there were 2 bracelets of 15 copies. And that's not a price hike? What a supply of everything. in the field, and in the State where is it? Because the elevators are leaking, and the sparrows are walking there. Many heads of New York, Maloviskovsky, Novgorodkovsky, Onufreyev and others have carved Cherkasska, Kiev, Dnepropetrovsk oblast in search of seeds under the crop. The chapels have been collected for some farms, but they are no longer reliable, and the district’s management is reassuring that there is only 90,000 grain. Here's your arithmetic. Why is the chairman of the SPC. New Ukraine's Ogir Vladimir Ivanovic, who is destroyed by power, now has a grain supply and a cost of 50 kopjek 1 kg of bread. The people of this colossus are 100 per cent confident that hunger will not be recognized, thanks to the economics and care of the skilled leadership of Vladimir Ivanovich. Why, then, do we take such contempt for the experience of socialist production in the countryside? Why do we not introduce and disseminate the experience of such an economy? Dear representatives of the government, let us face the truth today, because a terrible catastrophe is coming, people in panic.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u131	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u132	I'm done. And there are grounds for that, because the protection of the State will not be given to the people. And you don't have to calm people down and pretend there's nothing to worry about. We must all work together to find ways out of the most difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u133	Thank you. Cloud, please. Prepare Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u134	Cloud, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Fatherland Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! The question that is being discussed in such a pervasive way today, just as we see it, has its results in imperfect laws that are well thought out. I'll ask you a question. Could it have been avoided? Sure. Let me remind you that even more than a month ago, our faction took the initiative to immediately hear the very question of the nation's food security. Indeed, this question relates to the national security problem of Ukraine. And I think I'd like to warn you not to adopt the bill that's on the table. There's a problem. But the harder it is, the more we need to think about it. And you can't accept these bills without information. And today, as usual, there are calls to avoid finding those who are to blame. We need to look for the guilty so that this will not be repeated indefinitely. And you can tell who took responsibility for the adjectives for falsifying state statistics. 40 million tons of grain was collected last year. So it's easy to establish. Whether it's a real figure, or if it's a fabricated figure. If it is fabricated, someone has to take criminal responsibility for it. At the district level and at the state level. I don't know what the hell the Attorney General's doing, but not those issues that concern national security. I'd like to emphasize one more. Two questions need to be divided. The question of price policy in the market, what our citizens are suffering from, and how to get back to not to rob them or starve them at all. And the second question. A perspective for our agro-industrial sector. And first of all, we need to think about it, but once again, we need to have information to provide the crop for the next year. To do this, we need to talk about the import of not even food grains, but primarily seeds. And that's what the government, the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and the State Reserves are supposed to do, and I think the National Bank needs to provide government credits for that, and that's what we need to do first. A number of other questions, which certainly need a very thorough analysis, I emphasize, are not enough. I think that maybe the government itself hasn't analyzed this information, and so we don't see any relevant bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u135	Eugene Kirilchuk, representative of the block of Yulia Timoshenko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u136	Yulia Tymoshenko, Fatherland Party, Kirilchuk. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Perhaps you can hear all the problems that have arisen in the fire today, you could call it one title, "The Consequences of Criminal Reforms in the Village, conducted by the President's Administration and his team today." What kind of fire do we think today is to put out some of the small fires that we have in Ukraine? We don't have a clear and clear way of getting out of the crisis of the most important sector of the economy -- the agrarian sector today. And I think Ivan Grigorovich that from the decision proposed by the Agrarian Party faction, two independent decisions should be made. They solve one part of the problem and the other part of the problem. In particular, today there is a question of the food market, so tomorrow there must be a decree to regulate the food crisis in Ukraine's food market with the involvement of both the law enforcement agencies and the prosecutor's office in order to limit, or somehow to subdue, speculatives who want to live by the principle of "whom war and whom they have a mother." The second decision should be to remove the agricultural sector of Ukraine from the crisis situation. Because of that, the bills that are being discussed today, and the three in a row, only one point is a general one, is the introduction of grain into Ukraine, which falls into every bill, only at different times and on different sizes. The rest must be clearly separated, both in one seed and in the other, and in order to cultivate the soil and sow the new crop properly. And the second part is even to say the sums of money that we need, who needs to do it, how do we do it, so that it's clear and clear and here without abuse, without taking advantage of it. Then there will be some benefit from the discussion we are having today. If we can't do it by tomorrow, we have to put it off for a week, but it's profoundly, wisely, with proposals to put it both in regulations and in amendments to laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, since time is running out, They're signed up. Basil Gabrieluk, you've signed up, please, if you'll excuse me. From place, please turn on the microphone, because we are running out of time, and I'm just asking everyone to express their point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u138	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the point is that in fact our team of MPs, the People's Authority, will be supporting Bill 3649 on first reading, taking into account the possible proposal to postpone the payment of the added value tax. As far as Bill 3602 is concerned, there are really a lot of questions here, and above all, about the filling of our budget. I don't really understand how we can first compensate exporters for VAT that we don't have today and so much talk about it, and now we want to create benefits. Also: The State budget will lack serious funds. And we know with you that the comments of the Scientific and Expert Office have been written that it is necessary to clearly comply with the changes in the laws that are relevant to the added value. There is no opinion of the Budget Committee. Where are the calculations, how much will the State budget receive from such benefits? Such decisions should not be taken hastily. The bill therefore needs to be further elaborated and amended in every way possible to ensure that it is adopted in the context of the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u139	Vladimir Cherniak's microphone, "Our Ukraine" faction. Then Melniczuk. And we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, in order to treat the disease, need to be influenced, not by the symptoms, but by the causes. The causes of the crisis with bread do not lie in grain shortages, not food grain deficits, but in the absence of an effective agrarian policy in Ukraine, in the absence of normal conditions for agricultural development, in the absence of an adequate price policy situation, in the absence of an effective export policy. Here are the reasons. If we do not influence them, problems will not be solved. The laws that we're discussing right now are polytechnics. They won't solve the problem, but they probably have to be taken. This is a kind of oxygen pillow that we give to agriculture. But we need to think about having an effective agrarian policy, together with the government, parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u141	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u142	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. We know the situation as co-chair of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the market in grain and bread of Ukraine, we today have clear figures of what happened last year and what happened this year. We demand from the government that the minister be named a clear figure of the gross grain harvest today. It can't be. We've been running a liberalization policy since 1999. Today, 33 percent of the area is in the population, in the economy of the population. Who can bypass these farms and give a clear figure? The situation is worse than we understand it today. And what is the picture of the situation today? We need 10 million tons, 2 million tons, 4 million tons of seeds, 6 million grains of food. These are the calculations that the government has today and that the Ministry of Agricultural Policy has. And that's why I think that the bills that are being tabled today, and we're looking at them today, we need to adopt them immediately. But so that the grain would not be imported again by those who exported it at no cost from the State. That's very principled today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u143	From the government, please, John Kirilenko, Vice Prime Minister. Let's squeeze and finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. The agreed position of the agrarian committee and government is like that. Tomorrow vote on the Bill of People's Deputies Kaletnik, Tsusko, Kalichenko, Lukashuk, except for paragraph 13 where we have molasses. In paragraph 12, instead of "until 1 January 2004" we set up "November 1, 2003" so that we could either make changes or extend the action, or end the import on November 1, 2003. Dear colleagues, this bill, if we accept it in this way, it unlocks and diversifys the sources of grain supply in Ukraine. Today, we are tied to one source — only Kazakhstan, with which is a free trade regime, and Russia, is also a free trade regime, but Russia itself is buying grain this year in Kazakhstan. You see, it will be our day to become attached to one source. It's just us throwing a loop at our necks. I'm asking you tomorrow morning, as proposed by national deputy Oleg Ivanovich Yuhnowski, we're going to legalize this document by morning, with these rights that are at this moment that we've agreed now with Mikola Janović, and tomorrow, colleagues, let's vote to unlock the process immediately. This law will be direct action. I want to tell the MPs the following. In eight regions of Ukraine, there is nothing to collect food grain. It's true what it is, and I agree with my colleague Melniczuk, who said the same thing. So these regions first need us to unlock the process. I'd like to support you tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u145	Mikola Janović Azarov, First Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u146	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I would like to take this opportunity to take a few positions of principle. First. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in a decade of tax relief, they have never solved a single problem anywhere. We provide the facilities for shipbuilding. Tell me, what problems have we solved in shipbuilding? We offer the benefits of litapre construction. What problems have we solved in the Litakobuwanni? I can give hundreds of examples when these benefits have only deformed economic structures. That is why the Government is working hard to abolish tax benefits and introduce a system of targeted direct subsidies. That's the first one. Second. I do not want us to be in a state of panic, which is deliberately provoked, to make rash decisions. First. If the problem is serious and acute, we would like to consider raising Ukraine's domestic debt by a billion grevens, which is $200 million. The situation in external financial markets is now extremely favourable. We have taken less than seven per cent for ten years of these two hundred million and have purchased $200 million into the public reserve. Grains. We would have removed this problem once and for all. We would have a reserve of what is necessary for the State to influence such serious situations. Moreover, we are prepared to go to redistribute financial resources within the budget, stressing, redistribution, not any additional income that is not available, but merely redistribution of financial resources within the limits of the budget and allocation of additional funds to be placed in reserves for the purchase of grain, first of all, from our own producer, first of all our peasants. In such volumes it is necessary to remove the severity of the problem. I said to the Conciliation Council of factions, "Let's figure out how much it takes to buy a lump into the state reserve to take down this problem once and for all." I don't see any problems here. Now, from the point of view of the law that I see will be voted tomorrow. First of all, there should be no restrictions in the law, no quotas. Any importer who wants to bring grain to Ukraine should take it. Second. We oppose the imposition of these benefits by 31 December. Why? First of all, because we don't think this year's crop is going to be so critical. Moreover, we hope that the situation, hopefully and we believe that the situation is not as critical as it is pictured, so we should not panic and should only make balanced, reasonable decisions. I would therefore suggest limiting this import duty benefit only until 1 November. We are ready to consider this issue in this room and extend this duty until, say, 31 December. But only when it's necessary. Now. Those who claim that there were no duties on the grain and therefore would not harm the State budget simply did not understand the planning of the State budget. The financial resource for imports is complex, it is determined and there will be simply a replacement of one commodity position to another. And if we take import duties on these commodities, when there's a substitute for grain, we don't take them, and the budget loses. That is why I speak so boldly that it is easier for us to resolve issues through the budget than through the provision of various budgetary benefits. Finally, the last thing I'd like to say. We really need to give clear guarantees: if we do, if we are going for any benefits, the price of the grain that will come, the price of the flour that will be distributed here must be clearly established, otherwise we will not win anyone's victory. These are all the qualities that must be laid down in this law, Vladimir Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u147	Yes, dear colleagues, we have finished our discussion. Or let us next consider, or let us continue to discuss. Dear National Deputies! So let's, well now, one minute, let's finish, then we'll take it from motive. So let's make sure that by tomorrow we have a bill that takes into account the positions that have been set out today, that we are agreed to tomorrow in the hall, MPs, not put before we have several projects, and then the votes will be distributed, split, and we won't have a search result. So I ask the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Agricultural Policy, as well as the participation of the Government, finance and banking to finalize and vote tomorrow to submit an agreed draft law, one draft law. And so, honourable colleagues, the consideration of draft legislation on the order of entry into Ukraine of food grain in 2003 and the draft law amending article seven of the Ukrainian Law on State regulations for imports of agricultural products have been completed. [[on the zero import duty rate]] Decisions will be made according to our arrangement. For reasons please, Red, Gladys and Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u148	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, what I hear from our faction, what I have heard from the First Vice-Prime Minister, is our faction fully supports Mr. Azarov's position, because I emphasize simply the points. We have to make a new law by morning that says, there's no need for benefits, there's no need to buy grain through the reserves, because there's no way we're going to force garlic, whether it's not an invasion or price control. Only that without any help from the State Reserve, as an instrument of government, as a quick aid to the country, will bring grain and make a free offer on the market without any intermediaries or authorized firms. At the same time, we will break the price. And the same thing, Ukrainian crops on open tenders, without any mediation of the Ministry of Agriculture, without any laws, and absolute access. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u149	Thank you. Mikhail Gladys, then Rudzkowski. Please, dear fellows, we have three more projects to consider today, which relate to the APC.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u150	Dear Mikolo Janovich, there is a very serious offer. Let's get this grain out of the woodshed, not just give it away, but release it through the stock markets, through tenders, and then we'll keep the price situation on the market. And if we work like we do today, it's serious in terms of abuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u151	Thank you. Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u152	Rudkowski, the Socialist Party. Mikolo Janovich, I'm asking you both, and those who will work on the law, still so that you can buy the grain through the stock market and throw it into the Ukrainian market through the stock market. Then you will break the price. Because there's grain, you know, but the price has gone up a lot higher than it needs. And go that way. Commercial firms will hold the price and you will do nothing because there is no powerful mechanism. We could even go to what you said: let the internal loan go up if you return it later, or send it to buy the fall for the insurance supply of these funds. And one more thing. Ivan Grigorovich, you've been speaking and you've added to your speech, when you say there's no grain in eight areas. You've been appointed vice-premier in order to have a harvest, not to be absent from the harvest. There'll be crops!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u153	Thank you. Mikola Janović, 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u154	I'm even smaller. Vladimir Mihajlovich, there is no budgetary committee in the protocol mandate that you listed. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I therefore ask that the draft bill be drafted by a budget committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u155	In fact, I called the matter something even after the procedure and the Rules had been followed, called the first regulatory committee, and then said something about an agar committee. Please, 30 seconds, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u156	Vladimir Yavorowski. I'm just making a proposal to this bill. I think we can improve the situation in the agro-industrial sector if we prolong the lysing of the one that was taken, let's say, by October next year. I ask you to include this in the bill and we'll try to discuss it. It's, there's no tampering, nothing, we're just going to support those people who took the lysing technique. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, the draft Act on Supplements to Article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services for public funds is under review. Reporter: Ukrainian National Deputy Catherine Timofievna Vashtuk and co-author of the bill Please very briefly, Catherine Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, it's a very short law, it's a single point of everything, and it's aimed at a single goal. We're talking today about the state reserve being a state chamber. To buy there is agricultural production, beginning with grain, there are stocks of meat, butter, and so forth. That's why not only does the state reserve buy products at budget costs, it's only for budget costs, and our army buys them for their own purposes, and so on. So I'm proposing that we supplement the law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at the expense of the state: if the object of the purchase is agricultural or domestic food products, only domestic farmers and food and manufacturing enterprises can participate in the tenders. The law takes effect from the day it was published. What caused this? Because when we check the price of the dairy oil, meat on the meat market and at what price the State Reserve or other services pay, there is a big difference. There the main mass is purchased by means of mediocre structures. And we're making government funds that hard. That's why we have to throw out a lot of participation in the tender of any intermediate structure. It's going to be a cost economy and more production for the amount that we're allocating, you can buy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u159	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. If there's a question, let's talk about it quickly for five minutes. On board, please, the names of the national MPs. Mikola Noshchenko, faction of the Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs. [[Ukraine’s Labour Force]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u160	160 constituency. Dear reporter! You only take one part of the government's purchase at the tendering, the competitive bidding. What place do you see in this matter of our resources? You know they're also buying into the state reserve on the tender. And the purpose of the tender is to lower the price. So, please tell me, what is the support of the Ukrainian manufacturer when he brings his product, and they want to lower the price by all means? Maybe let's settle for this unique instrument of the state to work to support our Ukrainian producer. And today we're going to write that change about what at the constant price set by the Cabinet of Ministers is in support. Please answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u161	Thank you. I'm absolutely in line if the price is fixed. But you're saying how much support it is that the price they make at the tender, at the competition, is either paid directly to the manufacturer, or to the food producer or to the processor, not to the middleman. If we include middle-sized structures there, it's an extra cost from our State budget, which goes straight to the middle-level structure. Whether they are better left to peasants or in the State Budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u162	Yes, Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u163	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Catherine Timofievna, please tell me that you have made changes to this law. Wouldn't you like to add to the end of your article: "or the processing industry," as the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority suggests, the words "which directly grow produce agricultural products and food products." It would totally rule out "slavics" and other firms that were somehow not called today, who bought the grain, and neither the Security Service nor the Customs Committee would tell us, they would sit in the mouth of the water.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u164	You can make a point, it's not going to interfere, it's going to reinforce the norm. Because this is the only goal: that those who produce and those who recycle directly rather than resell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u165	Vladimir Josephovich Matviev, a faction of Communists
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u166	That's my question. And joint ventures with foreign capital and national capital have the right to participate in these procurements or not? That's the first question. And the second question. Tell me, please tell me, who makes our domestic food, food, and is not a national producer at the same time, that is, a national producer? Well, call me one that's not a joint venture.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u167	You've obviously been reading the paragraph poorly. It clearly states that if the item of purchase is domestic food or food. If the joint venture and the control package are Ukrainian, they have the right to participate in the tender. But you're saying who isn't the manufacturer? Just a mediocre trading firm that bought it in a meat store, a dairy plant, and went out on a tender for participation. We're bringing that supplement that Carmazin says with pleasure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u168	Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u169	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Catherine Timofievna, you're an agrarian, and the agrarians here are very many, perhaps 90 percent of the deputies. We're worried about the village. Every bill we adopt is designed to support our own producer, right? I would certainly be willing to support this bill, and perhaps the faction will be determined. But please tell me when specifically the Ukrainian producer will have State support. You know that. When, in what year will this be? Because it's not this bill or another, you know, we accept, they don't work in our state, because the environment is something that destroys Ukraine's agrarian complex, and it doesn't support it. Any bill we adopt in this room to support our manufacturer, it doesn't work behind the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u170	That's right. There are problems, and it will be then, and you know it, too, because you're also an agrarian when we first see a peasant in different moments. We talk a lot today at a price. Are we talking about the price? In the market. Why can't we see the price of that uncle standing with the gardener with the plow? He's got a minimum price. As long as we, like all nations of the world, do not introduce the crop - produced product into its cost to make it profitable, the peasants will not be protected until then. And second moment. We should keep in mind that the benefits can be eliminated as called for by Mikola Janovich, but in the city we have to anticipate a serious amount of money that would work specifically for the peasant. Only then will we achieve two goals: support the peasant and keep the price level stable. Because we can't afford to grow our citizens' income quickly. Or increase the standard of living of the people so that they can pay any price.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u171	Vladimir Mikolaiovich Yeshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u172	Dear reporter! I'm talking to you. Article 6 is a condition for the protection of the domestic market. And we're only raising that question today. Why, without your committee's knowledge, you're protecting a domestic manufacturer today, and we know that in the bird-reprocessing industry, and we're also saying here from the rostrum that we're going to protect, but we're taking a crust from America. Yeah? Won't it be if we write that down, I support Karmazin, he's right, he's so busy that we can do that businesses that are also open in Ukraine, and they represent as the subsidiaries of Western firms, they're going to be going around our manufacturer today, and they're also going to take part in tenders, like they did in the tendering of FILIPS and other computer technologies?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u173	I completely agree. By the end of our reading, we're going to write this rule of the Executive Board. Just what does this law do? When we discovered this situation, we looked for a way. There is no limit to perfection. And it is very good that we can discuss and improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u174	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. From the committee, I'm sorry, Demjochin. Who's gonna be on the committee then? From the Committee on Economic Policy. And from the financial point of view, you can participate in the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u175	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! The Committee considered the bill at its meeting and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council adopt the bill on first reading as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office believes that the draft can also be adopted on first reading as a basis. The bill is intended to support the domestic producer. And we ask for your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u176	Thank you, Vladimir Anatolyevich, please sit down. Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Let's move on to the discussion. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u177	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The bill, which was reported by Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk today, is certainly vital. I'm just paying attention to something else. What's once again missing is once again we're taking a separate question into consideration as we see it for ourselves. So here today, in this law, in order for us to support our own manufacturer, we have to look at this law in conjunction with the law that was now under consideration -- the import of grain. And I want to remind you that today I heard a normal speech by Mikola Janovich Azarov, who said that the term should be limited, the price should be set, is what I suggested. And now I want to ask, is there a government forecast, if we bring in the grain now, how does that affect the price of the produce that the peasants are going to get? How will this affect you? And why do we not determine today how much we need to import this grain? That's before you have to make a decision tonight. And I emphasize that this project, Vladimir Mikhailovich, was handed over to us today, which we are currently discussing, at 11 and 10 minutes. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you, believe me, I'm going to analyze all the bills and record them when they're submitted when we're given an expert opinion. Can we work like this in a civilized parliament? Probably not in a civilized one. As for the article, to really protect Ukrainian producers, I propose to form it in this way: "If the object of the purchase is agricultural or domestic food products, only domestic farmers and food or manufacturing enterprises that directly grow produce agricultural products and food products can participate in the tenders." That's where you put the dot. That's when we're going to support not the middlemen, but the producers. That's the decision I'm asking you to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the discussion. Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, prepare to be Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies, distinguished voters! You heard about this bill today, mutually exclusive proposals. In fact, the bill was received literally before the discussion. I have a question: We can accept it tomorrow, especially since there are only 30 percent of those deputies present today who will vote tomorrow. I propose that this bill until it is discussed on the budget committee until it is discussed on the profiles and other committees, it needs to be voted on, at least for a week, that this bill actually has a point, and was directed to where the social situation today requires, and was professional, and not imposed at any time like a bunch of hay. Because of this, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask that the Cabinet of Ministers generalize these proposals, which are, come up with proposals for those committees that I have called, and only then can we accept them both on a basis, and generally possible immediately. Because tomorrow, when it's introduced, I'm afraid, or something that's not even the same as the law will be on the surface, and it won't produce any results. You see, one proposition and a Kabmin is that I only buy grain to pass through the State Reserve, and the law says, "Let the middlemen go." Because of that, you see, a mutually exclusive situation. I think the time for this week is enough, and the situation is still going to suffer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u180	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u181	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! I still want to kick some ass. Now, we're always going around the problem, I understand, because it's hot and painful and thirsty, and yet what causes it have given birth. I've already said something about it in the reply, but I want to put an emphasis on it. The reason is that there is no grain market in Ukraine, no grain market. Both parliament and government failed to accomplish their mission and did not create a grain market. If we had a grain market, the situation now would not have arisen. And even if it did, the market has mechanisms to solve this problem. That's the first one. And the second. We're dealing with a specific area -- agriculture, where there's bound to be government regulation. Therefore, the second main reason is that market mechanisms and regulatory mechanisms do not interact, and the necessary mechanisms of government regulation are not created. In particular, price regulation. If we take the general reason, the absence of an effective, adequate situation of agrarian politics in Ukraine, we have to admit that. And there's also the guilt of both Parliament and the guilt of the government, and we need to work on that. But there is a problem, really, there is a fire, there is to be put out, and I understand what is being done. But the main thing is, if you agree to and adopt these laws, the main thing is that grain is needed through the State Reserve. And we need to implement it through the stock market, through tenders. The market produces price, then agreements are concluded, future agreements, and then it is implemented normally. If we buy grain even because of these benefits, but there will be no such mechanisms, we will not overturn the price of bread, and we will only suffer losses for the budget, including, and the question will not be solved. I ask the government: Why didn't the government buy grain at the State Reserve when the grain was cheap in Ukraine last year? And now we have a problem! It was obvious that this was to be done. Why did the government allow the theft of grain in Ukraine, the fraud of the peasants who had loaded their wallets, bank accounts, and we have a problem?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u182	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u183	If we were to work adequately, we would not have this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u184	Thank you. Yes, the government, please, briefly. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor Catherine Timothy, I'd like to remind you. That the rule was in effect until 16 January of the current year, until the Supreme Council amended the law on state-owned purchases. This standard worked. That's the first one. The other one. Statistics show that today virtually all tenders win. Katerina Timofievna, I ask you to pay attention, the country's agricultural producers are winning. So I agree with you, let's take a look at this rule together and make a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u185	Mikola Noshchenko, if you please, the faction of the Party "Industry and Entrepreneurs" and "Urrigible Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u186	160th constituency. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Today, it is virtually impossible to sell grain on land resources without arrangements. So I propose that the following amendments be made to this bill: "The purchase by the State of agricultural production of the holding is done in volumes and at prices set by the Cabinet of Ministers." Because tendering in this case is not for the benefit of the manufacturer. Please, out of voice and I will support tomorrow with the votes of the entire faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the committee, once again, to work with the government on this project so that tomorrow we can make a decision, all the more so that there are very good observations here and there are observations by the General Legal Office, which also needs to be taken into account, and this is obviously taken into account. Taking into account this consideration of the draft Act on the Complementation of Article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Purchase of Goods, Works and Services at State Costs has been completed. We'll make a decision tomorrow. A draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on regulating the activities of special free economic zones and in areas of development for bird meat is being announced for consideration. Rapporteur, Ukrainian National Deputy, Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna I think it would be a good idea if you immediately suggested that you cancel the bird, not the quotas that would go back there and make money on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u188	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I agree with you absolutely, and you remember that by accepting the State Budget as a separate article, we wrote this rule: "Group 1-24 will not be smuggled into Ukraine without care." But the trouble is that we've adopted a number of bills that have given special investment regimes in priority areas. And we've adopted and created a lot of these laws. And because of the courts, despite the fact that we have such a standard, there is an irregular introduction of bird meat through the courts in huge numbers in Ukraine. And by doing so, we will support the opportunity to develop our own avianism. I want to give the information to the room a follow-up report. Over the past three years, the production of chicken meat in Ukraine has increased severalfold, with nearly 200,000 tons of meat coming out of 40,000 tons this year. And I think two years from now, our birds will be very competitive. Today, however, civil economic zones through the courts, protecting the laws or regulations that have been passed in this room, have produced a great deal of chicken. What kind of work did we do? We've gathered representatives of all the free economic zones and all the producers of Ukrainian bird products at the initiative of Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovovich, we've been working on several. Not the days, but, well, they've been working all day. We looked at our bird factories, and we were convinced that we could do it now. Let's limit the quantity. And in agreement with our manufacturers, and with those free zones, we seem to have found the only way out today: we're setting an import quota that's going to be reduced in accordance with the rules of our law for three years. So far, we're proposing a quota of 70,000. Last year more than 300,000 were imported, about 400,000 tons. 70 grand. By the following year, according to these laws, in several free economic zones, these standards are already ending, some 50,000 or so. And the last, third year will be final. If it's your good will, we've found the only civilized way out of this situation by setting a quota that limits imports that are not controlled in Ukraine. This is the proposal to pass this quota law in free economic zones.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u189	The offer is understood. The question is, is it not, or is it understandable? Okay, let's sign up. It's okay, it's civilized, let's sign up. Five minutes. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Wow, a lot. Sergey Slubenko, non-fractional, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u190	Sergey Slabenko, Volinsk region Katerina Timofievna, I have a question for you. So today, joint ventures have developed their business plans. They have determined how much they would have to import imported raw material into Ukraine’s customs territory. At the same time, you have just claimed that in the courts of enterprises, they share the same interests when they are confined to transportation. Then why don't you explain, if you set quotas, and the company will think that this, the size of the quota that belongs to it, is it economically useless or unfavourable, or will it not go to court tomorrow, stand up for its same rights and import the same product? So I'd like to understand, this bill, it's real or we're doing, let's say, an obstacle to some particular enterprise, and those who are stronger, stronger, stronger, more likely to go to trial and defend their rights there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u191	Thank you for asking. It's such a good question. No, this bill is accepted as a compromise. And it was attended by all the free economic zones, including Novovolinska. And they also have their quota here, it's like an agreement between domestic and free economic zones. To keep them from judging, he arranged for them to develop their own avianism.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u192	Please, Petrenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u193	Katerina Timofeevna, you're talking about quotas. What are we not talking about prices? The thing is, it's all about comparison. They'll take us on the side if they have it more expensive than we have it, so we'll get them to take ours. What's more, it's our fresh one, and so on. Recently, prices for meat have increased about a few times and so on. That's why it's hard to buy. That's why. We're talking about the market. Let's go to the market and get some cheap stuff. It is not possible to pay attention only to quotas, but also to include market levers. How do you view this question, and what should you do next?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u194	I get it. We're going to be able to adjust the situation so that we have products sold at affordable prices in one case when this product is domestic enough. Therefore, the Ukrainian manufacturer must be protected. If we don't protect him, we'll pay the import on three roads. This law restricts the import of a foreigner by establishing a quota so that the domestic one can develop more quickly. And the second thing I have to do is what I said. Before that, we have to feed Ukrainian meat for the peasant, and it will be cheaper in the market. You know that today a peasant gets a bracelet for his meat with a small one, you know. And you know, there's still no price in the store, and prices are much higher, because there's no regulation by the Ministry of Economics of the Income of All Agrarians. And we have this situation. Or we need to include everything. And to do that, you have to drug a peasant.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u195	Sergey Sobolev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u196	Sobolev, Reform and Order Party, Our Ukraine. Katerina Timofievna, don't you think we're fighting instead of dealing with a key problem, with some consequences, and selling off or setting quotas for individual appointments or groups? Parliamentary hearings took place. Everyone has already found out in Ukraine, and I don't think there's any person who doesn't understand that free economic zones aren't created to create extra jobs to import new advanced technologies, but they're designed entirely for another. And now we're going to try instead of solving the key issue, solving the free economic zone law -- remove it, and because of quotas, just one little name. Don't you think that's how we move in a completely different direction? Because I remind you, in 1996 Parliament had the courage to ban the administration of the President's Administration, the Supreme Council and the Cabinet from carrying the same crumbs and bananas because of the decision they had forbidden. Don't you think that we're actually creating special conditions for individual groups instead of solving the key issue of free economic zones? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u197	I thank you very much, and I agree with you absolutely. But the whole point is that we haven't been able to vote on this norm in the room to repeal the laws in all free economic zones. Propose, vote. There will be no need for this law. But today there is such a need. And it's not just the chicken producers in Ukraine, it's also the ones who produce beef and pork. Because these chicken legs are carried. And everything else to make sausage. And it's cheaper, of course it's cheaper, because meat comes at low prices, because it's not the best quality meat. We found the moment this way. Seeking compromise between representatives of free economic zones and farmers. If we vote on a radical law, this law will simply eliminate the need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u198	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. Time's up, please sit down. Vladimir Demöhochin, from the Committee on Economic Policy. You must now, Mikolo Eutychyevich, I respect you even more than I respect you, but you just don't get to push the button very quickly. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u199	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! The Committee considered the draft law at its meeting. The Chief Research and Expert Office believes that Bill 3375 should be finalized and considered at the same time as draft Law 2569. The bill is currently under consideration in the Supreme Council, a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine and introducing special investment regimes in areas of priority development. [[on the creation and functioning of special free economic zones]] It received 4.04 this year. The Committee decided to recommend the adoption of the bill on first reading as a basis and in preparation for second reading to finalize and consider at the same time as Bill 2569. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u200	Sergei Weakka has a personal question to ask you, so one minute. Sergei Slabenko. Vladimir Anatoliyovich, now and in Yavorowski. And Carmazin's gonna do the show, he's gonna tell us everything. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u201	I'm sorry. I have a question. I understand one thing, though, you see this bill, you have to attach it to another bill and look at it together. But there is one question. Now we've just heard about the quota, I want to understand who these quotas will then be distributed among the subjects of entrepreneurship, especially in what proportions it will distribute. Or are we once again giving up this Cabinet of Ministers, who has worked with these enterprises through the Ministry of Economics and will work with new inspiration, looking for opportunities to limit their entrepreneurial activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u202	Thank you for asking. This is, of course, the central issue of this bill is quotas. But before I answer it, I'd like to say that maybe I didn't make it clear, or maybe you didn't listen very carefully. We do not propose to unite them, but to consider them together so that there is a common understanding of the situation of special free economic zones. The same view is maintained by the Scientific and Expert Office. With regard to quotas. I had already been addressed by Catherine Timofeevna, who said that it would be assumed that in three years it would be as if those quotas were reduced. Of course, quotas are always subject to abuse. And we, on the committee when we considered, disagree that this quota should be distributed by a specific person, because clearly it would be abuse. On second reading, I think it is necessary to provide for a mechanism in preparation to eliminate this abuse. Speaking of which, let's stop the bird's meat at all. But it's kind of radical, very revolutionary. But you know, during the revolution, there's always a lot of head flying. Businesses work. And we were specifically in Donetsk, looking at businesses. Truth be told, we're where sausages do, why we didn't come in. Maybe the clothes weren't right. Anyway, there's jobs, there's production. Another is to redirect them to the raw materials of a domestic producer. This must be the joint work of the respective Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u203	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u204	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky oblasts, Lvivščina, "Our Ukraine". Dear colleague Demyokhin! In my district, and you were, there's a free economic zone, and I can say with confidence that it's just a black hole in the economy of Ukraine. It's my very clear conclusion, there's no new jobs, there's no jobs, if there are, so scarce. Instead of investing, it's going to be old technology and all that. I have a question like that. You said very interestingly. I'm afraid the revolution is about to blow my head off. In this case, thanks to God, smoking heads are going to fly, which is not bad. Catherine said there's a need for that. I'd like to ask you, colleague, maybe you know the name of this need. If you know, please tell me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u205	Thank you, Vladimir Alexandrovich. I don't know this man or who needs it. But you know my position personally, and the committee -- we do support those special economic zones that have an impact. And you know how we did in Yavoriv, and our support. Indeed, for example, the Yavoriv zone by adopting, so to speak, the law, the decree, it has given effect, but I want you to note that it has had an effect, including because there is Stepan Ivanovich. And you know that very well, Lukashin. Well, he's still there. If we had as many people as possible who had God’s spark in their eyes, who was doing his job responsibly, we would probably have a greater economic impact, job creation, and not smuggling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u206	Mikhail Dobkin, please. Please, Michael Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u207	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I have a question for Vladimir Anatolevich. I am referring to those who have a positive assessment of the activities of the areas where the special economic regime has been introduced, at least in the case of the Kharkiv region, the Donetsk region, where there are positive developments, where indeed new jobs are being created. But that's the question. The Act lists those special investment zones where the law is proposed to be implemented. And if, in the Donetsk region, I understand, there are a number of enterprises that process this kind of raw materials and produce further products. Let's say that this list makes a special economic zone of tourist-recreational resort-polys Truscavets? Let's move on. This is, let's say, the economic zone of Port Crimea. However, special investment activities were designed for certain narrow types of the economy. Why extend the law to them, so it is not clear what purpose they should be allowed to import the goods? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u208	Thank you. Well, that's one of the comments that was actually in the discussion. But what I want to notice is that one enterprise in one special economic zone in Donetsk, which imports this very bird's meat, it's that "bed of tar in a barrel of honey." Therefore, in preparing the bill further, it is precisely those enterprises that are actually using imported raw materials to produce meat and not to touch the rest of the zones that I agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u209	Thank you. It's a great pity, dear fellows, five minutes' time's up. Let's move on to the discussion of Yuri Carmazin, please come to the rostrum. Put on the sign the name of the national deputies who have been registered. Ten minutes to talk to us. We need to consider another project to fulfill our commitments to agrarianism.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u210	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to ask you a question, but you won't let me ask you a question. Well, then I'll ask questions so rhetorically in the air. And I'm going to answer it myself. What, then, is the purpose of this Law? This Law is needed in order to legitimize half the amounts that all oligarchic clans that import bird meat can overwhelm. This is the compromise Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk made with herself and with her conscience. Catherine Timothy, I respect you so much that I don't think you should have made that compromise. There can be no compromise with those who gain their state! It can't be! Do you understand?Oh, my God! That's why I wanted to ask the representative of Vladimir Anatoliovich Demjochina. I wanted to ask you what economically, I emphasize, the economically sound changes to the Law on Amendments to Certain Laws on Taxation of Taxation of Taxation and Some Other Goods, where the benefits of spreading the meat of birds are returned when imported into special economic zones within 70,000 tons per year. 70,000 tons, Your Honor Catherine Timofievna, is 70 million chickens if they weigh 1 kilogram. 70, even a little bit more, right? So, see if this affects the reduction of budget revenues. And this bill affects the reduction of budget revenues. As a result, in accordance with Article 27 of the Budget Code, it may become effective no later than 1 January 2004. And before they do, or they change the Prime Minister, and the roof changes in those areas to which the meat is taken. The other one. I don't understand how state administrations will watch and the government will share. Dear Catherine Timothy, I know you are. And thank you for passing the previous law on behalf of the people of Ukraine. But this law is harmful, it cannot be adopted. And that's why I think we should put a dot on that. Thank you. In the name of the salvation of that village that everyone is mourning.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u211	Yes, is Michael Dobkin there? Please, Michael Dobkin. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u212	Respectable People's Deputies. Mikhail Dobkin, town of Harikov, 174th constituency. Dear Catherine Timofevna, I will support this bill because it allows order in this sector of our economy and, on the one hand, not to violate the commitments made to enterprises entering free economic zones and, on the other hand, to actually support the Ukrainian farmer. But there are a few comments that I want both the Committee and the drafters of the bill to take into account. First, what I said. It is necessary to make clear the specific areas where the enterprises that will be subject to this law are located. In order to prevent this problem from being solved by the People's Demehin People's Demehin. That's the first one. And the second. I don't exactly agree or, let's say, I see another allocation mechanism. It is the following. Every enterprise that starts working in this form of economy in the market is still in the process of preparing a project to be accepted into the free economic zone and to be able to work is counting its business 5-6 years ahead. Thus, each enterprise, when it reads its business, should have given justification that if they were allowed to import grain free of charge, within which time they would be able to satisfy themselves, let us say, with material resources and prepare themselves, and move smoothly on our raw materials. So when you distribute here, it's important to take into account. Of course, any regional administration or council whose level of competence it refers to, let's say, the harmonization of quotas, they'll say everything: we have to set up 70,000 tonnes of land either in Harikov or in Donetsk or in another area. It should be borne in mind that, above all, the quota should be given to those enterprises that have recently started working in the market. Those enterprises that have already worked for 2-3 years and have been able to move on to domestic raw materials should receive less quota data. I therefore request that this comment be taken into account and, if possible, when the question is put to the vote, that we take it into account. Again, I would like to draw your attention to the very need to take a very careful look at the list of free economic zones that may fall within the scope of this law. In order to prevent those who really need to work with this product from losing their raw materials, and those who need it as just an extra speculation to resell others will get the raw materials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u213	Vladimir Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u214	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the subject of the law is the quota for the introduction of bird meat into free economic zones. Katerina Timofievna comes out of the status quo and the situation is what she's trying to do by putting out forest fires, if there's a problem, you have to respond to it and you have to put out the fire. The bill is designed to protect a domestic producer. I'd still like to make a statement in terms of terminology and, in fact, make a note. Let's never talk about protecting a domestic manufacturer again. Let's talk about creating normal conditions for his work. We don't have to protect him, he'll protect himself if we don't interfere with him if we create normal conditions. When we have a situation where there's a huge gap between the purchase price for meat and the retail price in the store, and when all the profits actually go not to the farmer, it goes to the processor and the broker of trade, that's where the problem is, that's where they say the dog is buried. And that's where we have to change that. But this is a subject of a separate conversation, it goes beyond this bill, but I would like to emphasize that we need to create normal conditions. By the way, when you talked in the previous bill about giving grants instead of benefits, I also support this proposal, but before you give grants from the budget, you have to figure out what conditions and who is robbing a peasant. Because we're going to be giving grants through the budget, and they're going to rob him again. Therefore, it is only in a relationship that the problem can be solved. One second. Free economic zones. That's a really painful point. In many ways, they have become black holes in our economy, although the idea of free economic zones is that they are economic growth points. And it's not that there should be meat from abroad, it's that investment should go there. Free economic zones around the world are being created to attract investment, create new jobs, give impetus to production. They don't play these roles. We need to figure out the free economic zones. And in particular, in this law, what free zones are the quotas. This, by the way, will be one of the important issues that will have to be addressed in practice. And finally, the main question, the pain point in the bill is the quota allocation mechanism. Quoting and licensing is always an abuse. So we need to think about how to make this impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u215	Leonid Chernewicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u216	Honourable Presidency, distinguished people's deputies! Leonid Chernicki, Darnicke constituency, Christian Liberal Party. I want to tell you who's listening to us from voters, that free economic zones are stealing from pensioners, from ordinary people who are counting on the help of the State, billions of dollars a year. And I think two thirds of our economy is going through them. And they're perfectly formed by oligarchic groups. And that's terrible, and that's all! If I could somehow influence that in this room, I think whoever has a conscience would have eliminated them not only as intermediaries in the sale of chicken crumbs. It's a little thing. They're going through all the banking operations and all the production, apparently, and all the rest. In fact, I had to contact the village manager who has registered a free economic zone with a person who can't connect two words, but who doesn't even know that billions of dollars are passing through his area, one of the oligarchic groups that is close to power. Horrible! And if the Parliament does not get rid of this ghastly phenomenon, of course, the President will have the right to take it and to disperse it. Because it's pure theft, but at the level of those figures, billions. I would like to tell you more about the respectable voters, if anyone hears that I am one of the authors of a large number of bills, including important ones that have not been considered by the Supreme Council and are constantly sabotaged and six months later, have not even been put to discussion since November of last year. I'm saying that today we have to eliminate the VAT that pensioners and poor people pay in clinics, no, in pharmacies, shops and other things. I'm talking. on the law on advertising to eliminate tobacco advertising, and we are watching it bloom contrary to the committee led by Mr. Tomenko. I'm talking about a law on pornography that I can't break through the Supreme Council, but which seems to have been adopted, but today I'm going to have to discuss it on the committee and I'm not sure it's going to come before the vote, and I'm going to have a serious discussion. And many other laws. This law is therefore useful. Thank God he's been missed by a bunch of squires, that's all. They need to be eliminated. And all those in these zones must be condemned.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u217	Thank you. Leonid Mikhailovich, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u218	Condemn everyone's public opinion and plant it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u219	Microphone. Please, the government. The position of the government in this direction, of this bill. You've taken your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u220	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! We are fully aware of the real problem of importing into free economic zones of imported products, including bird meat. I want to inform you that on June 18, this bill was discussed at the First Deputy Prime Minister's meeting. And it was decided not to support the bill in view of the fact that it actually restores the benefits of those who were cancelled on December 24. At the same time, however, a number of ministries and departments were commissioned to prepare a mechanism for importing bird meat into Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u221	Since a review of the draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislation on regulating activities in special free economic zones and in areas of priority for meat, the bird has been completed. The decision will be made in the light of the discussion. But we've come out of what we're doing by the committees, by the government, and by the bills. Now it turned out again that we had not agreed on anything. For this reason, Olga Hinzburg, with a motive, please. Hinsburg microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u222	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I just wanted a little earlier before the government spoke. But I have this kind of incomprehensible attitude toward all of this. In our time, when we were discussing electronic disks, the law was raised in the country, and we had a question about what are we bringing these chicken crusts into Ukraine. And the veterinary services began to talk about the quality of these crusts, not about quotas, but about quality. And they said they were very harmful to our people. And they said they had food there, and there's penicillin in the meat. So now, has something changed as these doves? Is it only now that we have understood the quality of our Ukrainian products and why we cannot so afford to eat our people? I'd like the government to be able to beat me up about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u223	Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Added Value Tax for Rural Social Infrastructure Objects is under review. Rapporteur, Ukrainian National Deputy, Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna She is also a coauthor of this bill. Is Vasil Petrovich Cuzko there? Thank you. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u224	Before I report the bill, I want to go to the Ministry of Economics. Dear colleagues, you remember the meeting with the President, all the agricultural producers were present, and we had a claim that the Ministry of Economics would allow America and sign contracts for 90,000 tons and so on. That's the reaction. Dear colleagues, if we don't adopt this law, we have only one thing left to do -- to reverse the laws we passed with you. Perhaps Honorable MP Carmazin is speaking 20 times today for how we can decide, but we have adopted these laws, and no one has accepted us. And if we don't accept the limit, we're going to have the same situation. It'll take 300-400 grand. Tonne, that's what I'm convinced. In the second reading, we'll take into account the quota proposals. Thank you. Regarding changes to the value added tax law. This bill was drafted along with Deputy Assadchev and Slavuta. Dear colleagues, we have studied the situation in very detail. You know that the government's proposals are to cancel the taxes on the added value for all producers, including peasants. What difference does it make to all producers and to the value added tax for peasants? All the difference is that in the added-value tax law, the special regime for the village is such a rule that this tax acts as a subsidy to the price. This 20 percent remains as a subsidy to the price of produce, which is very cheap for a peasant. Therefore, we propose: first, to further introduce a rule that exempts the tax from the added cost of transferring sociocultural objects to the balance of rural councils. You can imagine a norm that you wouldn't call nonsence. Once a collective farm built a house of culture, gas, water, and other sociocultural objects. Today, there is no collective farming, there are farmers on its base. These objects need to be placed on the balance of the commongosp or simply a village council. To do that, it's a collective farm. which is barely in the belly or which is not at all to pay another 20 percent of the value added tax. It's not going to any door. That's the first change. And all the other changes -- the second and the third shift -- predicts that we're leaving in the same mode as we were doing the value added app, and it's working on animal products, like the milk and meat price subsidy, we're using plant products to buy technology, we're doing fines, we're doing protections, we're building on individual accounts. And the last. We proposed another rule. Freed from taxing imports into customs territory of Ukraine by domestic farmers of tribal genetic resources of farm animals. Both the budget committee and Assadchev supported us. I'll just give you one digit: in the last year, only 200 calves were imported. You know what it's like not to renew the gene pool. We're going to get very sad results in a short time: paying a very expensive price, and it's rarely possible for people to bring them in. An additional tax will increase this price, and we simply will not import it. And the last. When we talk to the government about what we keep this tax, we say the following. The government tells us that we're going to introduce the grant mechanism -- we agree. This amount of tax for peasants is measured at a billion eight hundred to two billion dollars a year. If this amount as a village grant is set in the budget, the last item we'll write down is that we're putting an end to that law if the corresponding amount is set in the 2004 State Budget. Why should we accept it? Because this standard is in force today, only until January 1, 2004. We'll cancel the benefits if there's a rule in the budget that says, "In the morning money is in the evening chair." Otherwise, if we stop it and we don't get anything in the budget, the village will lose two billion dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u225	Please sign up for the questions. Light up, please. Vladimir Leschchenko. The next Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u226	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Catherine Timofievna, I support the bill as a whole. But I want to ask you how the author of the project is next. In 1995, the President’s decree virtually eliminated collective enterprises. At present, most of the population does not have the right-holders of these collective enterprises. And even those new formations are not legal successors either. Please tell me, who today have these looted, broken social sites? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u227	Absolutely agree with you. Where they didn't write, they didn't put together where they were in such a hurry to do things without thinking about the consequences, and legally speaking, there are such problems that they're just like nocturnal. Fact. And in those farms that survived, including where I owned, we kept everything. [[I know a lot about such farms.]] Today we can't put it on balance because we have to pay a large sum. And such objects today, my dear colleague, I thank you for asking, you know, the amount: 1 billion 200 million. So their succession and the rule of law should be written out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u228	Sergey Matvienkov, European Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u229	Thank you. Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Ekaterina Timofevna, I have two questions. First part. What you're saying about transferring objects to the village's VAT-free balance sheet. I think that this is not just a village problem, it is a problem of many industrial enterprises, it is a problem that needs to be addressed in the complex, rather than taking out the things that, let's say, could be precisely solved for the village under the auspices that today's difficult problem has arisen in the food market. This time. Second moment, VAT. Let's be honest and honest. If all the villagers had the benefits that we had taken for six years and had not reached the peasants. They would probably be the richest people in Europe, apparently. Two billion grevens of peasants should. Will the villagers get this benefit or not? For whom do we make this VAT today? Let's give it to whoever's making this product. Which is why we're breaking this VAT scheme. Or let's cancel VAT as a law, like that, and move from a turnover tax to a real estate, or then create conditions that reached the manufacturer, not the traders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u230	Thank you, dear colleague. I absolutely agree with you on the first question. If there is such a problem in industrial enterprises, let's add it to the second reading. And what it is, no one will deny it in this room, in the transfer of sociocultural objects. The second question. You're telling me if she's coming. It's the only law, the only benefit that manufacturers use directly, it doesn't share. You see, I sold milk to the dairy today, and the value added tax the milk factory gives me as a subsidy to the price. That's how this law works. This is the only norm that divides directly between agricultural producers. Although I agree with you, I fully agree that it is better to have the standards of direct subsidies for peasants. Next week, I'm going to report on a law that provides for agrarian production. But my respectable colleague Matvienkov, if you're talking about the very enormous benefits of the village, I'll tell you that there's no village benefits at all. There are two taxes that we have as a benefit, and all the rest of us are in some of the pieces here from the rostrum, regardless of the factions, standing and apologizing. Just so you know, in America today, subsidies to peasants are measured at $56 billion. Today, the grant in France is about 12 billion euros. In Poland, which is equal to Western Ukraine with the Žitomir region, it is about 5 billion. Well, what are we talking about Ukraine? Where, what is 2 billion dollars for our hectares and 16 million farmers? They're crumbs and laughter. It's not a big factory with benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u231	Vasil Gavriluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u232	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd like to give the brother-in-law Leonid Borisovich a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u233	Leonid Svatkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u234	Thank you. Swatkov, People's Landing faction. Katerina Timofievno, you can agree with the first paragraph, with the second paragraph of this law, but you can't agree with it, and today you can adopt the third paragraph of this law, when we propose not to tax the tax scheme again. The donor scheme leads to a budget failure. Only at the expense of the third point of the daily processing of sugar beet, the sunflower of another product can lose more than 2 billion. How can such a law be adopted? At the same time, there will be nothing to feed the village at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u235	Thank you for asking. I've been explaining. We just didn't use the wording very well. It goes on to say, "From its own raw materials." I agree, until the second reading, we're going to correct that wording. What's more, as you know, one of the co-authors of the bill is Assadchev, he's not going to miss anything that's damaging the state budget of Ukraine. It is a person who is devoted to the budget and to an honest relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u236	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. Time's up. Please have a seat. Vasil Petrovich Cuzko, the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, will give us a report on the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u237	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Banking supported the Bill of Law. I'm not gonna waste any time on that. The only thing I'll tell you is that our committee supports the line that VAT should not have any benefits. But because we do not have a direct grant system today, indeed, in the village, and today we have this weather, we have supported this bill in first reading, and together with the author we have achieved that record that if the budget provides for direct grant money and the mechanism we will vote in the room, here, the law will be adopted, that rule will not work. I mean, before 1 January, we have that chance. Therefore, the Committee's proposal to support the Committee's first reading, but in view of what the Swatkov colleague has said and so on, the Committee will finalize and indeed take these points into account. Thank you. I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u238	Dear colleagues! Is there a question for our colleague? None. Let's move on to the discussion. On the board, please explain who signed up for the discussion. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Anatoly Frost. I propose and ask you to support the proposal to continue for 15 minutes and complete the consideration of this bill. Is there no objection? Thank you. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u239	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! The laws proposed by Catherine Vaschuk, Slate’s national deputies, and Assad’s drafts would certainly not be necessary in a civilized world. But today our country needs them. The law provides for a settlement of the issue of the free transfer of social infrastructure objects to municipal property. It is proposed not to include tax on added-value transactions from free transfer to utility property of housing and other social infrastructure objects. It is further proposed that special regimes be maintained until 31 December 2009 in taxes on the added value of individual categories of agricultural producers. And it is also proposed to exempt the taxation of the import operation, the transfer to the customs territory of Ukraine by agricultural farmers of agricultural animals. Dear National Deputies! Think about what's going on! Our cow gives us 2,000. I'm milk. We move the feed, we move the feed. Instead of having a cow that's going to give 10-15, it's going to be 20 grand. We can't take her. In this way, we tie ourselves to a loop on our neck. So let the peasants do it! This law should be adopted tomorrow, in the first and second readings. And there's no budget losses. Then you'll realize for yourself that we won't have to allow the grain to be imported. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to know that today, at our invitation to the Supreme Council, at the invitation of the group of Ukraine-Taiwan, there are members of the Taiwanese delegation headed by the head of the Teibay-Moscow Coordination Commission of Economic and Cultural Cooperation, Mr. Chen John Jae. I'd like to welcome them along with you in applause. [[Applause]] This country has made an unprecedented leap forward, and we need to study Taiwan’s experience. GDP has increased 14 times over 50 years in this country, with currency reserves. Taiwan is a small republic, where 22 million are third in the world, about $180 billion. By trade volumes, 14th place in the world and 12th place in export. According to the structure, exports account for 95 percent of industrial production. And we need to learn! The combination of economic efforts -- I'm talking to the government! - with the Republic of Taiwan will lead to improvement, to the rise of Ukraine. I am handing to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the background information, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, about this beautiful republic on the island of Taiwan. I'm talking to the government, we have to do economic cooperation, we have to get billions of dollars involved, and we have to take out and also export our products. I'm handing you the magazine Ukraine-Taiwan, and once again I welcome the delegation and wish you success, not only in Moscow, but in Kiev. I truly believe that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u240	Thank you. I'd only like to ask that you don't take my bread and give me the opportunity to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u241	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm within my time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u242	I'm telling you. Anatoly Frost, the Communist faction, prepare for Black. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, please. Have you changed your mind?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u243	Dear colleagues. Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. At the last moment I went to the rostrum, Valérie Assadchev, one of the co-authors of this law, said that this was one of the worst bills he had ever signed. He told me in answer when I asked him what you could say in answer to your excuse. But it's because Assadchev signed it, that's what inspires trust. And there are arguments in Catherine Vaschuk that are convincing. Assadchev's arguments what? That the adoption of this law leads to the distortion of VAT. The VAT should only go into the budget at all. And it can't be used as a dating mechanism. But Catherine Vaschuk says, sorry, but there is no other dating mechanism. Let's put in place another mechanism, and this law won't be necessary. And she's right. Assadchev's right, and she's right. And I'm right when I share that point. At least, of course, it would be better not to adopt this law. The government's cancellation rate, unlike the value added tax benefits, is the right rate. And instead of a course on benefits, there's got to be a course on grants. Even though it's a bad grant. But the benefits are even worse. But with time falling, and this mechanism that exists now being eliminated, there is a need to continue. But what we do realize is that it's not a solution to the situation that we need to look for appropriate dating mechanisms, to support the local budget, because otherwise it just can't involve the social sphere. And this is also a fire law that we have to adopt, responding adequately to the situation that has arisen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u244	Leonid Chernewicki, please. Prepare Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u245	Honourable Presidency, distinguished people's deputies, distinguished voters! Leonid Chernovecki, Darnicke constituency, Christian Liberal Party. I want to tell you that I am very pleased to support this bill, but it is not the word “pleasant” but it is very important and responsible, because this may be the beginning of the dawn in Ukraine, because my draft law on the elimination of VAT has generally been in the bosoms of the Supreme Council since November, and it cannot even be heard on the Supreme Council. I think that if we accept this bill, at least we will be the deputies themselves where we work for a while, because the VAT, unfortunately, has left the delegation of Taiwan, we could ask them. I want to tell you that in America, the richest country in the world, there is no VAT in general. VAT is a form in the post-communist country of stealing money from the budget. There is no such thing as the classiest form, except, of course, the free economic zones that are cursed for Ukraine. And they're used for VAT, mostly by villains, as they call it in Latin America, fat cats, because they suck VAT returns out of the budget. And of course, the government will be against it, I assure you, because the question is, why compensate? There's nothing to make up for, because it's gonna start to bloom, everyone's finally going from town to village, and they're gonna do a great job there, make a lot of money, that's all. No one's gonna steal that VAT, here. And everything's gonna be great. And the Law Bank will go to the village too, because there'll be no other way out. I'm thrilled with your bill, and I think it's going to be a big breakthrough in our legislative work if we adopt it, because it's going to be a start. We'll prove it in a year 'cause I can't tell you anything, or they don't want to hear it. Too bad these people left Taiwan. They would say that the more VAT, the more theft in the budget, the more corruption, even in the case of the countries of Europe. I congratulate you on your bill and wish that it was adopted and voted for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u246	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u247	Honourable People's Deputies, Communist faction, Ginsburg, 161st constituency. When they talk about the social sphere, I always remember my childhood in the village, when we had a club that warmed up, a kindergarten when the movies were spinning. And when they talk about VAT, I always remember the price of milk for 14 copies, and when a liter of gasoline stood seven copies. That's how it's associated with me. I came from the district just recently, and I went to this famous compound, the village of Korotchenko, a famous political figure -- it was a colossal millionaire. We're meeting at school at the gym. I say, "Why not at the club, why not at the office? Everything burned down along with the work books. The whole social sphere -- nothing's heating up -- except for the school, there was nowhere to go. We're here. I've got a management meeting. And there are ex-colleague millionaires who no longer have anything, and there is no social sphere to speak of. And they say, "We're only here on Friday, and we wanted to set up a "Communicator". But by the time we registered in the morning, we had to remove all the rigs from the colossal table and there was nothing left." Why am I saying this? Just recently, the president of the Niwa Colosseum of the Kirovograd Region of New Ukraine is speaking and says, "You know, I've had a million and a half in my colossal year. I didn't get a penny of credit. I have taxes, I paid, a million six hundred. I bought four combines of Soviet production, a Russian joint, and I have eighty tractors working. I've got 50 kegs of bread in my cologne today, and I know it's cattle, and a half thousand pigs, chickens, and so on. He doesn't have to pass on the social sphere, he has two kindergartens, he has three schools, he pays them, he gives every student 100 bracelets at the prom. So I'm looking for an answer for myself: Do we need to adopt such laws, or do we need to make the kind of colleges that we have today, set an example and tell them that we can stick to this system, work properly? And then perhaps our State would not have faced such a problem. I came from the county and I said, "Give at least our diabetics who have diabetes. They can't buy six bracelets a Greek. At least give them some benefit or quota, give them a normal price." If, of course, we are to consider these laws, not as a way of covering the hole, but as a way to develop the best experience, then our country would, of course, be our independent country today, the most prosperous one it has truly earned in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u248	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are finalizing the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Added Value Tax for Rural Social Infrastructure Objects. I'd like to ask the government for a brief position on this matter. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I want to apologize for my colleague Vladimir Leonidovich's speech, who said that there was no agreement with the government on a draft law that had been discussed earlier. He did not say the main point: that the government, after this meeting, had given the authority to take a decision prohibiting imports into free economic zones of the product concerned. Will this decree work, or will it not? Then it will have to be strengthened by law. That's the only thing he didn't prove. With regard to this Law on Value Added Tax. I am very grateful to the MPs who have looked very carefully at this bill, who have looked very closely at the agricultural situation that today is supported. The government supports this agreement: If we have a position in the 2004 budget, a serious subsidy to agriculture, the law is no longer valid as provided for in the Transitional Regulations. I witnessed how Katerina Timofievna spoke with Mikola Janovich. He confirmed once again that yes. So thank you for your consideration and support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u249	Thank you. For this matter, please, Michael Dobkin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u250	That's not what I'm talking about. I, if there's any chance that we might consider another law today, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. It's very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u251	Dear colleagues, what do you think? This is the last of those draft laws. This is a draft law amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Employment Act concerning unemployed people who have land paws and profit from it. Yes, do you support, will we consider? Agriculture, well, let's see. Mikhail Dobkin, very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u252	Thank you, comrades, for your support. I'm very short. Dear Head, distinguished deputies and present. The bill proposes to establish that they are not unemployed citizens who have received private ownership of land in the process of reforming agricultural enterprises and have some income from them. But what I want to focus on is that this law does not refer to rural people living outside of poverty. This is only about peasants who own very large plots of land, who get some income from them, but are considered unemployed and continue to receive unemployment benefits and all the subsidies that the State pays to those sectors of the population who cannot afford it. The bill proposes to remove this social injustice and to do everything in accordance with our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u253	Please, Vladimir Josephovich Matthew's question, then Melnik, at last.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u254	This person, who receives the minimum income from this part of the earth, remains unemployed. It is only those people who, in completing the declaration in order to obtain the necessary unemployment status, are compensated. If they do not indicate that they receive some profits from the land, they will not be considered unemployed, this is now the case. A man has 10 hectares of land, he rents it, earns a thousand bracelets a month, is considered unemployed, receives subsidies. In no way do I want this bill to affect the interests of those people who grow a bunch of parsley and by doing so there. We'll set it up with you. It's on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u255	National MP Melnik Mikola Evtichovich. They took the card already, didn't they?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u256	Thank you for your support. That's what's really going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u257	Who else has the question? Igor Šurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u258	Respectable Society! In order to provide sufficient income from private property land, there must be even more objective considerations: available loans, the ability to buy goods under favourable conditions, and so forth. A peasant who has sufficient means of subsistence would hardly waste his time traveling to the circuit work center to register as unemployed and eventually get a little help each month. The text of the bill does not understand how the profits derived from land use will be determined and determined. Moreover, it is not clear what the bill refers to under a certain income. This profit could be both 300 and 30 dollars a month or any other amount. It is appropriate to define the concept of profit used in the project and to specify how it is calculated. On the other hand, there is an active law on population employment. has sufficient grounds to recognize a busy person who provides himself with a job. Quintession. The problem of unregistered employment must be addressed in a comprehensive manner, both in rural and urban areas. So the bill needs substantial work, from our point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u259	Please sit down. Alexander Stoyan, please. The idea here is, obviously, this idea needs to be worked out, specified so that all the necessary warnings can be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u260	Dear colleagues, the opinion of the Committee on Social Policy is to reject this bill. Why? Because everything is already stipulated in the current law. When a landowner is unemployed. If it has a land and does not have an income, this person has the right to be accounted for and received. And if there's profit, it's calculated. Therefore, this law does not bring any materiality, nor does it bring confusion. The committee decides to reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u261	Dear National Deputies! The position is clear. Then let's define in the process of discussion. Yuri Anatoliyovich, can you do so, yes, with regard to this bill? Huh? Please tell me and then we'll go work on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u262	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! This bill is completely, I agree with National Deputy Stoyan, it is absolutely harmful to the people of Ukraine. I'm saying why. The point is, in article 2 of the Ukrainian Employment Act, a general rule is established, according to which people of working age are considered unemployed, who because of their absence of employment do not have any earnings or income legislation. In doing so, the revenue provided for by the legislation, according to the content of the Constitution, is that it needs to be the norm, the limit of survival, the minimum of living. We already have a survival limit. That's why I'm against this law. And because it's written completely inconsequentially. It says, "citizens who have acquired private ownership of land." How much? Ten hundred, fifteen hundred? Or maybe 20 acres. If he's 20 acres, I know he's got a job, he'll live off it. What if it's 10 hundred? So I'm addressing the distinguished National Deputy Dobkin, you've been pursuing the goal, perhaps, of restricting the latifundists -- those who will have a lot of land -- yes, there are no questions about them. It may be active, but only if we predict how much there can be and so on and so forth. So far, this bill is harmful to the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u263	Thank you. Natal Ivanovna Ivanova, Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The government's attitude towards this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u264	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The honourable national MPs, the government, and the Committee on Social Policy, do not support this bill. And I would like to remind you, honourable national deputies, that you have recently adopted the Personal Agriculture Act, where you have also clearly defined approaches to identifying persons who have the right to register in employment centres that have land and those who do not have that right. The proposed bill is in complete contradiction with your adopted Law on Personal Farming. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-02-m0.u265	Dear colleagues, positions are clear. Let's think that we have completed our consideration of the draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Employment Act. [[concerning the unemployed who have the land’s pomegranate and who profit from it]] The conclusion is that the idea is obviously in the right direction, but it needs substantial development and alignment. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thanks for the job. From 16 o'clock work on committees, in MP factions and groups. Tomorrow is the day of the Supreme Council's decision. Thanks for the job.
