ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:03:11]] Registered -431 Registered from the hall, 431 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules on Friday, we discuss the schedule agreed on by the Conciliation Council, and you have a list of issues. There are no parliamentary requests under the rules today, but since there are so many for your agreement, it would be possible to vote on parliamentary requests. Is there no objection? Thank you. I'm calling in MPs. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the violation of the provisions of the Act on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, published by the newspaper Chernigiv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:22]] For-152. A decision has been made. People's Deputies Groups: Yukhnovsky, Red and others to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the intentions of the Plain State Administration to unite technical and humanitarian universities. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:58]] For-182 Decision taken. Zarai Katusheva to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of the constitutional rights of journalist Rashid Memishev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:26]] For-119 Decision taken. Oleg Tajnibok to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for payment of the average cost of travel to the Chernobyl disaster in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in the case of benefits, compensation and guarantees. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:01]] For 199 Decision taken. Mikli Pesocki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the crisis situation of the Luganskwogil Holding Company. [[10:06:27]] For-119 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies - Stacks, Kosovo and others - only seven National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the Lviv Regional Cancer Centre. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:55]] For 197 Decision taken. Vladimir Yeshchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the social protection of former workers of the Vatin mine management. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:19]] For-179 Decision taken. Yurya Lucenka, Mikli Tomenka, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the individual regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine that conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:46]] For 177 Decision taken. Mikoli Pesocki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, regarding the anti-State attitude of the head of the State Department of Coal Industry towards the Lysician Humotechnological Plant and its production. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:19]] For-126 Decision taken. Eugene Kirilczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory implementation of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' decree on the establishment of "Sport for All" physical health centres. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:46]] For 158. Decision taken. Victor Drachewski to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the date of the establishment of the city of Nicopol. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:11]] For the 110. Decision taken. Jaroslav Jodžik to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the basis of the increase in natural gas prices for utilities and the introduction of a zero VAT rate for the sale operation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:39]] For 121 Decision taken. Anatolia Ástovajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine requisitioned to provide a warm house for the elderly in the city of Jenakiyevo Donetské region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:06]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Oliynik, Colonyari, Bagrayev, Trelyakov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on Minpolivenergo's illegal activities to the collective and the tenants of the central enrichment plant "Red Town". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:35]] For 186 Decision taken. Eugene Kirilczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on illegal acts of abuse of the service position of the shareholders' company Lutské plant utility. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:03]] For 158. Decision taken. Group of National Deputies Katerinczuk, Lebedivski, Slabenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2003. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:32]] For 106 For -106, the decision is made. Valentina Seminouk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to take account of the provisions of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act in forming the composition of the Ukrainian National Property Fund. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:00]] For-146 For - 146, the decision is made. Peter Oliynik to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine about violations of the rights of citizens and businesses when registering property rights for immovable property. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:26]] For 114 For -114, the decision is made. Vladimir Mystrishkin to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the objectivity of the examination of the conditions of road transport in the Winnitz region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:56]] Z-85 For 85, no decision is taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of the unlawful actions of officials in the region of Kyrovgrad. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:23]] For-119 For 119, the decision is taken. Vladimir Yeshchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the non-application of measures to bring criminal responsibility to persons who attacked a disabled person living in the Cherkas region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:54]] For-163 For -163, the decision is made. Mikhail Radionova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of the law by officials of the public shareholders association Darna City of Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:20]] For 135 Decision taken. Mikli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the order of the Minister of Transport to introduce information censorship on transport. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:46]] For 131 Decision taken. Mikoli Krutz to the First Deputy Prime Minister on the elimination of debt from social assistance to families with children. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:12]] For-151 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the facts of exceeding official authority, the official forgery, the illegal production of special licenses for private cars that are being pursued in Ukraine and are being searched for, corruption by the Chief of State Motor Inspection, the Department of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in the Lviv region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:53]] For-164 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the provision of transport services by a disabled internationalist. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:21]] For-164 Decision taken. Anatolia Átnajka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the non-admission of schools in the city of Torez Donetské region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:47]] For 128 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the facts of the predatory destruction of forests in the Cherkas region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:12]] For 1052 Decision taken. Olega Karatumanova to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the unsatisfying state of the environment of the villages of Rogan and Babai in the Kharkiv region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:39]] For-136 Decision taken. Valentina Matvieyeva, Alla Alexandrovsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of the rule of law in resolving the issue of the permanent suspension of the village head of the Sudan of the Pervomay region of Kharkiv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:12]] For 134 Decision taken. Andrija Shkila to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the review of the criminal case by Sergey Ivanchenk on the assassination of a candidate for the Presidents of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:40]] For-123 Decision taken. People's Deputies Groups: Baloga, Ivancho, and others to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding violations of electoral legislation by the Tachiv District Election Commission in the registration of candidates for the Zacarpathian District Council. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:12]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Jurya Carmazin is with the Attorney General of Ukraine on the fact that the government's share is undervalued in the statutory fund of the joint venture Poltavian Petroleum Company. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:43]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Vassil Gladkih, head of the tax administration of Ukraine for the conduct of a financial and economic audit of the Balkan Water Management Authority. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:20]] For-100 Decision taken. Gregory Omelchenka is head of the Court of Auditors, the Chief Audit Authority of Ukraine for the verification of the use of State budget and non-budgetary funds by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:53]] For-95 Decision taken. Eugene Kirilczuk, head of the Ukrainian State Judicial Administration, for the execution of court decisions on the collection of funds. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:18]] For-119 Decision taken. Victor Slavuta is to the head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Water Management in connection with the completion of the clearance of the Georgian Jelanczyk River in the Donetsk Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:45]] For 106 For -106, the decision is made. Jaroslav Jojik to the prosecutor of Kiev about the unsatisfactory status of the investigation of the activities of the tourism company Ukvest. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:12]] For-90 In the 90 ’ s, the decision is made. Groups of National Deputies: Slabenko, Bondar, Zagreva - to the head of the Volin District State Administration for dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary inquiry regarding the formation of the Capital Construction Program. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:41]] For-95 For 95, the decision is made. Petra Toloczka to the head of Montenegro’s district government regarding the provision of teletranslation and the construction of a road in the village of Lubic. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:08]] For-86 For 86, no decision is taken. Anatoly of Moroz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution of the problem of pedagogical aids in rural areas and urban villages. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:38]] For-152. Decision taken. People's Deputies Groups: Timoshenko, Pavlovsky, Nikolayenko, Rodionov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admissibility of reducing the number of academic staff in higher educational institutions due to the very lack of funding for scientific research under the 2003 State budget. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:13]] For-153 Decision taken. People's Deputies Groups: Timoshenko, Pavlovsky, Rodionov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the continuation of targeted, unwarranted liquidation, including through the improper possession of aircraft and the theft of property, the state-owned company VAT "Avialina Airlines". [[requisition]] I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:50]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I have been approached by the authors of parliamentary motions, which were not voted on, and they ask me to put them to the vote again. You're welcome to mobilize. The request by the deputy Volodymira Masterskin to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the objectivity of the examination of the circumstances of the road transport adventure in the Vinicki region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:27]] For-92 Decision taken. People's Deputies Groups: Balogya, Ivancho to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of electoral legislation by the Tachiv District Election Commission when candidates are registered with the Zacarpathian District Council. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:57]] For 196 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the fact that the public share was undervalued in the statutory fund of the joint venture Poltava Gasonaft Company. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:23]] For 122 Decision taken. And Peter Toloczka's final request to the head of Montenegro's district government regarding the provision of television and the construction of a road in the village of Lubic. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:26:52]] For-167 Decision taken. Thank you. Let us proceed to work according to the schedule of meetings. Dear colleagues, with the procedure, please Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, today we have the first question in order of the day: a review of the European Charter of Regional Languages or of the languages of national minorities. To date, there is an interministerial commission consisting of representatives of national deputies from various factions, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Presidential Administration, and experts. We are already ahead of that we can come up with a version of this law, which we are sure will find support in this room. So until this task force has finished the job, I would find it inappropriate today to consider this issue, which, in our view, may not be supported by a vote in a week or so on Thursday. And so if our colleagues would agree to that, today we should just take that question off the table and move it, and consider it a week from now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u3	Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! Ukrainian People’s Party, Yukhnowsky The point is that, as I had just learned from Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, the Committee on Science and Education was directing its comments and making these comments properly to the committee, but they were not taken into account and they were not taken into account today's consideration. So I also ask that you postpone consideration of this issue today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u5	People's deputy Slabenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u6	Sergey Slabenko, electoral district number 19, Volinsk district. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to pay attention to this. It's not the first time I've seen a situation like this before. At 13 o'clock, we're looking at the "Variance," what I was aware of last night was recorded by 33 national MPs before the speech. Or we have to make some kind of decision that would continue to take up this issue in "Variable," or then somehow make restrictions on records. So that's the question that needs to be settled. The question was almost raised yesterday, but we did not make any decisions on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, at 1:00, we'll be looking at "Virgin." Please, Roman Zvarich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u8	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. With regard to the proposal of the national deputy Refat Chubarov, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I think it would be useful if you would get to know the session hall, the deputy corps with the contents of a letter from the head of the presidential administration, which was sent to you literally yesterday. I think that would give us an opportunity to solve this question. I'd like you to sound it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u9	Okay, I'll give him a call, but first I'll give him the President's address, then the second address, and you'll see that there's alogism. Mikola Joulinsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u10	Mikola Joulinsky, Victor Yushchenk's faction "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I think that this charter should be approached very carefully, responsibly. And since there is yet to be a committee meeting with Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk on Monday and there will be other proposals that have been considered, by the way, and in the Writer's Association, the Education Society, and they are not all taken into account. And we understand that the paper needs to be accepted. So I also think that we should look again carefully, check and put on the next meeting, but not rush into today’s discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u11	Thank you. Andrew School, please. Well, the offer is clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u12	Thank you. Andrew School, Yulia Timoshenko’s block. UNA-UNSO. Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. I would also like to support the proposal of the national deputy Refat Chubarov: there is no need to rush into such a question. Very many slippery moments in the European Charter of Regional Languages and Minorities. There are moments that are worth supporting and considering, and there are moments that just don't deserve to be discussed, and such powerful countries as France have not ratified and, as French leaders have said, never ratify a similar charter of regional languages and linguistic minorities. So, I think we should let the commission work. There's a letter from the President's Administration, I understand that there may be a letter from both the President and someone else, but in this situation, haste will lead to the non-acceptance of this charter. If someone is interested in not being accepted, that is what they should say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u13	Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u14	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, if you would have supported my suggestion yesterday that all the issues under consideration would then be voted on, you could have been heard today that you should not be considered. In view of the fact that it is not known when it will vote, perhaps days in 100 or 150. That's the first one. So let's listen. The other one. In order to remove the issue from the order of the day, which has been approved and is now in the order of the day, it takes 226 votes. If you have a wish, and you have such voices, please dial and record. It must be considered. That's the first one. The other one. You remember that paper was already approved in 1999. But those who propose to take it off today did everything they could to ensure that it was not signed and that the decision of the Constitutional Court brought it back to us in the session room. This is one of the commitments to the Council of Europe, where those who are quite actively proposing to remove it today are in a hurry. So once again, Vladimir Mikhailovich, in order to remove the issue, we need to put it to a vote and get 226 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u15	People's MP Mokchan.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u16	Paul Mokchan, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I appeal to those who have witnessed how this charter has been extended not only in violation of the procedure, but also the Rules, and all the standards of conduct that have been adopted in Parliament. I think everyone has a right, and this is fixed, everyone has a right to his position, to his own vision. And proposals have to be taken into account. In 1999, there were four parallel bills, but only one was imposed, which was then delegated by the Communist faction. That is why, as the author of one of the bills, I would ask that the same story that took place in 1999. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, it was up to you, I don't know where it came from in the order of the day ratification? After all, the commission was formed and the bills proposed were not considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u17	Thank you. National Deputy Grzezhev. This is a decision of the Conciliation Council. And I'm asking Vladimir Mikhailovich here not to blame anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u18	Respectable colleagues, even in politics, must make sense. What is more, the policy we are talking about today. For if we do not address this issue today, Ukraine's image will be reduced once again in the eyes of the world public. And second of all. What's it gonna do inside if we don't consider this? You are well aware that normal society can only develop in peace and harmony in society. There's no other way. So I ask, "If we don't consider this question, will it add peace and harmony to our society?" Of course not. I therefore insist that this be included in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u19	Oleg Zarubinski. Dear colleagues! We moved on to the discussion. Time's up. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u20	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm totally on the subject. The point is that the explanatory note to the projects indicates, which is a forgery, that the ratification of the Charter will not require additional expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine and the local budgets. But it's very clear that how you can provide pre-school education, vocational and technical education to appropriate regional or minority languages without increasing the number of teachers or appointed by teachers of other languages. So the ratification of the paper will require a corresponding financial cost. The code clearly defines part two of article 27 as the subject of the legislative initiative adding to the bill the taking of action that will result in an increase in budget expenditure, a proposal for expenditure to be reduced or proposals for sources of additional income. Is that it? None. There's no question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u21	Thank you. Sergey Drogunzov, please. I can only say what prevented you, dear colleague, from preparing and making proposals for expenses since October 26? You worked with the committee, please. And now, let's get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Thank you very much. The fact is that this charter was ratified, and an act of ratification adopted by the Supreme Council was signed by the President of Ukraine. After that, Toloczko, not Mokchan, initiates the application to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court finds some inconsistencies between the Charter and our legal institutions and so on. Then, for the second time, the president introduces the Zarubinsky NDPist, a supporter of the President, against it. This surprises me very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! This is a discussion. Mikhailo Kosov and now a representative of the committee. All of it. And let's figure out, let's make a compromise decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u24	Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine. First of all, Volodymyr Mikhailovich and his distinguished colleagues, we do not propose to remove this question from the agenda of the day-to-day third session. We suggest we take it back later. Why? Because the Committee on Culture and Spirituality has thoroughly and thoroughly discussed each paragraph of this charter. We made our proposals. These proposals are not taken into account. This is the first time. It's different. This project, which is now being proposed, has standards that do not affect the language of national minorities. So tell me, where can you find a national minority of 20,000 people all over Ukraine? This applies only to one national minority. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u25	Thank you. I see. Gennady Hennadiovich, your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u26	Dear National Deputies! Another 100 committees can be held and 100 round tables. The Council of Europe and I held a seminar on the future role of paper in Ukraine in October, organized by the Government of Ukraine and the Council of Europe. Whoever was present, we took into account their suggestions. It's just a delay. Nothing can be added to the paper. Right. Thus, we accept only the points we consider necessary in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues! At the suggestion of the National MP, I read 2 documents. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 7 - please listen carefully to the Ukrainian law on international agreements for consideration by the Supreme Council draft law on ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minorities. I would like to highlight this bill as a matter of urgency, and I would like to consider it in turn. That was October 26, 2002. During the consideration of the project, the head of the committee will be represented. Yesterday, I asked Roman Zvaric yesterday: "In connection with the proposals of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration on the need to clarify commitments that Ukraine could make by ratifying the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minority Languages, we report that, according to the President of Ukraine, this issue should be resolved in full compliance with the requirements of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the international experience and the economic capabilities of the State. Therefore, in order to promote a negotiated position on the content of the law on this issue, it is appropriate to continue the work of the relevant working group.” And people are offered to the task force. So what document should I use? What document to use? Dear colleagues, I want a document accepted for Ukraine's sake, and we all want it. But, dear colleagues, let us be consistent and logical. The President of Ukraine, if there was any doubt, had to withdraw the document and the document had to be finalized. Anything else, we'll be exposed after we make the document, we'll have a veto. And there's the position of the committee. I just don't know what we're doing. So I suggest we do this: next plenary Tuesday, we have to consider this question, because now, I understand, we will not get together and we will not find compromise. But it is not possible to delay consideration. Any decision you need is positive, negative, but a decision! What else are you holding out your hand? You're told. Well, what are we going to talk about? Well, there won't be a discussion now, they won't report it. I'll put it to a vote. May I have your attention, please? Didn't I understand what was wrong with you? I am putting to the vote the proposal to move this issue to the next plenary Tuesday, but it is mandatory. Please support this proposal, there is no other way out, dear colleagues. [[10:43:44]] For-188. The decision is not taken. Please report to Hennady Hennadiovich. Dear colleagues, please, calm down. Well, let's talk about it, it'll help produce a document. I voted in favour. Please don't tell me, Ivan Alexanderovich. Once again, please don't tell me. I'm telling you again, please don't tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u28	Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u29	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian law on ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minorities, introduced by the President of Ukraine as an urgent one. Let me focus on the main aspects of the proposed bill. The European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages was adopted by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on June 25, 1992, opened for signature on November 5, 1992, and took effect on March 1, 1998. As of October 2002, the Charter was signed by 29 countries, and 16 of them have ratified it. This is Austria, Great Britain, Armenia, Holland, Denmark, Spain, Liechtenstein, Germany, Norway, Slovakia, Slovenia, Hungary, Finland, Croatia, Sweden and Switzerland. The process of implementing the Charter of Regional Languages or Minority Languages in national laws of countries is time-consuming and not simple. This indicates the complexity, multifacetedness, and multifaceted nature of the problems associated with indigenous groups of citizens of different countries who live in certain regions that speak a language other than the rest of the population. The vast majority of countries in the ratification of this document primarily took into account historical, cultural, geographic factors, the presence of those or other speakers of languages that need special support and protection, based on the state of international relations and economic opportunities. The Charter adopted by the Council of Europe was designed as an international legal instrument called for the protection and promotion of the development of the historical languages that are in minority status with regard to the national or official languages of the country concerned, primarily those at risk of extinction. That is, the subject of the Charter’s regulation is language, its status, its protection, and its use and use. The Charter encourages participating States to protect the status of regional or minority languages. It doesn't add any special rights to those languages. The Charter proclaims goals and principles such as: the parties undertake to apply to all regional languages or minority languages used within its territory. The main purpose of the Charter is cultural. It should protect, promote the development of regional languages or minority languages that are threatened as a European cultural heritage. As a result, not only does it contain antidiscrimination warnings but it foresees measures aimed at their active support. The Charter does not extend to non - European languages, to the language of migrants, including Europeans, to individual dialects of official languages. A key principle is respect for the geographical range of each language, the need to facilitate the promotion of the use of regional or minority languages. The aim of the Charter is to ensure, as far as possible, the use of regional languages or languages in the smaller seven spheres of social life, such as education, justice, administrative and public institutions, media, culture, economic and social spheres, cross-border cooperation. This approach to legal protection allows respect for the fundamental principles of international law, such as respect for the national sovereignty of the State and recognition of its territorial integrity. According to the structure of the Charter, it consists of the preamble of the 23 articles, divided into five parts. The preamble sets out the general purpose and purpose of the adoption of the document. Stressing the inviolability of the right to use, both in the private and official use of the languages of the regions and minorities, it is noted that this should not harm the official languages and the need to study them. Part one gives recognition to the term “regional language” or “minority language”, “territorial language”, “non-territorial language”, indicates the form and procedure within which individual states are free to determine to a certain extent which of the proposed standards relates to the language in which the action of an incentive action is spread. Part 2 establishes recognition of regional languages, respect for the boundaries of each geographical area, where regional language is used. Article 2.5 of the Charter is the only one to be warned by countries. Part three proposes specific protections and incentives, from which each country has the right to choose for each of the regional languages or languages of the smaller ones which consider most appropriate in view of the actual situation of each of them, the number of carriers, the level and extent of use, the compactness of resettlement, etc., such as Article 8 in the field of education, Article 9 in the case of judicial proceedings in the region, Article 10 in the field of public administration and local and regional self-government, and in the provision of public services; Article 2 in the field of access to mass media; Article 12 in the area of culture and measures and means of implementation; Article 13 in the field of economic and social life; Article 14 in cross-border exchanges. Part four regulates the application of the Charter, part five - end positions typical of conventions and charters within the Council of Europe. In Ukraine, the Charter was ratified on December 24, 1999, but by a decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on July 12, 2000, the Act was declared unconstitutional by a violation of constitutional procedures of its conduct in the Supreme Council, and it became invalid. This process takes into account the proposals made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the central executive authorities, and the national deputies. Our nation's commitment to this international instrument was defined in a scientific and practical seminar entitled "The Future Role of Charter in Ukraine", organized by the Government of Ukraine and the Council of Europe in October 2002. A new draft of the Charter Ratification Act sets out 13 languages that require the protection of the state, with protection tied to languages rather than national minorities, as in the previous bill. It is proposed to apply 13 languages in alphabetical order: Belarusian, Bulgarian, Hague, Greek, Hebrew, Crimean Tatar. Let's read it, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u30	Please don't disturb me!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u31	Crimean Tatar, Moldovan, German, Polish, Russian, Romanian, Slovak and Hungarian. Ukraine has exercised the right to provide the Charter itself to identify the languages to which it is obliged to apply it on the basis of the text of this document, which interprets the concept of "as national minorities". If traditionally used within a certain territory of the State, different from the official language and is not a dialect or the language of migrants, it is a means of communicating a certain number of persons, it justifies the various protective and encouraging measures envisaged in this charter, and it is the most common, it is threatened to disappear. Regarding each of the languages mentioned. Wait, let me finish. With regard to each language, the selected paragraphs and subitems of the article that Ukraine takes on its own. All the requirements set out in Article 2 of the Charter for the number of items or sub-items contained in Part 3 of the Charter are met and are subject to mandatory application by the participating States. The number of items and sub-items proposed for ratification is 42 instead of the required 35. The fulfilment of these obligations is in line with the Ukrainian laws on the protection of the rights of national minorities, on the application of education, on culture, on civil and criminal justice, and on administrative implementation. So it's consistent with all the laws that were passed before. According to the U.S. census, there are 134 nationalities and nationalities in Ukraine that characterize our nation as multinational. On the basis of the above, we believe that Ukraine's draft law on the ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minority Languages deserves the adoption of the Supreme Council and I ask it to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u32	Please sign up for questions. Sign up. Please explain. Petrenko, next Zarubinsky. Please, Vladimir Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u33	Thank you. I'd like to give it to Shulga Nikolai Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u34	Shulga's microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u35	Dear Hennadia Hennadiovich! I want to ask you this question. This version, which is proposed on behalf of the President by you, narrows down those rights that already have a number of languages, in particular, we have secondary education in Hungarian, Moldovan, Romanian, Russian and so on. Now the State is not making a commitment. And all over the others. narrows down the scope of language usage.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u36	Calm down, please. Answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u37	Dear National Deputies! There's an Education Act already in place, and it doesn't conflict at all if there's a ratified charter. Today, I stress again, we didn't specifically take to the national minorities, we specifically took the language, including the Hungarian language. Whether a charter is accepted or not, it is taught in cities of the compact residence of Hungarians in full size in high schools, in high schools, in universities, in pedagogical schools. I don't know what the problem is today. If we were to do this from scratch, but it's already happening in Ukraine, and it's done in the Soviet Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u38	Carmazine. Excuse me, Zarubinsky, next Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear Hennadia Hennadiovich! Before you ask, literally, 10 seconds. Here I was called a supporter of the previous speakers. I would like to say that I am a proponent, not a person, but of national interests, as opposed to those who favor the interests of neighbouring nations. Here's a question for you. After all, Gennady Gennadyovich, the explanatory note says he won't need any extra expenses. So do we need or do we not need additional expenses? If needed, what are some? And the second question. You said 16 countries ratified this charter. But you didn't say how much. This is the first time. And you didn't talk about the territorial aspect, the differentiation in ratification. And in countries like Ukraine, it is a unitary one. Because there may be complexities and problems with one language in one area, and there is no 23. How do you see it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u40	Dear National Deputies! In fact, every country has not ratified everything. Austria -- 39, Britain -- 52, Armenia -- 39, Denmark -- 42, Spain -- 60, Cyprus -- only 12, Liechtenstein -- doesn't have any regional languages at all, or national minorities, but it still joined with solidarity in this charter. Netherlands - 48, Germany - 44, Norway - 48, Slovakia. What? What?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u41	Please do not answer these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u42	Your Honor, you ask me a question, I'll answer that. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u43	Don't pay any attention to that. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u44	Norway is 48 steps, Slovakia is 46-50 and so on. Will this require additional funding? But the thing is, culture, education is still financed. It is financed, including by educational institutions that teach in the languages of national minorities. And that doesn't say that it's going to be set up this year. It's set up every year of the budget. We've calculated that there's absolutely no extra cost. information policy is no longer required for the budget for culture, for education. They're still budgeted whether there's a charter or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u45	Okay. Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u46	Thank you, Hennaday Andryovich. Please give the floor to the national deputy of Haydos.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u47	Haydosh's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u48	Hennady Hennadiovich. Istvan Haydos, electoral district number 72, faction of SDPU. Of course, we are all interested in the speedy ratification of the Charter. However, I think I would like to add paragraph 5 to the next paragraph, and there are other suggestions. I wonder if you'd agree to that or not. So the fifth point is that in applying the Charter there is no reduction in the network of educational, cultural and other institutions that use the languages of national minorities. I believe that this supplement will prevent the closure of existing national schools. In addition, I think it would be appropriate to establish a differentiated approach to languages in the application part.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u49	Please don't make suggestions, but do you have any questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u50	As far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u51	Well, I'd like to say that. apply to them or other positions of the Charter depending on its prevalence within a certain administrative and territorial unit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, there is absolutely nothing here. According to the Education Act, parents define the language of learning. Even if we accept it, and Hungarian or other languages will be written in the Charter, and those who want to learn that language, parents, will not be, and no one will be teaching violently. He answers, and a comparative law expert is being conducted at the Ministry of Justice, and he's absolutely in line with all the laws adopted earlier by the Supreme Council. No one is violently going to teach or force anything to increase or reduce. We joined the Council of Europe in ours, and when we joined, we made a commitment to ratify the Charter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u53	Okay. Have a seat, please. The word is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Euro-Integration. Please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u54	Hungary.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u55	Gennady Hennadyovich, please sit down. Please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u56	Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear colleagues! I'd like to say first of all, it's not the committee's opinion, I'd like to express my personal opinion first of all, and I'm asking, in fact, your indulgence on this. What I'm about to say is, I think you like it, they don't like it. If you want, I won't say it. But it seems to me that this document is just too politicized, and I would very much ask that we look at it not through the prism of our ideological, but, more importantly, political principles or beliefs. I would very much like us to understand that this document really makes a very important contribution, if we ratify it, to build democracy in Ukraine. That's why I'm acting as a very passionate supporter of the document itself and the ratification procedure itself, but there's always a "but" and I'd like to actually now express the committee's position on this document. First. I'm not going to repeat everything that has been said here by Hennadi Hennadiwicz about the passage of this document, but I still have something to say about the task of the Charter itself, because I think it's essential that we get out of when we look at this document. First, indeed, paragraph 2 of the preamble itself in the Charter states that its main objective is to protect the historical regional languages or the minority languages of Europe, some of which are threatened with extinction. So the main focus of the Charter is on languages that are at risk. This is the primary task of the Charter. The transcript of this document in the Council of Europe shows that the legislator at the international level put such content in the document. As a result, the committee made some recommendations regarding a project submitted by the President. I would also like to draw attention now to another point in this Charter in the preamble itself, which is defined by it as one of the tasks of the Charter itself. I will quote from the very words of the document: "Underlining the importance of intercultural dialogue and multilingualism, and considering that the protection and development of regional languages or minority languages should not harm the official languages and the need to study them." So let's be honest, honourable colleagues, the whole conflict around this document is about whether the Ukrainian language is going to be compromised, or whether we're going to find any tools to make it even more secure, I'm going to speak very frankly, Russian. Gentlemen, both on the one hand and on the other, this is not the work of this Charter. And we just don't come out of the very context of this document when we're discussing it. Nevertheless, the committee made some substantive remarks about the document itself, which was submitted by the President for ratification. Here, my colleague, Mr. Oleg Zarubinsky, has already pointed out that Ukraine is making a considerable commitment. We want to protect 13 languages in a state-wide way. None of the 17 countries that have ratified the Charter apply a purely state principle. Today, the largest volume of application of the Charter is in one of Slovakia's instruments of ratification, which applies the Charter to nine languages, but most of them are territorial. On the average, according to the Committee's own analysis, the average language protection under this Charter is 5-6 languages. And by territorial principle, we propose to protect the Charter in a state-wide way. Gennady Andriyovich, because the question is very principled, I would ask that I still have the opportunity to present the position of the committee, as you can see, very balancedly speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u57	How long does it take?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u58	I need two or three minutes, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u59	All right, keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u60	That's one question. Second, about financial stress. I'm not going to repeat all the arguments, but the Committee's opinion is that in the scope and form of the bill submitted by the President, it will require substantial additional budgetary allocations. We did not approve of them in the State Budget Act 2003. I pay attention to this situation because Mr. Moskal did not mention that during one year we should report for the fulfilment of our obligations to the Council of Europe regarding this Charter. I was recently in Strasbourg, and I was shown a report from one country, and I simply have no right to mention what country it is, since the report is confidential, but this country has made commitments in four languages and a purely territorial principle. The report has 227 pages, so I'd like you to take this situation into account. And certain, well, they just don't understand how the members of the nuance committee are involved in the President's project itself. For example, the President proposes to protect the Hebrew language. What are you going to do, or what are you going to do? This is not defined in the President's draft. I would ask you to also understand that the main purpose of the paper is to protect languages, not to protect national minorities, which is what Hennaday Hennadiovich spoke about in his speech. This is the principle of the Charter -- not the protection of national minorities, but the protection of languages, regardless of the nationality of their media. For example, Ukrainians who speak Russian should be protected under this Charter. And there is another circumstance that I would like to draw your attention to. Part two of article three of the Charter provides for the possibility of extending the regime itself. The president proposes to determine the regime of application in the ratification law. We can't, in that way, take advantage of the norm contained in part two of the second article of the same charter, if we're going to later. We will come to the conclusion that the regime should be extended because the national legislation of Ukraine does not provide for the possibility of amending the ratification law. Therefore, the Committee’s conclusions. We have proposed to the President, by the way, I would like to absolutely categorically dismiss the charges against our committee, which have been made by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I simply accept this as a personal insult on the line of my professional activity. We just got this document-- we've been working on it right now, and we've sent out our proposals to the President. We received a response to our proposals seven weeks later from the President. And here we've worked on them, again we've agreed with all of the President's positions, and now there's a working group that's already coming out of the agreed version. In this working group there are both left-wing representatives and representatives, by the way, of all the information that this charter relates to, and representatives of the President's Administration. Our request is to allow the task force to finish its work. We're about 90 percent on the finish line. Our proposals will be just such as to take into account in most of the President's positions on the definition of a list of languages. We do not intend to change the list of languages substantially, for the Charter should, indeed, be applied in languages that are historical languages. But we also want to get out of the real, financial first and foremost possibilities of our nation. Mr. Droguntz, you just entered the hall, and you didn't hear what was said. So, what are you going to interrupt? I never let you do that, and you yell at me here. It's not very cultural of you, because you're so cultural. You have the right to a replica, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u61	Are there any questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u62	I just want to say one more sentence on this. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I want to make a major emphasis on the following. I would ask you very much not to politicize this document. Give us a chance to come up with a new document that I'm really, really convinced of, might be able to consolidate the hall. And we can take a completely normal position on a document that can really become important about contributing to the development of democracy in Ukraine. I thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u63	Please sign up for the questions. Weakness, next Zarubinsky. Please, Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u64	I ask you to convey to the People's Deputy Kostinyuk, the faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u65	Light up, please. Please, Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u66	I ask you to pass the word to Kostinjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u67	Turn on Kostinuk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u68	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. When I listened to the first reporter, I remembered writing in my day Vladimir Majakovsky. He wrote, "Friend of the Moscal, don't go to Ukraine with your teeth." But I'm talking about something else. I mean, according to the charter project, only applies to the languages of the respective national minorities, whose exclusive list is set out in article 2 of the draft law. At the same time, article 24 of the Constitution establishes that there can be no authority or restrictions on ethnic origin. I have a question. Why do you think the President and his administration are again trying to violate the Constitution of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u69	I thank you for the questions, but that would most likely be the right question addressed to the guarantor of our Constitution. I do not yet represent him and, at least, with regard to this President, I will never accept such a role. But as for the content of your remark at the President's address, I can agree, of course, that there is a discriminatory approach. Now I want to be absolutely honest with you about what idea I'm with myself. about this charter, because the paper does not prohibit it. The Charter does not prohibit the application of it on a territorial basis regarding the state language where it is at risk. But I think there's actually a reason to talk about that Ukrainian language being threatened in certain regions of Ukraine. If we are honest and honest about this, we should apply, for example, a charter in relation to the Ukrainian language in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. This committee won't offer it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u70	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear Mr. Roman! I would like to thank you for your extremely profound and legally proven statement. And I'd like you to clarify this point. It seems like it's either a committee or such a dark force is not bringing this charter to ratification right now. Please explain that this interministerial working group is acting in agreement with the President's Administration, with our executive power, with the Ukrainian Parliament, in principle, because it was the right decision. I want you to make this clear to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u72	Okay. I'm going to do a little bit of emphasis on that. On our proposal for the bill itself, the President is the deputy head of the Presidential Administration, Oleg Djomin. That's what he's saying, because the President, I understand him, not as a physical person, but as an institution, that is, the President told us in the person of Dimin to create a working group. Such a working group is formed, it is interministerial, and it represents the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the State Committee in the person of Mr. Moskal, the President's Administration and three or four committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There are representatives from all these institutions or institutions that I have called, and there are also, by the way, many experts working on that committee. We are indeed going to, I would say, as the last letter from the President has been said, to a very balanced position regarding this international agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u73	Boki Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u74	Dear Roman Mikhailovich, you. And your argument was brilliant. But I'd like to ask you this. Nevertheless, I believe that both Hennaday Hennadiovich Moskal and you, as co-reporter, discriminate against one language that is terribly popular in Ukraine and used by the guarantor of the Constitution. You know what language I'm talking about. I think this language should also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u75	Let no comment. I'm afraid I represent the committee. I could talk to you a lot about your question in the towers. But I'm trying very hard, Mr. Ivan, to speak now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u76	Mikhail Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u77	Thank you, Gennady Andreevich. Mikhail Dobkin, town of Harikov, electoral district 174, group "Democratic Initiatives". Dear Roman Mihajlovich, I am very grateful that you immediately offered to abandon and politicize this issue. This is very important because, in fact, as the previous speaker says, even with sarcasm, the question here is only one language -- in the language that I am speaking now. I have a question for you. In March 2002, a consultative referendum was held in the town of Harikov, which I represent in the Supreme Council, which has no legal implications. It was just a survey of the population. The entire population of the city of Harikov. More than 80 per cent of the Harkovcans were in favour of Russian being the second official language in the city of Harkov. This is quite a natural situation, because most harrkovcans speak Russian. I want to ask you this question in the context of what you have proposed, and this is very important and correct, not to politicize this issue. Do you not believe that not ratifying this Charter will not be a violation of human rights in our country, because the vast majority of the inhabitants of the region have spoken for the Russian language? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u78	As you asked, I have to answer briefly: no, and explain why I think so. First of all, if you leave your logic, then most of the countries of the Council of Europe that have not ratified this instrument, including countries like France and Belgium, should be abandoned that they are in violation of human rights in their country. Nobody does that. And why doesn't anyone do that? Because if you read the Charter carefully, it's not about human rights, it's about a very simple mechanism: giving people the opportunity to speak the language they want to speak. But on condition that I want to put a particular emphasis on the referendum in Kharkiv, on the condition that the state ensures that every citizen needs to learn the national language. This is the general line that is being followed in the Charter. This time. The other one. The Charter primarily speaks of languages that are at the point of extinction, or those that are at risk. Now I can tell you a secret, I think I have the opportunity to do it right now, which scheme we're going to go to at the level of the working group. Of course, we would like to propose to protect all the languages that the President has provided in his project, but first of all we will propose to apply a very specific regime in those languages that really need protection and which, according to our budgetary capabilities, can be applied.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u79	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u80	And I think that once we can process this document, I'm saying that we've already processed about 90 percent of it, you'll see that we're going out very, very much, as the President put it, a balanced approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u81	Okay, okay, don't repeat yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u82	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u83	Thank you. Please, just sit tight. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is Carmazin. I don't see him in the hall. What is it, no Yuri Anatolyovich? Please, School Andrew, next is Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u84	Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners and everyone who listens to the Supreme Council session, that's what I'm talking to! I want to describe first the very position that is reflected in the Charter. In fact, I agree with the fact that it protects, not a person, but a language, that is, a language, not a medium, but a language. And that's exactly what was said here by Mr. Moskal's official linguist, the word "autochtonics" has been deleted. Autochthons are those who come from that land, and autochthonousness is a very narrow concept, unlike the broad notion of "migrants and displaced persons." In a group of autochthonous languages, we can clearly introduce languages like Crimean Tatar, Karaim, Hagau, well, and maybe Gypsies outside like Gypsies are people who have no homeland and can defend their language in the territories of the countries in which they live. All the rest of the languages that are offered, nine languages first, I'm going to point out that this is a very serious financial burden to protect these languages, a very serious financial burden. The other one. The general principle used is that it is contrary to just the position of the Charter itself. This is not described in detail, but it was meant that the so - called principle of protection is being implemented. Why is that so? Because a country like Belgium will never be able to accept a paper like this, because the question of bilinguality in Belgium, the issue of resisting francophones and those who speak Dutch -- the Flemish people are so acute, it's so problematic that this country will just fall out of the European context if they insist on accepting such a charter. The other one. France. Why would a country like France not accept this charter? Well, first of all, in France, there are French language protection laws, many, many of them believe that expansions are being carried out in English and in other languages are more common. But there are languages that have been lost -- a language that seems to have to be reborn, a language that basically needs support, but that will, according to the French, stir up the national peace that prevails in France. So we have to be very, very careful about going out with this charter. I personally, it may surprise someone, I'm not opposed to the adoption of this Charter, I'm opposed to the use of this Charter and this law in two moments. First of all, I wonder why he's being thrown into the hall. I think it's being thrown into the hall to argue, to bump into each other's deputies from the opposition factions, to see if it'll bring some division into the opposition ranks of the national MPs, maybe one more time it'll turn out. But there can be no excuse to say that Ukraine will not be accepted by European society outside unless this Charter is ratified. It's a nonsense, it's an absolute lie, I mean, a lie. I want to emphasise, one minute, that Ukraine is taking too much interest in this situation. It says about 60 percent of this paper that is being proposed. And that's why I'm stressing that in the discussions let's take into account that they want to argue with us, they want to oppose us. And now I just got a call from the employees of the Nityshinski AES and they said that we should stand up for the Ukrainian language. I tell them that this is not about an invasion of Ukrainian language, but it will nevertheless be imposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u85	Solomatin Yuri Petrovich. The next silencer. Follow the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u86	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Kyiv region Dear colleagues, the subject of the dispute is artificially identified for our discussion, and it is not emphasized. I want to reveal this little secret: when we talk about the mother tongue, it's like it's sucked in with the mother's songs. It is, but it's not. Was it Russian, or was it Russian, for a Dutchman from Vladimir Dahl, who performed his life's feat when he made up the world-renowned Dictionary of the Living Magnificent Language? Or was it a native language for a natural German named Fasmer, who made up a second world-famous dictionary called The Etymological Dictionary of Russian? So the defenders of any national language, or Russian or Ukrainian or any other language, do not have to be ethnic and that's the definition. The spears are now breaking around the status of the Great Russian, or Russian, language, and the protection of the debilitated Ukrainian language. In this regard, I would like to say that the object of the dispute is artificially seen beyond the actual substance of the dispute. Great Russian, Russian, is placed in these disputes as essentially national, such as Moldovan, Armenian, Crimean, Hagueese, and so on. That's the reason, that's where the fake is. Great Russian, or Russian, or Soviet, is primarily the historical function of the language of international communication within not only Ukraine, the former Russian Empire, then the Soviet Union, and then the entire socialist camp. Some 500 million people knew this language, including more than 50 percent of the population in Ukraine. So when I referred to Philip Blair, a representative, director of the Directorate for Cooperation in Local Regional Policy and Democracy of the Council of Europe, he stressed the round table that was devoted to this issue. I quote from the original: “At the same time, the obligations of States to protect the minority language must be greater than the number of representatives of a language group”. And that's why I want to end up saying that. Our faction made its remarks from January 31st of this year to the Law on the Ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minorities. I ask you all to familiarize yourself with these remarks and I assure you that our position remains unchanged and that we are in favour of supporting the European Charter on Languages in the extent to which the needs of the entire Ukrainian population, the entire Ukrainian people, are most fully met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u87	Thank you. Paul Mikhailovich Movchan. The next miner.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u88	Ukrainian People's Party, faction of Ukraine. Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished colleagues. There are no warnings about the content of the paper as a basic document that is called upon to protect the languages of national minorities. And Roman Zvaric gave a clear classification of those language groups that need protection. And I don't need to go back to the document that highlights the most: the languages at risk must be protected. And that's why the principles of protecting this paper are applied. They provide for the functions of those endangered languages in all parameters: cultural, information, educational, and business. Please tell me what is at risk to the Russian language that threatens Ukrainian? This charter just beats Ukraine, washes it completely, if it's adopted in a way that is suggested by Viktor Vladimirovich Medvedchuk, because that's what he submitted, and today he's writing a letter asking for a review of the possibility and finding the only optimal solution necessary for the session room. In order for us to really accept that paper, at those 34 points. Why I'm saying 34, because Hennady Hennadiyovich doesn't say how many points Hungary took, how many Germany and all the states listed. What languages, languages that are protected. That's why we're talking about one thing. We don't mind completely ratifying. Let us ask ourselves: Why is Russia not in a hurry? Why did Germany not register Turkish? Seven million Turks today in Germany. Two-and-a-half officially. 7.5 million off the record, latest data. Why not include other European ratification nations. For example, France, it will never ratify because the number of Arabs there is incredibly large. Gennady Andryovich, as the author of the bill, I am entitled to 10 minutes. Why is this paper being considered today? My bill is not included. Why, last time there were battalions here, and you know what they ended up doing, what story Alexander Mikolaiovich had taken out of the hall. That was the detonator, the paper. Then Medvedchuk followed him. You remember who speculated in language, in language. And so if we want the result, Your Honor, I would like to be able to explain why it needs to be ratified and in what way, where. So 35 is possible, not 42, as Medvechuk suggested. Because in Russian, I say again, nothing threatens Ukraine. But there is a threat to Ukrainian language. Russian language has its own nationality. Russian language has a field of development. But if we accept this option, we're legitimizing it. And you don't have to cheat. We give the Russian language the right to do so. And we never make things right in life. What is more, I would like to include in the register, as the Kharkivs suggest, because this was about the thought being so expressed in Kharkiv, they said to list or register Ukrainian as threatened in certain areas. It should have been in the same Donetsk region, Lugansk region, and Kharkiv region as the language threatened. That is why I would like to point out that as a result of the long stay of Ukrainians in the Russian Empire, language has been eliminated from almost all spheres of communication. I'm just going to give you four decrees of unprecedenteds that didn't have analogs in the world. The decree of Peter I in 1720 on the prohibition of printing in English and the deletion of texts written in English; the decree of Catherine II on the prohibition of teaching in Ukrainian at the Kyiv-Mogilian Academy, in 1775, the destruction of the Kirilo-Methodium Brotherhood and the increase of persecution of Ukrainian language and culture; and in 1863, the well-known Valuyim decree and circular and M. decree of 1866. Call me at least one state, whether it's official or not, has been circularly followed. There's no analogy. That is why we are in an extremely complex, postcolonial situation where Ukrainian language needs protection. And that's why I proposed in this bill, which Roman Zvaritch didn't mention for some reason that we're only threatened and narrow down the number of languages to those parameters that go to the protection of Crimean Tatars, Hagues, Romas, if we're talking about Hebrew, we're not talking about Hebrew, we're talking about Hebrew, we're talking about Hebrew, we're talking about Hebrew, we're talking about Hebrew, we're talking about Hebrew. So we have to find the best way to make this document valid and not push us against each other here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u89	A miner, please. And let's talk about it. Listen, please. As far as the schedule is concerned, time is 45 minutes away. How much more time do we need? Come on. Ivan Alexanderovich, you. Not only are you in this room, so calm down and we'll make decisions. Please sit down and listen. How long does it take? Please, it's Chubarov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u90	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, here comes Hoornik, with nine other deputies. Nine times three to twenty-seven. Let's take another 30 minutes, but all those who signed up, let them be able to both Shulga, and let them speak. Okay? 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u91	There's no objection. But this decision must be made in the hall. There's no objection, 30 minutes extra, if we're giving out? Is there no objection? Okay. Please, Gunner. Next Chubarov. But stick to the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u92	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! As a representative of the Committee of Budget of the Supreme Council, I would like to clarify some of the financial issues relating to this law. We discussed this law on the committee. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is no agreement between the Minister of Finance in the handbook provided by the Deputy Chief of Staff of the Ukrainian President. The items provided for by this law require additional funding. At least in the chapters of education, in the media, in the judiciary, in such languages as Bulgarian, and in the same language as you, in German, in Polish, and in other languages. So Mr. Moskal's reference to the fact that there is no need for any additional funding here is, in a mild sense, completely inaccurate information. I want to bring to your attention that the Committee on Budgets has asked the Ministry of Finance with an estimate, asking you to calculate the costs that the Charter and the law need to be introduced in such a way, and recommended that these costs be clarified, at least for the ratification of the Charter, so far put off the issue. I want to draw your attention to another aspect of the problem. The law provides that it will take effect from the day of its publication. This is also in some ways contrary to what the Charter offers. The Charter allows it to be approved in the form of ratification, in the form of approval, in the form of a legislative act. Why ratification, and why just one moment? According to the same Charter, we will have to report to the Council of Europe in a year and then every three years. The introduction of legislation in such a form without a programme for the development of national minority languages, and the fact that some languages that really disappear in Ukraine need to be protected, there is no doubt about it. There are very few Belarusians who speak their own language and, of course, Belarusian in our territory need protection, as do many of the languages indicated here, but this also requires additional funding. So the proposal is to be in that form. Where the law is laid down, it cannot be adopted. It must have been established by someone who had passed the law in that form. He needs to be sent to refinements, to calculate financial aspects, to calculate other aspects of the problem, to add a national language development programme to it, and to align it with budgetary issues, then to the approval of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u93	Complete the rules, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u94	So I propose that this law be sent for adoption in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u95	Rephat Chubarov, next one is Kosov. Follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u96	Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear National Deputies! The fact that we have to ratify the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minority Languages is certain, I have no doubt. In my view, the Constitution of Ukraine should become the most important guide for the ratification of the Charter. We have not had as much discussion since the adoption of the Constitution as we are now having discussions on the Charter or the possibility of ratifying it. So I think that if we recognize these sections of the Constitution as giving us the ability to determine in principle the direction in these areas, I think it should be the orientation in the ratification of the Charter. I'm going to repeat what the previous speakers said to me. The main task of the Charter is to create or expand the legal framework for the protection and development of the languages concerned, but not of national smaller or other subjects, and to use concrete measures to support it. Now, about the Ukrainian specifics or, if you want, Ukrainian realities. In any form, the ratified Charter cannot afford to ignore the state language in any region of Ukraine. This should become our main thesis and it has us and, I am sure, it can unite us. The other one. The Charter should be applied primarily to those historic regional languages or minority languages in Ukraine that are threatened with extinction. Dear colleagues, I'll be honest with you, I see that when we consider this issue, we are not yet able to go beyond the stereotypes that define our approaches, including in this regard. But I want to encourage you, in every faction, almost every faction has scientists, including language issues, please take a calm look at the factions of real-world languages in Ukraine, though for yourself, if you don't want to recognize from this rostrum just in your heart what city you're in and what language you're in. Whether we can compare Russian or Ukrainian, let's say, with Karaite or Crimean, which is almost dead, dozens of carriers remain not only in Ukraine, but in the world. This is one situation. Can we compare a language to a Crimean Tatar language that has been banned in general for half a century, and in just twelve years of independence, we've only been able to prepare textbooks for the first and fourth grades of secondary school, and for the senior classes, we don't have textbooks. Can we ignore the situation in eastern Ukraine, where Ukrainian language is at its worst? In closing, I want to say that unfortunately, and you're mistaken here, some of my colleagues, are the only subject to this law, is the President of Ukraine. He can submit in the form he submits. So we set up a working group to unite the approaches of both the Administration and the National Deputies and the relevant ministries and convince the President to give it in a different form. And I think we can do that. Unfortunately, we've brought it up, we'll try to vote, I don't think we can vote and then we'll make another choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u97	Mikhailo Kosov. The next Hare. Get ready for the show, please. There's no time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, I enjoyed the presentation by the Head of the State Committee on Nationalities and Migration. You, Gennady Hennadyovich, have shown yourself to be a truly combative military officer, general. But, if you'll excuse me, you're a linguist. I cannot agree with your treatment and treatment of other colleagues that this is not a political issue. That's not true. The fact is that in Ukraine the issue of languages is essentially political, for it is the result of the policies of the previous states, many of which were ruled by Ukraine. It's political today, because I have no doubt that it, my fellow Communists, has been introduced into this room in order for you and me to have a complete fight on this issue and part, and that all of our actions will become impossible. And to the action "Get up, Ukraine!" It is impossible for our adherents and your followers to begin speaking, not about what they should talk about, but about the preservation of speech, when they come down here in the European Square. So I am in favour of this Charter being accepted, so that the principle of languages threatened by extinction be clearly written and preserved in this Charter. And what Rephat Chubarov said must have been there. But again, let us not say that this is only cultural, for language in Ukraine was never just a matter of culture. The language in Ukraine was also a matter of politics. And we're even in elections, at our meetings on the left and on the right, and every time we meet these issues, it's necessary. Last Sunday we opened a memorial board in Lviv, dedicated to Alexander Yemen, there was John Plush, so all the questions that were addressed to Ivy related to what you did, John Stepanovich, being twice the head of the Supreme Council for the approval of the Ukrainian language as a national language? So this is a purely political nature. So let's listen to what the experts are offering us, let's postpone voting today, well, we've already passed the review, let's postpone voting until the really qualified committee presents us with a project that we're all voting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u99	John the Rabbit, the next Yukhnowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u100	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, the honourable presiding officer. The issue under discussion is delicate and important, so our discussion should also take place responsibly in Ukraine’s national interests. The President's proposal presented by Mr. Moskal is an example of unprofessionality and neglect of Ukraine's national interests. Why? First. Because, first of all, the President proposes to make commitments to Ukraine to protect regional languages that are essentially impossible to implement. He suggests protecting 13 languages of the national minority, or so - called regional languages. Dear friends, we cannot provide financial protection today, even in the national Ukrainian language. We vote in the State budget to allocate 10 million dollars to the development of the Ukrainian language. And where are they, where are they, these 10 million? In the so-called capital investments of the Ministry of Culture, capital investments, think! That is how politics is demonstrated by our state actions in relation to language politics in Ukraine. Secondly, the President proposes to protect languages that are not at risk of destruction. Is Russian Language at Risk of Destruction? No, it's not. In addition to her stay in Ukraine, she is protected by the Russian state in Russia, a respected friend. This can be said of Polish, other languages, and so forth and so forth. That is, we must protect the languages that disappear for all mankind, for all civilization. And that's the language we have: it's both Crimean Tatar, it's Hagueian, and it's a lot more. Thirdly, the President proposes to protect the Hebrew language. What is Hebrew: You go, Hebrew? As you can see, the President is proposing the concept of growth. We'll see, maybe there'll be one language in Israel, and then there'll be a question in Ukraine, so we'll introduce another language, we'll have Israel there, and then we'll have some language, and so on. Dear friends, what is this about?Oh, my God! We should also protect languages that disappear, not play games like this. Four. The draft law has been submitted in violation of the Rules because there is no financial justification. It is not true that the commitments made by Ukraine do not require financial commitment. They need, they need, they need, they need, they need, they need, they need, they need, they need, they And here I support Mr. Zarubinski. If this bill is so imperfect, why is it submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council and even now. But because someone, and this someone is sitting there in the President's Office, perhaps even at the head of this administration, wants not only to dissuade us, the national deputies of the Supreme Council, to reduce the potential of the Supreme Council, but also to disrupt the international peace that exists today in Ukraine. This is what such an imperfect bill is capable of today. So I support the committee's proposals to make a single position. Let the working committee composed of representatives of the Supreme Council from the Cabinet of Ministers and the President's Administration work. I also want to support Refata Chubarov, who needs to protect Ukrainian language. People came up with such a term and introduced it into the Constitution as "the language of the state." For nothing unites the nation as a single national language. It unites people. But that means we don't have to protect national languages, we have to protect national languages, we're going to protect them, but we have to do it in a way that doesn't hurt national language, and so we don't want to take away the peace that we've been so careful of over the past 10 years. Last sentence. I will tell you, dear friends, that one of the moments of victory in Ukraine of the People's Movement of Ukraine, the Movement of Ukraine, was that we proclaimed the idea of international peace then. And that's why people supported us. Thank you. Thank you, Hennady Andryovich, for letting me do some work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u101	And that's what you call work? Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, next Grzezhev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u102	Dear Chairman, distinguished MPs! We got to know the schools of national minorities very carefully. I don't want to talk about schools and higher education institutions that actually work in Russian. But I want to say more about these schools that work in the languages of national minorities. In particular, I looked at the textbooks of Hungarian schools in Zakarpat. I have to say that these textbooks don't have nearly one word of Ukraine. Children who attend high school there study all the subjects in Hungarian. I'd like to ask you, Your Honor, where will such a high school graduate go if he's studied all the subjects in Hungarian? He's going to work in Hungary. Similarly, we have Russian. So I think we have to put a complete order here, one that exists in other countries. Indeed, there may be lessons in native language in areas where there are most of the population, but basic subjects: physics, chemistry, mathematics should be studied in Ukrainian because these people will go to Ukrainian colleges to learn and become Ukrainian specialists. Before that, I want to say that these schools are financed by foreign states, financed by Hungary, financed by Romania, financed by other states. We don't have such a simple situation, with the complete vacchanal of freedom that we have in Ukraine, we have to figure it out. I fully agree with Mr. Solomatin regarding the position of the Russian language. He performed beautifully, he spoke in English, and I am very grateful to him. But the Russian language, the English language, the French language really became the language of international communication. When you are at various international conferences, there are three languages in which you are allowed to speak with certain reports. And I don't mind if we study Russian. But Ukraine is the result of the national definition of the Ukrainian nation. And in order for this nation to unite the nation into one nation, there must be a national language in that nation, and this national language is the Ukrainian language. The difference between Russian and Ukrainian is very small. And so the Russians can learn the Ukrainian language and respect it by living in Ukraine, the Ukrainian State. Like Ukrainians living in Russia, they know Russian and respect the Russian state. So it's very clear in the paper that the development of minority languages should not be harmful to the development of the national language. Let's get out of this principle. And in the end, I want to repeat again what my predecessors said. Deputies! I will say more harshly, honourable deputies, let us not be foolish or take suggestions that try to separate us. That's not the point right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u103	Please, Grosjev. Next Shufrich. As far as MPs are concerned, they're not stupid.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! I am not a linguist, but I have enough life and political experience to judge the trials that are taking place in Ukraine and in our Parliament. What should we be guided about? The laws and the Constitution of Ukraine should guide them. Here's the first thing we need to see. It is defined by the Constitution of Ukraine. We must build a sovereign, independent, democratic, legal Power. And in this I think we are all together, both right and left. So here's the question. Does the ratification of the Charter contribute to this or not? I think everyone agrees that, because the protection of the interests of national minorities is just about democracy, it is about the law and other points. Then what's the question if that's the case? The question is simply that some politicians are trying to build their programme and their visions on the basis of ideological inadequacies. That's the first one. Second. I've already said when I spoke from the place that there will be no family without consent or peace. Ukraine is the same family, and we must understand perfectly, and no ideology can help if there is disagreement. Therefore, every ideological side must be left behind today, so to speak, and only by these points. That's what's important to us. We'll be together, then. Not together, it won't work. So I ask again, does the ratification of this charter unite us or separate us? Perhaps you too will agree that this is a moment of unity, and we must certainly support it. And third. I agree here with Mikhail Kosiv, who said that any issues that today are such a national plan are very acute and can be brought to our attention. I ask you, you cannot accuse me of doing something in my life in order to be in addition to Ukraine's interests, you cannot make such claims to me, although I represent the Socialist Party of Ukraine today. So I'm asking you, let's still support this Charter and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u105	Thank you. Please Nestor Schufrich, next is Schulga.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, we have all made sure during today's discussion that it is our duty to sign, ratify, ratify the Charter, the European Charter of Regional Languages and Languages of National Minorities and that it is normal. Of course, we can't let this document become a destructive object, we have to work on it. Our faction agrees that it is in agreement with all the political forces represented in the Supreme Council and that we have signed it. It's going to be our demonstration that we want to work together and we don't have any contradictions, at least on this important issue, differences, thank you. Today, I am convinced that we cannot allow the fact that the ratification of this Charter, and the situation that is already taking place in Ukraine, has worsened for someone. We therefore ask that the following paragraph be inserted: "In applying the Charter, there shall be no reduction in the network of educational, cultural and other institutions in which the languages of national minorities are used." I am convinced that it is the work of the working group to agree on the proposals of the various political forces, factions and groups of our Supreme Council that will demonstrate that we today can resolve the issue together and come up with an agreed decision. I hope so. Thank you and invite the working group to consider carefully all the suggestions that have been made in this room today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u107	ShuIga Mikola Alexandrovich, next to Kafarski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u108	Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! I want to go to you and remind you that this is a question that we're discussing, this is a question that concerns orientation or a lack of orientation on European values. If we stick to humanistic values, if we respect human rights, we must recognize the rights of those linguistic groups that are in the minority. And I'm really glad that we're saying right now that we're talking about a minority language charter or a minority language, not a national minority. That's very nice. Of course, we would not want to politicize this issue. And here's the hottest question in the area of Ukrainian -- Russian. Or the normal state of the Ukrainian language. No, it's not. I answer no. Apparently, it's Russian. It's a very simplistic and wrong position, and I think it's a very simplified way out of the situation of those who haven't been able in 12 years in the country to raise prestige, to strengthen the state of the Ukrainian language. And then it's easier to say that it's Russian. No, no, no! Russian language is not to blame! Is there a threat to Russian language? He's threatening. What Is Threatening? Surprisingly, it appears today. Why? Because it is not studied, the language is not normally studied, and the language environment is 50 percent of the population in the survey uses Russian every day. So let's at least teach people to speak the normative language so that they don't be a laughingstock when they use that language. But we have an even more difficult situation. Look at the last census we have. We have 6.5 million. The husband speaks a language that does not conform to their nationality. 6.5 million Man! They speak one language and nationality another. This does not apply only to Russian. We have gypsies for whom Hungarian is native, and so on, I'm not going to waste my time. We have to do everything we can to accept this Charter, but the Charter must be accepted. And I think we have the ability to make certain proposals that are being made there today, and to accept it in a normal way that will not threaten anyone, on the contrary, it will contribute to social reconciliation. What about funding? We're already funding today. It's not just about the languages that are being studied today, and it's just about protecting the Charter itself that they won't be dumped on the sidelines, that they'll continue to exist in us as language of learning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u109	Kafarsky, please, Vladimir Ivanovich. Next Heidash. Let's talk about it. We're having a break right now, but we're going to be working all the time, aren't we? We're taking our time. Okay. Please, Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, surely the Charter must be accepted. But if we take the history of the adoption of the Charter by other states, we see that they have been accepted from a historical level of development, from a political situation in the state, from a political perspective in the state, from a demographic perspective, from other factors that have served primarily for the benefit of that State that has accepted a charter. As a result, certain points of the Charter were limited to the position of the nations. Second, the more we discussed this issue, the more questions I raised to the speakers. For example, what material support for the languages of national smaller ones should we provide when their national formations can give them more and give them more, as we do. Can we now ask the question after the full volume of this charter, as it is given, when we have not yet accepted the anthem of Ukraine, when we have territorial nationalities or local authorities on which flags of other states, not Ukraine, are hanging today? And surely can we today defend a language that, for example, absorbs Ukrainian in us? It must be a matter for the committee to consider. But let's look further. Let's take the position of the Charter as a closing point. The project suggests that Ukraine apply to each of the above - mentioned thirteen. applied the position of the Charter in the field of education, in the field of world authority as of today, the activities of the administrative authorities in the provision of public services, such as the use or acceptance, if necessary, in parallel with the names of the official languages of the traditional right forms of the languages in which they live, the activities of the media, in the field of culture. And in economic and social life, item. Article 13, in particular “the parties to the Charter undertake to apply in the internal rules of the company, private documents of any position that includes limiting the use of regional languages”. So internal document management can be in the language of these national minorities. I think that the Charter needs to be worked out, brought to Ukraine's capabilities, that we can provide and that we can give at this time, not be afraid to reduce it in accordance with how fully it is presented, and, more importantly, to adopt this charter in conjunction with a package of laws that would support Ukrainian language in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u111	Thank you. He's the only person in the book. Istvan Geidosh. Zybenko's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u112	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national deputies. Istwan Haydos, constituency number 72, Hungarian constituency in Ukraine, faction of SDPU. Of course, we're all interested in the speedy ratification of the paper. However, I think the proposed Bill No. 0056 needs work. In particular, I would like to propose that paragraph 5 of the draft law be completed by the following paragraph, which, in principle, my colleague on the faction has already mentioned. The application of the Charter prevents the reduction of the network of educational, cultural, and other institutions in which languages of national minorities are used. I believe that this supplement will prevent the closure of existing national schools. In addition, I think it would be appropriate to establish a differentiated approach to languages to apply to them a particular position of the charter depending on their distribution within a certain administrative and territorial unit. The squeezing nature of the paper allows for this. Next. In my opinion, in the explanatory note, it was appropriate to note the state of use of a language in Ukraine, the statistics on its media, the measures that are already in place today in relation to one language or another that still needs to be implemented. This would allow a more qualitative approach to the issue, the Supreme Council, to determine the system of this differentiated approach and as a result to accept the optimal option. In view of the foregoing, I believe that the bill in question needs further work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u113	Thank you very much. Cibenko, please, Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u114	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Dear colleagues, dear voters, I am sad to say that a perfectly normal, working question, if you like, has become a hostage of the situation in the hall and a coin of exchange in political opposition. As a Communist, as head of the committee, as a representative of the eastern region of Ukraine, I believe that we are simply destined to accept ratification. Sign this document by discussing, making changes there and so forth, and so forth. Why? Because I am absolutely convinced that this is the only way out of the situation. Because, on the one hand, there's part of the MPs and part of the factions that don't think there's a problem, and that document doesn't have to be accepted. This is one extreme position. There's another extreme position. And we all know about her. Let's not hide our heads in the sand. And the point is that some of our citizens are conscious, and for that they have arguments, they ask the question of adopting a second national language. Some of the district councils, including the Parliament of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, have made appropriate decisions on this issue. Moreover, the argument that it is impossible to solve this problem is not entirely reasoned and not convincing. Because you and I know that in the world, more than forty countries of the world have between two and four national languages in countries. So it's a real solution. But once again, the only compromise to get out of this situation is to ratify this charter with the comments that will be made. One more thing I can't help but say. I emphasize that I have to say it as a Ukrainian, just like a Ukrainian. That's what this is about. I have literally heard such information on the radio today that at the 2002 census, unlike the 1999 census, they define themselves as Russians by 4 million less than they were in 1989. You know, this figure, I take it, coincides by accident with the number of people who have decreased in the population of Ukraine. So someone would be willing to speculate on this coincidence, saying that the population had been reduced by the Russians, at the expense of the Russian - speaking population. Once again, the only way we can get out of this situation is to accept this document, ratify the language charter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! We've already used two regulations. We have five more men. That's how I propose. After a minute, give each one a word. Five men, three minutes each word?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u116	Gennadius Vasilovich, I believe it will be the discrimination of MPs if you reduce the rules. I protest such discrimination. I demand three minutes. I'll talk for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u117	This can determine the hall. Turn off the microphone. Let's define in the hall, let's define. Three minutes to go, five men to go? What decision will the Hall make? I can't make my own decisions. Who denies giving three minutes to the five who ask for words? Is there no objection? Turn on the microphone, please. But follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u118	I will not thank you for giving me the right to exercise my right. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine", National Movement of Ukraine. The National Movement of Ukraine, which, during its time of activity, revived national and cultural societies in Ukraine, which included it as associate members: both Jewish, Russian, Polish, Hungarian, and Czech, Slovak, and Armenian, and many others. So this is what I want to say. The question today is not whether to ratify the European Charter as a national minority. It needs to be ratified. It's about how we should ratify it and whether we should make it a way to divide it into Ukrainian society and how to review the Constitution of Ukraine, and the Constitutional Court's decision to apply the 10th article, which, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, is not subject to review. I want to point out that the very idea of the European Charter is to protect languages that disappear. Of course, there's no problem with German in Germany, and the German Constitution says, "every German has a right," because German citizens are automatically considered German. And in France, nationality is French, whether you have black skin or yellow. And of course, that's why Russia passed the State Language Act a few days ago, despite the federal nature of the state and the existence of a number of national substates in it. From this point of view, I'd like to say, let's ratify the charter without twisting its essence. Let us protect those languages that are truly at risk. I agree that we should look at the census results, Mr. Zibenko. So let's see how many nationals speak not the national language. How many languages of national minorities lose their media. So let's worry about these languages first. Let's think about what is now disappearing in the country of Jewish-speaking Jews, you go, a whole layer of centuries old, a culture where one of them is worth Scholm-Aleich. Let's think about the fact that there is nowhere else to be reborn in Crimean Tatar language as soon as we have here in Ukraine, but let's also note that there is no place in Ukrainian anywhere else in the Earth Tower than in Ukraine. There is no threat to Russian language in Ukraine, and from this rostrum the speakers of that language in the only parliament in the world speak in a non - state language and are not subject to persecution. But whether in Tumen and the district council and the legislature, where 70 percent of the Ukrainian population, or at least one would be allowed to speak in Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u119	Complete the rules, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u120	So I want to end up saying this. We can argue with many, we can bring about a new acute political problem in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u121	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u122	I'm done, but let me do it! But it's quite possible to spend the 350th year of Russia in Ukraine in a row, let's at least do the year of Ukraine in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u123	Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u124	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u125	Stojko, please, the next one is Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u126	Dear Head, Dear Colleagues, today indeed. John Stoyko, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Today we are really discussing a very important issue. I think we should ratify the Charter, but not today because Ukraine is only building a democratic society today. And if the brothers in the countries of permanent democracy, the Europeans, only 17 countries ratified this Charter with warnings. Today, on the contrary, I want to protect Ukrainian language because for 11 years we have not been able to do everything we can to make it function fully in our country. See, today, indeed, the only parliament in the world where non-State language is spoken. Today, executive authorities, ministers do not know the Ukrainian language, and I have a logical question: Were they properly accepted? Because any government official who fills out a questionnaire writes whether he owns it or not. I also lived for a long time in Russia, and I have no idea how I, for example, as a Russian parliamentarian, would speak in Ukrainian. Moreover, Russia has not come close to ratification. And nothing threatens us today, my fellow Russian, today we need to save the Karaite language, the Hagau language, the Crimean Tatar language, which, apart from Ukraine, does not have its state language. Today, Ukrainian language is in a worse position than it was 10 years ago. Nobody's doing article 10 today, which speaks of the status of the state language, and talking about ratification today, I think it's too early. We have to make sure that the Ukrainians who make up 70 percent today, if Mr. Dobkin has a referendum in Kharkiv, he's very wrong, because more than 60 percent, about 70 percent, want Ukrainians. It's in Ukrainian. Do we have it? Do we have the media in most Ukrainians? No, it's not. Neither newspapers nor television are available in Ukrainian today. So I wouldn't want anyone to throw that bone at us today, so they can fight right and left here. Today, when we must be alone, today is the time when we have to fight the anti-State regime. And so, dear colleagues, I'm asking you not to accept this ratification today, to postpone it, to refine it, and if the Ukrainian language works properly in the state, then you can accept it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u127	Carmazine. I beg you, just as we agreed, Yuri Anatolyovich. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u128	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been absent and advertised, I've been on the phone for what's happened, I've been on the Antimonopoly Committee meeting to discuss tariff issues in the city of Odessa heroes that have been seriously raised. What's more, there's a standard of spending on a person's drinking water -- 350 liters. You know what it is. With regard to the question that we are considering right now, it is a very important question. I'd like to get it back to a different plane. I am addressing Mr. Moskal, I am addressing the President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma: once again, please open the Constitution of Ukraine and open the Constitutional Court's decision on these matters! The Constitutional Court found the ratification law unconstitutional. We want to ratify again now in the same way! What are we doing? We want education, justice, public administration, public services, the media, etc. on Hebrew, on Jews, on Jews, on The Hague, on Crimean, on Crimean, on Moldovan, on German, on Greek, on the Russian, on the Romanian, on the Romanian, on the Romanian, on the Romanian, on the Crimean, on the Moldovan, on the German, on the Russian, on the Romanian, on the Romanian, on education, on justice, on public service, on the media, on the other hand? So we're all out of our minds?Oh, my God! So let's see that there are state institutions in the state, I'm finishing up, this is justice, this is government administration. And so I propose, as in a normal country.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u129	Yuri Anatolyovich, you asked for a minute!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u130	Yeah, I'm done. That's it, I'm done. I'll make you an offer. The suggestion is to postpone, rework, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u131	We all understand that, there was already such an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u132	As President only to differentiate the amount of the obligation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u133	Turn off the microphone. From the place of Kuras. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, I've asked permission for a minute to draw attention to this. Actually, it's an offer. When these documents were developed, there was no summary of the last census. And there's a very important moment. The 89th year gave us an indicator of 110 ethnic groups and communities in Ukraine that are now smaller than 130. It seems to me that both the commission that works and the committee, the distinguished Hennaday Hennadiovich, and we all have to look closely at this figure. It will allow us to clarify the composition, firstly, of these ethnic smaller, secondly, the vacation question about them and Europeanism, and autonomy, and the most annoying question to answer -- the threat to their existence, these languages. And finally, what criteria did these ethnic groups and representatives of national minorities have? Thus, this question is very important, and it directly touches on the subject of our discussion today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u135	Ivan Fedorovich, the Rules!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u136	What concerns the issue of the declaration itself is that here all pro and counter have long been spoken, and I am behind its ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u137	Boris Olinick. Out of the way, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I wanted you to see me. The thing is, with all the difficulty of today's discussion, it's going to be the hardest thing for us to do in June for a delegation to the Parliamentary Council of Europe to report on one option or another. So I would ask you not to put the matter to the vote in this discussion. And yet to listen to Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, who gave a fairly precise spectral analysis of this problem and better address it on the committee, involving all factions than bringing it out in that state, because immediately the information will go to the High Council of Europe. Please. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u139	Mikhail Dobkin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u140	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. I'm in the form of a lineup with my colleague, Mr. Stoyko, and I want to say that there was no referendum in Kharkiv. This referendum took place in a city of about two million people, and over one million people voted. So I invite you to respect the electorate. Dear Mr Stojko, I am addressing you! I ask you to respect the voters who so express their opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u141	Final word, please, if there is. Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric of the Committee, closing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, I'm really, really grateful for this, I take it, in general. I can tell you that, the general understanding of the position of the committee. I can only say one thing, based on what Boris Illich said: Boris Illich, be assured, your colleagues, be assured that we will not stop this process. If necessary, I can make a commitment that by at least two or three weeks, I think there's also Mr. Shulga here, who works in this working group, we can propose to the President, and I'm convinced that since the President's representatives, including now Mr. Zadrodni, will be working in this working group, the President will agree with us. And then you will see that we will be able to make this version of this law, which instead of separating us, it will be the object of the further consolidation of our parliament, and the paper itself will then become the object of the further expansion of democracy in Ukraine. I thank you very much for your understanding, for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u143	Ivan Stojko. Half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u144	Thank you. I want to speak to Mr. Dobkin, as my last name has been called. It turns out you speak very well in Ukrainian. And I think you'll continue to use it. But I'd like to say something else. I called some kind of referendum because it's invalid. And I would like to ask you, how many Ukrainian schools, Ukrainian theaters, Ukrainian kindergartens are there in Kharkiv? And this is in 10 years of the existence of the Ukrainian State. Tell me, why do these arguments? From the government, from the committee, Hennaday Hennadiovich, do you have any final words to say? Please have a seat. This question is now under consideration. As far as voting is concerned, the next quarter will be decided. We are now considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Information in Automated Systems. It's a new edition. Reported the deputy head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Anatoly Pavlovich. Please. I want all the deputies to know. A total of 35 deputies were enrolled. You and I used 2.5 rules on the first question. So let's do that. Now work very productively and do not overwhelm the Rules. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u145	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The need to prepare a bill to amend the Ukrainian Automated System Information Protection Act is due to the objective changes that have taken place in recent years in the country in the field of information and information technology development, as well as to the development of information infrastructure. With regard to the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Information in Automated Systems, we can be sure that at the time of its adoption, he was fully in line with the situation in the field of information protection. The main role of the law was to define strategic policies, develop and reform relations in the field of information protection in automated systems. A number of legally established fundamental regulations that are in full harmony with established world practice and have been determining for almost decades the basic orientations of state policy in the field of information protection in Ukraine. These fundamental positions have been tested in practice and remain valid. First of all, this is the definition of categories of information to be protected when processing in automated systems. Secondly, the law established the obligation to process information in automated systems that document the level of protection of information. The law also gave the authorized State authority the right to determine the requirements and rules for the protection of information, to establish an appropriate regulatory basis for the national level, and to exercise State control over the state of security of information in automated systems. With the development of information technology and its widespread use in all areas of society’s life, the problem of protecting information in automated systems is becoming increasingly important. The time has come to establish a series of regulations that regulate the order of conduct and the protection of information and have passed the test of time. On the other hand, the development of information technology and public information has led to many information and communication systems that are not fully disseminated by these standards and requirements of the law. The key feature of today's information and telecommunications systems is that they can be owned not by one, but by many owners, with the right of ownership of each of them being extended to one or more individual components of the information and telecommunications systems. The 1994 laws do not take into account the circumstances, and therefore there is no provision for regulating relationships between owners of different systems. In this way, objective considerations have been made to determine the need to introduce information into the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Information in Automated Systems of Certain Changes. The draft bill has brought about an ever - better state of affairs, which has a law in force today. It is based on legal standards and all the fundamental positions discussed above. In addition, at the legislative level, it is proposed to strengthen the establishment of integrated information and telecommunications systems in the government's information systems and information protection services, to assess protection through a state-wide expertise on comprehensive information protection systems, as well as procedures for licensing information protection activities. Compared with the provisions of the law in force, the bill has also introduced legal rules for regulating relations between owners of different information and telecommunications systems. Thus, the project covers the relationship of all subjects in the processing process. The rights of the authorized public authority in the field of technical and cryptographic protection of information and the manner in which State control over information protection is exercised are clarified. A number of changes and additions have been made to the list of terms and definitions, taking into account the modern development of information technology. The new law will have a positive impact on the formation and development of modern information technologies in the state, improve the efficiency of owners and users of information and telecommunications systems. This bill does not require additional costs from the State or local budgets. The proposed law was considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Science and Education. A decision has been made to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of this law to be adopted on a basis. The findings of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration are also positive. Please adopt the draft law as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u146	Okay. Will there be questions? Please sign up. Lighten up. Oily Boris Illich. Next nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u147	I'd like to ask you, Your Honor, how are we going to reconcile the protection of the information space with the software coming from Microsoft with the code? The thing is, when a storm in the Mirage Desert that the French sold to the Iraqis didn't take off, because the ship's systems were shut down. So where it is and what it does.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u148	Thank you for asking. Dear Boris Illich! During Operation Storm in the Desert, not only were there problems with airplanes, there were telecommunication systems, but the telephone switchers were shut down. So it's a good idea to ask a question. As for the substance of your question, let me put it this way. Microsoft is now running an international and large stock. The aim of this action is to provide access to those countries where Microsoft is planning to develop market activities, to open access codes for basic software products, namely Windows-2000, Windows. And so on. Some work is currently being done and the Security Service is taking part and I am, in particular, joining these processes. This question will be discussed next Sunday with a representative of Microsoft in the SND countries, which is why she will come to Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u149	Nijak Vladimir Kirilovich, next to Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u150	Dear Anatoly Pavlovich, how do you assess the state of the regulatory framework for the protection of information, what are the criteria for the level of protection of information and whether the draft law deals with the issue of safeguards for the protection of information? And what is the responsibility if there is no protection of information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u151	Thank you for asking. This is a very complex set of questions, and I'll try to answer it anyway. The state of the normative database for protection of information today can be estimated to be satisfactory, but insufficient. That's why I'm here. With regard to the criteria for the assessment of the state of protection, it is a set of special rules, standards, such as how the product is evaluated in the field of cryptographic information protection. An expert study is being carried out on the product of cryptographic protection of information involving experts, experts, and experts in cryptology. And the findings of these experts are the same estimate of the quality of this product. As far as responsibility is concerned, responsibility for the flow of information, unauthorized access is partly foreseen by various laws, already existing laws of Ukraine and these issues, also partially reflected in the text of the draft law that I report. Well, given that there's not enough time, I wouldn't be quoting these articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u152	That's enough. Nikolaienko, please, Stanislaw Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u153	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Anatoly Pavlovich. In fact, our Committee on Science and Education was looking at the draft Law on Protection of Information in Automated Systems, and we came to the conclusion that it must be adopted in a new edition. In this regard, I have two short questions. First. How do you feel about the comments made by the National Bank? You've seen, they have very serious comments. And the second question. Well, it's about, let's say, the information systems of some of our ministries, the departments, well, let's say, the Central Electoral Commission. So they did the President's election, the election to the Supreme Council in an uncertified system, and today, it's practical to say whether there's truth or not, for example, in my district, I know that the Socialist Party has been cut down somewhere, well, thousands of 6-7 votes at least, and it's impossible to prove anything. They are: but we have our own information there is a system and so on. What about this certification, responsibility, and so forth? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u154	Thank you for asking. Stanislaw Mikolaiovich, the first question regarding the comments made by the NBU. We then agreed on the committee that these issues were agreed upon in the process, if adopted in the first reading, in the process of redrafting the bill and going out for a second reading. There are also reasonable suggestions that I think are not very reflected in the draft law. This is about using non-certified systems. This new edition of protecting information in automated systems is designed to specify responsibility, produce, and offer control mechanisms for the use of certified systems themselves. If we use, say, certified systems, information and telecommunications systems in the electoral campaign process, then the state assumes responsibility for the validity of the information that is being processed by this system. Today and in previous elections, let's say these rules haven't worked yet, because there was no law. Now we're trying to formalize the state of the issues in this area. And then we're going to take responsibility for whoever's assigned, let's say, for the correctness of the use of such systems.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u155	Okay. Time's up. Anatoly Pavlovich, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u156	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u157	The Head of the Committee on Science and Education, Rodionov Mikhail Kuzmić, reports. Please, Mikhail Kuzmich. Let's get started.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u158	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs, who can even be listed by name and by the father of all, perhaps, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u159	No, it's gonna be a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u160	Long time, huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u162	I just want to add what our reporter didn't say. And maybe there'll be questions, and I'll try to answer them. Well, first of all, the chairman of the committee said that the committee had considered this bill at its meeting and recommended that the people's deputies accept it as a basis. It's the same thought and the main science and science management. I would like to add that the positive conclusions regarding the adoption of this bill in the first reading are also from the Committees of the Supreme Council on Construction, Transport, and Communications and National Defence and Security. What I want to say is not just this bill, but we have a number of laws on the legal regulation of relations in information space. So I want to remind the MPs that this is the first or one of the first laws, but the following laws also apply to the protection of information. We've already considered this, for example, the law on electronic digital signature, it's going to be about electronic documentation, about free software, about personal data protection. I just want to say that by discussing or introducing this bill, and the Committee on Science and Education, the working group, is now agreeing on all the bills that we are going to have to adopt in this sessionary room. And I think we can do this session because they're all already offered. And secondly, about the comments that are there. These observations can now be formulated in such a way that they relate to such provisions, first of all, to the rights and responsibilities of information managers and system administrators, the relationship between the above-mentioned entities and other entities, such as information and systems owners, and users of system information. It should be noted that on the following, if there is the will of the people’s deputies, this bill will be adopted in the first reading. The following should also be taken into account that some of the provisions of this law, if not in conflict, should be brought into conformity with other laws: the Ukrainian Information Protection Act, the Ukrainian Information Law, because this law states who has the right to information. And the last. What is now being proposed by this draft law is being or is being determined by the owner of the information. And it's mostly about the position where the owner of the information is a state. That is, the fact that there are articles here does not mean that all information owners must protect their information, whether state or non - state. If a natural or legal person determines any other means of protecting information, he or she has the right to decide for himself, but he or she will be responsible for its information as to how it is protected. I mean, if we vote in favour of this bill and the commission will be to the committee, then the committee will work on the second reading. And I think in this session we're going to adopt a series of laws that define the right field of information space.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u163	Will there be questions? Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u164	Thank you, Your Honor Hennaday Andriyovich. Mikhail Kuzmich, the question is. I wanted to give it to Anatolia Pavlovich, but he would. Yesterday or the day before -- I don't remember now -- here, in the Supreme Council Hall and in the media, there's widespread data that in Ukraine there's a powerful or a sect, or you want a Masonic bed of St. Stanislav. This is related to information. I've calculated roughly that per capita we have in Ukraine, 40 times more of these Masons than in the world. We're the ones who hold our first positions tightly. As far as I know, there are some security officers. So I would like to know that this bed is not a source of oversecret information from within Ukraine, we don't know where it can be used against the interests of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u165	The answer can only be that. Of course you can. But now we're looking at a bill that deals with technical, software tools. But to guarantee that if there are people who are not interested in preserving interests or secrets, it can always be. There's no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u166	Karmazin, please, Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u167	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Mikhail Kuzmich, I have a question. Please tell me, and how will this law, and how do you predict, protect the rights, including the Ukrainian national deputies, to information? Because now I'm faced with terrible things. We have a system even in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, you know the status law that we have access to all the information so in a state that functions and has a bearing on our activity. So even we have a Zajczuk-led apparatus for the secretive access of national MPs to the network, which is the Secretary of the Supreme Council. Imagine. And as we will then, when you propose in article 5, to define order in the Cabinet of Ministers, then you offer, more faithfully, the government offers an authorized central authority in the field of cryptographic and technical protection of information. How will we realize our potential, and how will this be ensured and recorded in this law today? Do you see the problem here or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u168	I'm telling you right now. And in the second reading, we will still have this law in place to respond to both the protection of the individual and even the national MP. But with regard to certain provisions, such as cryptographic subsections, this applies, as they say, not only to this bill, but also to what we will accept about the electronic digital signature, which is the legal basis to give. But, Yuri Anatolyovich, I think we're going to have a powerful working group there, and if we all have examples like that, we're going to make such a law that he's still in our room responding to interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u169	Andrew Schlell. School microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u170	Dear reporter! Of course, I also support that the law is needed somewhere, it's passed by our committee, we've looked at it, but here I have this question. There is this notion, the law stipulates, of co-responsibility in controlling the protection of automated information systems. Your opinion on this matter. And most of all. Right now we have problems with every fiscal law. Every law that protects something forbids it. So in the second reading, we have to predict all of those things so that we don't get another fiscal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u171	Okay. My answer to your question is yes. Our committee and the fact that we are involved in these laws in the field of information is of that opinion. All laws are needed primarily to protect the user, not the controlling person, but the user. That's the first one. It's different. With regard to responsibility. Yes, we have a point too. I think we're going to do this together and we're going to do this with the government more specifically. That is, the responsibility that is needed by the bodies that are now. The main function is control. But they should also be responsible for leaking information from their guilt. I mean, I think if you make any suggestions, we'll take them into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u172	Okay. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin Next Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u173	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Of course, the question that is being considered today is archival. It is important that the Law on Protection of Information in Automated Systems was adopted in 1994 and did not take into account today’s realities. We didn't know at the time what might happen is that all of a sudden, those networks that even the Supreme Council of Ukraine has spent over a dozen million dollars won't even allow national MPs. This has become possible today by directing the apparatus as it is today, and this is already a question of other investigations. And this is happening today in the Cabinet of Ministers and elsewhere. What's more, I went to the Ukrainian Security Service and I said, "Expensed money, spent development. Now let's put these developments into practice all over the country," no, we need money, budget organizations and so on. I sent a repeat request to Vladimir Ivanovich Radchenk. Perhaps they will read at least a second question to which I have asked for information. As far as protecting information is concerned, honourable national MPs. The question is too important to be discussed in a hasty manner. There are a lot of observations here. It says that the subjects of the relationship are information owners, information managers, system owners, and so on. It is not clear, though, what rights and responsibilities the information and system administrators have, or many uncertainties. [[It's an article of friction.]] It is not clear what happens between the administrators and the system administrators with the owners of the information and the system, and the users of the information on the system. We are talking about the broad powers we give again to the Cabinet of Ministers, that is, the government is submitting a project that requires it to set rules. Dear friends! Let's play by normal civilized rules, let's write each of you straight into this law. This is a reference to article 5 of the law. I have a serious point to make in article 14, "Approval of the authorized central authority of executive authority in the field of cryptographic and technical protection of information." Not only does he have the right to control the protection of information but he has the right to control human rights! Isn't it normal for schoolchildren to say, well, all the information is still being read. I'm on the phone with the National Deputy, and we're dropping information at an e-mail address, at my e-mail address, and it's on the appropriate service. This is a question for the management that he is carrying out. How an audition is done. People's deputies. It's a state crime! I'm warning you about that and you have to write it all down here in the law to make it impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u174	Finish up. Regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u175	I'm done. Dear National Deputies! We would need a law that would go into development and the protection of the Constitution, not a flagpole over all the others who want to achieve this, to be approved by the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u176	Mikola Tomenko, next one is Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u177	Mikola Tomenko. Dear colleagues! I have a few warnings, a few such principled strategic and other tactical. I'm not going to rest in our legislation that we're going in the way of solving specific problems initiated by corporate, let's say, institutions. I would like to remind you that today we have had a serious discussion on the Law on Telecommunications. You know he didn't go through, and we approved him on his first rereading. The Law on Telecommunications regulates about a third of the concepts, terms, and standards to which the new law or the law on protection of information appeals. Today, the committee is actually preparing a new edition of the Information Law, which is the basic law in this area. To my profound belief, in order to act conceptually and, in terms of codification, right, you have to get out first, because all of these laws were passed in almost the same years -- 1993, 1994, 1996, they're all morally and comprehensibly out of date. So you have to understand the terminological part of the Information Act, the Telecommunications Act, and then you have to go through the corporate things that are provided for by law. First warning. The second warning, of course, when I read it, I realized that this was a document written in the CDS, because there are a lot of things that I don't understand. For example, on behalf of the State, a number of authorities exercise control over the information protection system, which do not understand who forms, forms, and acts. I mean, I don't know what an authorized central executive body is in the field of cryptographic and technical information protection. I'm afraid the Cabinet of Ministers will issue positions and official instructions on the protection of the state secret of technical cryptographic protection. These are the principled things in part of the confidential information, the state secret exclusively to the Supreme Council, these are the principles that we have to regulate here, not the Cabinet of Ministers. The order of the organization and the exercise of State control is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers once again by official instructions. So the whole part that everyone here is talking about is outside the law. So to my deep conviction, we need to talk about what the authors of the laws, the new texts, the telecommunications. The authors of the laws in the new edition of information need to work together to agree on all the principles that are regulated by law. The idea of the law is right, it has to be done. But this must be done so that then we do not have ambiguity and different terms in the three laws. And finally, I have a request to our colleague -- to Hennady Andryovich -- to give me literally a minute after. We don't get to the two laws of our committee. One principle. And 2285 I have enough minutes to explain that we're subtracting two words, but in these two words, the fate of the First National and the district radio companies that we're blocking actually the earnings and the pay. I would explain for a minute, and we would have put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u178	There's no time for this anymore, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Maybe at the beginning of the plenary week. Please, Vladimir Kirilovich. And then the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, the bill can be conceptually supported in the first reading. It is necessary to regulate the protection of information in the context of information security. That's probably why the Security Service bill was being drafted, but it put its imprint on the bill, which was already mentioned by the MPs, and I share that view. Hence, it may be necessary to work together by involving professionals and others. In my opinion, there are four questions that need to be written more clearly in the bill in preparation for his second reading. The first question is the right of ownership of information and the right to information. That is the right of the owner, the protection of the owner, the protection of the user and the protection of the consumer. So when we write it out more clearly, then the law will work more effectively. The second question is the level of protection of information. What are the criteria of the level of protection, the regulatory framework for protection, the information protection mechanism and the protection structure? This whole set of questions is the second question. The third question is the problem of safeguards. The law must provide safeguards for the protection of information. And the fourth question is the responsibility for the sources of information, the responsibility for the defense, that the guarantees are not respected. I mean, I don't think this one law can exhaust the problem of responsibility, but at least here, because this is a framework law, you have to write this problem out. She's practically gone now. So if we're working on a bill, these four questions, I think it's going to play a positive role in providing information security in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u180	Thank you. The question is closed, the vote will take place on the day of the vote. Now, let's move on to the Miscellaneous. Sign up, please. 34 people's deputies. The word is given to Puzakov, the next Carmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u181	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Problem number one to date is the threat of war on the planet. On 4 February this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in support of the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, adopted a decree on the resolution of the conflict around Iraq by peaceful means. I appeal to all Ukrainian citizens, to whom the world is on the road, to support the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to leave on Saturday for the march of peace, which will be held on this day throughout the world. In Kiev, the march of peace will begin on 15 February at 13 hours 30 minutes from Majdan Independence. And now for the problem that is in the city of Kirovograd. The Kirovograd sewing factory "Zoryanka" is one of the oldest sewing factories in Ukraine, 80 years old. It orders for Ukraine and the most famous firms in Germany, England, and France. The exhausting, monotonous work of sewing has been misjudged. 70 - 80 percent of women in the factory form a family budget, and disproportionate utilities consume the work. Today, a team of this factory has approached me as a national deputy with a number of problems that cannot be solved without the intervention of the Prime Minister. The point is that the Open Shareholders' Association of the Kirovograd Swain factory Zoryanka, since 1969, has been ordering the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Civil Defence headquarters of the Soviet Union for rubber products: costumes, coats, which accounted for 55 percent of the power of the company. This range included 665 people with harmful working conditions. Unfortunately, with the collapse of the Soviet Union, these products were uselessly removed from production, and since April 1992, Starfish has not produced them. This forced them to completely change the profile of the company, putting more than 5 million dollars into its reconstruction. Today, the Star has 716 charming women with stable jobs, wages and so on. But there are a number of problems that simply cannot be solved. One of the global problems is the Zoreanka's compensation for the pension fund's long-term pension costs. And today 165 factory pensioners should receive such pensions. But Zorianka's spending for 2002 alone amounted to 278,8,000 dollars to pay off, unfortunately, at the same time, because of the disproportionate tax press, the insufferable utility payments, and as a result, the debt on pensions today at the company is over 140,000 dollars. The question is, What and what did these people blame for, working for the state, working in bad conditions, losing their health, and not receiving such a hard - earned pension at the right time? This problem has already been addressed to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy with a proposal for a perfect study of the state’s problem of pension compensation. Why, then, do the nations, as they say in the nation, not move their fingers to solve this problem? So I ask the Prime Minister to instruct the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to study the perfect problem and to make proposals for compensation of the state's pension benefits for the Zorianka enterprise in Kirovgrad and other enterprises of this kind. My statement is to be listed as a parliamentary request to Prime Minister Janukovič Viktor Fedorovich of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u182	Yuri Carmazin. Next Frost, Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u183	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Honorable National MPs, citizens of Ukraine! On February 5, 2003, President Kuchma of Ukraine took part in the work of thewolves College, where there were six national deputies. This is a separate question: on what basis are the six national deputies, what are they doing in this college, and what are they doing in the state's borders? It's a question to many law enforcement agencies I'm still addressing, and then I'll answer it later. In this college, the president said that the Antarctic industrial campaign, whose head was killed, had been falsely claimed to expose this crime from the mouth of the minister of the interior. In fact, the murder has not been solved. They didn't even get close to him until the discovery. And in order not to get too close, the president was informed, I quote, that he said that he had declared the income of 240,000 dollars, and they're not saying that it's a powerful fishing company. "I ask," says the president, "how many fish do they catch?" They say to me, "Many, but we don't know." How could that be, I don't know. This is the President's quote. I will answer the President of Ukraine from this high rostrum. Leonid Danilovich, if you would accept me, you would understand. Unfortunately, I can't make it to you for a year. And I understand that while Medvedchuk and his company are there, there's no one there who has any other opinions. I'm explaining that this company has paid 28 million 642,000 taxes in the last three years. She went fishing for the quantities that were in the time of the Soviet Union. It's actually amazing what's happening right now. I'm explaining to you, Mr. President, that this company is supplying fish and has put up 17 million 116 tons that have come here, including after the Ministry of Defense has ordered other ministries and so on. Dear friends! I want to draw your attention and attention to the people of Ukraine, and to the Attorney General of Ukraine, to what is now the decision to sell the Poltava oil company. 33 percent of Ukrainians who made only 60 million dollars in one year are estimated at $1 million. I demand that the investigation and prosecution of those who made this assessment and the officials of the State Property Fund be conducted. It's the cost of a tiny, tiny factory, and we're talking about such a serious company. Stop your illegal acts, stop the sale. And I'm talking to Mr. Piscoon. Stop these people who want to plunder all the property right now. Wait until the normal government comes and then we'll figure out how it's going to work. I also address Prime Minister Janukovič. There's been a nuisance. Stop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u184	Anatoly Frost. Next Gurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u185	People's MP Moroz, 83 constituency, Zaporez area, Communist faction. Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear colleagues! I am addressing all of us, the leadership of the state, with a question that is not just about the Zaporozhye region and other areas of Ukraine. This is a question raised by district, district council, village councils asking attention to the issue of providing heat and natural gas to consumers. The issue of the calculation of heat grid utilities for the use of energy is at present the most painful issue for heat-energy enterprises, which have been caused by the inadequacy of the current tariffs on the thermal energy of the actual cost of debt. The Supreme Council of Ukraine by decree of 26. In 122002, she proposed to the Ministry of Economics and European Integration of Ukraine NCRE and NAK Naftogaz, Ukraine, to set tariffs on natural gas and electricity for residential enterprises in part of the provision of services to the population, educational institutions, health care facilities, cultures and other social facilities burning from centralized heating networks at the level of tariffs set for the population, i.e. 145.83 per thousand cubic metres of gas, excluding VAT for transport. [[No. 390/4]] Such a price for natural gas certainly reduces the damage of heat - efficient enterprises without looking at existing tariffs for thermal energy. At the same time, NAK Naftogaz Ukraine, by order of 29.12.02, approves and introduces in Ukraine a new price precursor for natural gas from NAK Naftogaz's resources from Ukraine, according to which the price of gas for utilities is set at 189 dollars per thousand cubic metres of gas with a zero VAT rate without taking into account the cost of transporting gas. [[Number 503]] In fact, the price of gas increased by a VAT value of 31.5 dollars. Applying changes to the added-cost tax mechanism for natural gas sales operations, i.e. setting a zero tax rate, will result in the loss of the right to pay VAT to heat-energy companies when purchasing natural gas. This will significantly increase the payment of thermal energy companies by the tax on added cost to the budget. Thus, a free and thoughtless interpretation of the Supreme Council's ruling will greatly worsen the economy of utilities and may soon lead to their bankruptcy. The MPs are asking for an unwarranted increase in the price of natural gas, which generates heat energy, pays attention, leads to severe consequences. Heat-energy tariffs for the population and socio-economic areas will increase, the debt of the most vulnerable categories of consumers will increase for the natural gas used, the current calculations will decrease, the budgetary funding of all levels will increase for the maintenance of budgetary institutions, and the financial situation of utilities will deteriorate considerably. My statement, Gennady Andriyovich, is considered a parliamentary request to Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine and to the head of the government of Naftogaz Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u186	Okay, thanks. Gurov, next Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences. Walim Gurov, 32th constituency, Krivbass. I was forced to speak out of this rostrum by the emergency situation between mining enterprises and the builders serving them, my hometown of Krivbassa. The bottom line is this. In Krivbass territory, 5 mining companies, 5 GOCs and the Krivoroz ironworks are engaged in production and processing of iron ore. All enterprises work in a stable, profitable manner, have no debt to the budget, to the pension fund and to their employees. The working conditions are very tense, as they are now, but to pay tribute to the leaders of enterprises, labour groups and the mayors of the city, while we are in the process of meeting the challenge. And it would have been good, but there's a way of saying it.".. Some of the masters divided the workers into their own and strangers, especially the builders. So historically, there has been a growing and growing heavy industry here in Krivbass, because Krivbass is the mining backbone of our Ukraine and it is very important that all vertebrae work in a common rhythm, and many businesses are doing so. Well, you could say negative to the address. The GOC, which this year, I ask for attention, produced 12 and a half tons of concentrate, when even in the best times of the Soviet Union this was not done, and the quality was excellent. So we can work and we have to work there! There's 50 plus 1 state action, the rest is privatized. Not a penny of debt in front of his or anyone else's. This is true of Krivoroztal. They took the most abandoned. The HOC has already made an excellent mountain undertaking. Well done! What else do you think? And how they brought down Cyrus' red-headedness from the breach. This is the case with the triangular iron combination. They've drawn up a schedule and they're paying off, and HOC, practically, no debts. Now, South Africa is the best in the former enterprise that owes the builders about 20 million dollars. It's pay, it's the well-being of the builders themselves. Only 26 per cent of the company remained. It's like a war situation: the master changes like a glove. This situation can no longer be tolerated by the builders. So far, they're asking for at least a pay question, that's about five million. Several rallies have already taken place, and many of the rallyers have authorized me to speak from this rostrum. The situation might get out of hand, so I'm talking to the masters, not deciphering who they are, don't play with the fire, sit at the round table, you can always find points of contact. A bad world is better than a good war. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u188	Petrenko Volodymyr Sergiyovich, next to Basil Red.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u189	Vladimir Petrenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! On instructions from former employees of the Rezinotechnik sum enterprise, I declare the following address from this high rostrum to the People's Deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. “We refer to you, former employees of the Resinotechnics company, who have not received a full salary of more than 1,300 people in dismissal. Grieve. And we haven't been able to get it since 1996. All employees were forced to file claims with the registered court in Summa. The court ruled that claims were granted. But the train is there now. In 2000, from Rezintechnika, the local authorities illegally allocated the RTI plant and all debts, socio-culturalism, communications, buildings, a plant without technological equipment, and so on, left behind the Rezinotechnics plant. The bankruptcy procedure “Rezinotechniki” was then opened, as reported in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. The decision of the Court of Commerce of Sumo District of Rezinotechnica was subsequently declared bankrupt and appointed an auditor, an arbitral liquidator. Debts of employees of the payroll enterprise have moved to the distribution of assets. In more than a year, the asset distributor did nothing at all. Two-thirds of the factory's been destroyed. The equipment was removed, the equipment was cut off, placed in scrap metal. Our appeals to the regional and local administrations, the District and General Prosecutor's Office, the President's Administration, have not moved this issue from the ground. On the basis of the foregoing, we urge you, the people's deputies, to help us return the wages that we are now going and asking for as a charity." Currently, there are, by the way, dozens of signatures on this issue, this group is preparing for the protest, the blockade and so on by the administration, because there is no other way out. Therefore, I ask you, Sir Gennadi Andreevich, to consider the request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Janukovic, Victor Fedorovic, for action.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u190	Basil Red. Next Yeshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u191	Respectable compatriots! Everyone has become accustomed to the fact that the Ukrainian State has contributed to a loud celebration of the new anniversary of the liberation of cities and villages of Ukraine from German invaders. But somehow, as the Jubilee approaches, the dates of liberation from the German invaders of cities and villages of Volina in 42-44 years, hundreds of settlements, so-called Ukrainian authorities led by Kuchma as well as in the mouth of the water. I would like to remind you that the Ukrainian army was created in 1941 by Taras Borovets Bulbo, under the orders of the head of the government of the Ukrainian People's Republic. Andrew Levitsky, signed 1940. Volinska land is covered with the tombs of UPA fighters who died in the struggle against German invaders and their servants in Hungarian and Polish military formations. By the way, Poles made up 90 percent of the so - called auxiliary police, the gendarmerie, and performed only punitive functions, or burning villages in Ukraine. Hundreds and hundreds of such villages. So today, February 7, 60 years have passed since one of the first hundred Ukrainian rebel armies led by its commander, Gregory Perezinjak, Psevdo, in 1943. ‘ Dovbezko, after a long battle with the German stakes, won the district center of Volodymyrec, in the north of Volin, now the Plain region. During this military operation, Ukrainian insurgents liberated the town of Volodymyrtz, destroyed the German commandant and destroyed the German gendarmerie, killing Commander Vladimirz. In Volodymyrec, UPA was restored to Ukrainian power and a blue and yellow flag was erected, with 20 won. 65 blankets, ammunition and other things. Seven people fell from the enemy, including the gendarmerie commander, on our side one killed and two wounded. This battle became a crusade, entering a textbook in Ukraine’s history as one of the first UPA fights with German invaders. Shortly after the battle in Volodymyrec on February 22, 1943, during the fight for the liberation of the town of Vysec of the Dubrovicki district from the Germans, Gregory Peregynjak was subjected to the death of a hero beaten by German bullets. On the occasion of Motherland's Day, if under the word "fatherhood," the President of Ukraine means Ukraine, not the Soviet Union. And in connection with the 60th century of the first UPA fights with German invaders and the 6th anniversary of the death of a commander of one of the first UPA departments, a group of Ukrainian national deputies made an offer to the President: to duly honor the memory of the defender of Ukraine, Grigory Pregenyak, a fighter for the will and independence of Ukraine, and to give him the name Hero of Ukraine as a mortal man who fought for the liberation of Ukraine from German invaders. We also request that the 13th Army Corps be ordered to hold a military salute at the brotherly tomb of the rebel soldiers on February 22 during the celebration of the memory of the fallen UPA, Grigory Pregeyniak, on the brotherly grave of the UPA soldiers who died fighting German-Fashistic invaders near the town of Vysock Dubrovitzk district of the Plain region. And with the opportunity, I would like to invite the heads of government, the UPA veterans, all the patriots of February 9th to Volodymyrtz and February 22nd to Visatsk to properly honor the memory of the UPA heroes who fought unevenly for the liberation of Ukraine from the German-Fashistic invaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u192	Lechenko Volodymyr Aleksijovich. Next up is pidenko. Please follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u193	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. As you know, the President of Ukraine is almost constantly saying that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is preventing him from actively implementing reforms and considers the higher legislature to be responsible for a protracted, extremely deep crisis in the state. The same is true of the MPs and other members of the presidential vertical. Some who have joined the presidential majority have been despised as their satellites, others ignored by the opposition at all. In this regard, there is a persistent, gross, insolent violation by the authorities of the executive branch of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine. I give examples of the city of Chernigov, where the city head of Sokolov defiantly violates the above - mentioned law. On May 17, I sent him a parliamentary address on the problems of the City Committee of War Disabled Persons and the Armed Forces. So far, no response, not even an answer. By the way, I was already speaking on this matter at the session and asked the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to intervene. No action is taken. So the insolence continues. Another example. On January 18, this year, I met with the voters of the city of Chernigov. On January 9, he sent a letter to the Mesquiekon asking for accommodations and to announce the time and place of the election through the local media. Just two days before the meeting, I learned that a small hall in the city’s Culture House was being provided. The newspaper Chernigow Information, founded by the City Council, did not publish any announcements. And the New Chernigs, the founder of which is also the City Council, did so only for the fees paid by assistants and consultants. On the day of the meeting, the director of the city’s Culture House, at the advice of the Mesikwinka, also demanded a rental fee for the use of the hall. In addition, a 250 - person hall was unable to accommodate quite a number of voters. During this time, a healer spoke in a large 750 - seat room with hundreds of people. There are other examples of violations of legislation by the Montenegrin city authorities. There are plenty of such examples throughout Ukraine. I am deeply convinced that it is time for such insolent lawlessness to end. And this is under the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, please consider my statement to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u194	Thank you. Phydenko Stanislaw Semenovich. Next Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u195	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! Today, I want to break, in my opinion, an extremely important problem that depends on the quality of the solution of human destiny. I mean, the court system we created in this room, especially the judges' staff, the level of preparation of activities that depend on whether we have the rule of law or whether our electorate can feel that the concept of justice and really exists in our courts. So far, people are responding in their own way to questions with such a widespread formula: if you haven't tried our courts, you're a happy person. There are many reasons for such a mood. Imperfect laws, lack of proper funding for judges, and particularly weak judicial personnel. And our super-radic impolite and conveyor system of assigning them. There are many weak and inexperienced or immoral judges among them. It is they who compromise the high rank of judge and create in the people a terrible notion of the judicial system as corrupt to the impossible and unjust. I'm going to focus on a specific example. He has been a judge for a long time, and since 1997, he has been the head of the Shaka District Court of Volin County, Necha Vasil Mitrofanovic. He has recommended himself to be negative, immoral to the perversion of life, to be constantly drinking, to be court-martialed, to appear without a robe in his household, sports pants, and T - shirts. As the head of the court terrorizes the community, he arranges for the writing of anonymouss against unfavourable judges, and for the appointment of a civil servant, he appoints his own kinsmen in gross violation of the law. In an unsettling state, witnesses say that a motorcycle knocked a man to death and fled from the scene of the crime. The following quickly sought him out, filed a criminal case, and under strange circumstances, it was immediately closed. On June 27, 2001, the Public Prosecutor’s Office filed a criminal case in connection with the fictitious realization of the buildings on Lake Light, which Judge Necha sentenced and then set aside for no price on the grounds. For his low judicial qualifications and immoral acts, he was considered by a district - trained judges ’ commission, who brought him reproach. For the second time, my request was also tested, and a number of shortcomings were identified. On January 16, this year, the Council of Judges of Volina reviewed the material of the official review of his work and determined that he was in grave violation of article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges. The materials were transferred to the newly created Lviv Qualifications Committee of the Lviv District. What's scary is not only what Necha's head is creating, but unfortunately, I can't name other cases without time, but what he's getting out of his hands. During the drunkenness stage, he threatens anyone who bears witness to the truth against him, charges him, and claims that no one will do anything with him, for he too has reliable support in the Supreme Court, the High Council of Justice, the District Court, and the Prosecutor’s Office. I don't want to believe this, but under strange circumstances criminal cases are closing in on him. The Higher Council of Justice, where I have twice addressed and given compromising materials against the judge, has abolished his reprisal. For days, a drunken court chief claimed that he too had his own people in Lviv, and they would excuse him. Indeed, the Lviv District Qualifications Commission, which has just begun its work, will do so. Please, Hennaday Andriyovich, give a protocol commission to the head of the Supreme Court, the Attorney General, the head of the High Council of Justice to carry out an objective examination of the abuses and violations of the applicable laws committed by the head of the Necha court and to decide on the issue of bringing him into strict liability until his discharge. Please conduct a formal investigation into who and under what circumstances can objectively investigate the violation of Necha’s judicial activity. He arranged to close the criminal case against him. Please also put in control of my appeal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because this judge is preparing for us to approve him here for life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u196	Mikola Tomenko. Next Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u197	Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I would like to draw attention to a number of issues and problems that have been relevant this week, which I think we need to pay attention to. This was the case when we saw on another occasion during this week that our left hand did not know what was doing to us. Perhaps she knows and willfully does so. But such paradoxical things to talk about. This week, the President issued two papers. One document stating that he was concerned about the absence of social morality in the Ukrainian community of non-spirituality and the following day signed a veto to support the Ukrainian Book Study. You know, we voted twice in favour of the Ukrainian Bookstore, and the President is vetoing the simplified version again, and I don't know who wrote him these documents, where he found 700 million dollars. And it doesn't smell like 700 million bracelets because these are the minimum benefits that it takes to keep the Ukrainian book from dying at all. At the same time, a document stating that it protects spirituality and social morality. The president's talking about it. That free economic zones must be banned, that this is the greatest banditry and evil, while we understand very well that the first free economic zones he has personally signed by his decree. We know the situation that unfolded with regard to FATF when SDPU(o) and Leonid Krawchuk accused the opposition that we were blocking the adoption of bills for the laundering of dirty funds. In fact, everyone understands that the bill is important, but it is also important that, despite the bills, the money is washed away and stolen. And I looked at my colleagues Michael Kosiv and Gregory Kruczkova's response to the Attorney General concerning Leonid Kravczuk, where it was written in white: "as for Kravczuk's involvement in the census by President Blasco Kudukin and other persons of foreign currency, the investigation continues. The investigation examines the circumstances surrounding the opening of an account in the Swiss bank named Alexander, the son of Leonid Krawczuk. ” Of course, why Kravchuk and the SDPU against the Attorney General are collecting signatures. And then I don't understand what they have the moral right to say that we're not fighting the laundering of dirty money, but the SDPU and Leonid Kravchuk are fighting. With what? By opening accounts in a Swiss bank? [[Applause]] The next problem we have to worry about is the beginning of Russia's year, because we're all worried about the real Russian culture, not the culture that's being presented here. That's the first result of Russia's year. Dmitr's wife Tetjan Nazarov became a national artist of the Russian Federation. Well, if that's how Russia starts, then let's give President Ludmila Kuchmi's wife a nationalist of the Russian Federation, on television recently, she sings Russian, professionally enough, then we'll give all the wives of our leaders these titles, and then we'll end Russia's year in Ukraine, because otherwise it can't go on. So I think that when we analyze real actions and actual statements, we have to be real people. And once again, I'm reminding you of the offer of my fellow socialists. As a national MP, I won't be participating in the parliamentary hearings of the famine. If Dmitri Tobacco is a reporter, he doesn't have the moral right to talk about famine. This must be talked about by people who are respected in this society and who have earned the moral right to speak about this tragedy of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u198	Eugene Ivanovich Kirilchuk, next to Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u199	Eugene Kirilchuk, Faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Party of the Fatherland. Deputies! Dear voters! On January 15, at the parliamentary hearings and yesterday, when discussing the decisions on this parliamentary hearing, it was clear that all of this would probably remain a conversation, since the government did not give a proper assessment of the pseudo-reforms and did not offer anything malicious to the villagers. Reform is a replacement of the old form of farming for a new, more perfect, better, more flexible, more favourable for peasants. Today, we should ask the ideologists of these pseudoreforms, such as Mr. Galchinsky, Mr. Sauluk, Mr. Zubec, and many others, what they did, what they did. Who, then, benefited from living in a Ukrainian village? You're the one who's been preparing, sending President Kuchmi those impeccable drafts, signing orders. It was you who destroyed, devastated the fields and farms, picked up the peasants, barbaricly destroyed the social infrastructure of the village, medical institutions, schools, cultural institutions. You did everything you could to destroy communication with the village, both transport, and television, and radio, and electricity. The absurdity of pseudoreform always requires the answer to just one question: Who benefits from this? And it's only convenient for those who have created a system to take food from farmers for a penny and profit billions from it. For 25-30 percent of the cost of harvesting grain, livestock, milk, meat, sunflower, sugar barrels, and peasants selling fuel - oil materials, electricity, plant protection products, gingerbread, technology, and so on. In the government's 2003 government budget, only 1.7 billion are proposed. A bracelet, but from this amount directly to a peasant, the producer receives a copy. In general, the village is financed on a residual basis. In 2001, the budget was implemented by 90 percent and the village was funded by only 40-70 individual articles. In 2002, only 20 to 30 percent of investment in rural objects was funded. What is happening in the country today can be said for a long time. But whether this talk ends with positive disruptions or not, we will break away by adopting any palatative measures that will not improve the situation in any way. The enemy on a foreign earth does not create what our regime has made on its own land. The position of the Julia Timoshenko bloc is as follows. First, to return to the peasants who had been stolen from them, to restore their fate from international unifications. The other one. Set a fair price policy for peasants. It should be fixed on the production of plants and animals. And it's no less worth it. Thirdly, peasants should buy everything at prices for those who reach the heavens and those who are accessible. Credit must be accessible and not above inflation. I'm done. The New Earth Codex does little to make matters worse. We are now calling on all deputies to practically rework it to become a proper land constitution, not a harmful, untraceable paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u200	Michael Pavlovsky. The next Lukyanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u201	Pavlovski, the faction of the block of Julia Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland, Hmelnicki. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to raise two questions today so you can understand what's going on in our country. I want to draw attention to the fact that yesterday the Constitutional Court made a fair democratic decision. Now you can all sue the prosecution's decision if it arouses a criminal case against you and you think it's illegal. Where did this decision come from? The point is that the court of first instance found all the charges of the Attorney General’s Office against Julia Timoshenko, that is, the violation of the criminal case itself illegal. That's why the Attorney General's Office, in order to replace this, appealed to the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court made a fair decision. I want you to know who took the stand in the Constitutional Court against this, that is, who was behind the dictatorship: the representative of President Medvedchuk's Administration, the representative of the BSB, the Ministry, the Attorney-General -- who is the one who claims dictatorship and fights against his own people. Well, the second is how we can improve our lives, my radio listeners. The thing is, we're going to be poor as long as we don't have high technology, and in particular, we're not going to support a sector like aviation. And the air force today. I'm going to name why aviation, because agriculture for peasants is causing damage under today's conditions, profitability is zero. Well, the speculators around that 100 percent. And the production, the sale of airplanes, the sale of helicopters, is 500 percent profitable. Can we make a living? We can, but today, as stated in the President's 2000 letter to the Supreme Council, we're not going there. That's not where we're going in all directions. In military aviation, the whole world is betting on aviation, we're destroying it, Israel has more than 300 helicopters, France has about a thousand, one U.S. division is 300 helicopters, and in Ukraine there are 267, and the President is reforming the army to reduce to 120. One Sierra Leone helicopter earns enough money to repair all the helicopters, but this money is not given to those who earn it and someone else is taking it away. So the problem is that it's military. Civilians are getting worse. We have the only airline in Ukraine. So today, a parliamentary request was put to the vote and an answer from the Attorney General's Office on this point was added that Borispilla Airport is being improperly guarded by airlines, staffed, stolen state property on a particularly large scale. And the government is helping to destroy this airline for the benefit of the private. Because you know that. That's why. I've got another one. So we come out of the fact that we have to develop this sector because Ukraine, which exports grain, metal, raw materials should be 20 times as poor as the one that binds it to the finished product that makes cars, airplanes. [[I'll tell you from the science, too, from the world experience.]] So, Ukraine has everything it needs. What do we need to do to make this normal? We must fight this regime, we must support the All-Ukrainian Assembly of Deputies of All Levels of March 1, which will be before the All-Ukrainian Action "Rise, Ukraine!" March 9th, where we have to fight for our democratic rights, for the development of high technology, so that we are rich, so that we have a chance all of us together, with young people, to stay here, in Ukraine. So we urge you: fight for your future, support the action "Rise, Ukraine!"! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u202	Levko Grigorovich Lukyanenko Next Tooth.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u203	Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Our Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, gave a very good talk at the opening of the third session of the Supreme Council. And he said, here are some deputies going abroad, and they're talking about all the flaws, and the misery, and all the black stuff that's in Ukraine, they're embarrassing Ukraine. It's really very bad. And when I was an ambassador in Canada, I was very careful not to embarrass our Fatherland. But let's look at our own Parliament. For it is possible and necessary not to disgrace Ukraine throughout the world, but it is necessary to look at ourselves and what we ourselves are. Parliament's work, of course, and its effectiveness depends on the organization of the work of Parliament itself, and on the experience of the legislators themselves. But largely, to a large extent, it depends on the ideal state of Parliament itself. I'm not saying that there should be people in Parliament who belong to one political party. Not at all. But we're basically different in the matter of statehood. But we don't have the same attitude about statehood. We have people who don't recognize the symbolism of an independent Ukraine, they wear red flags. We have people who do not recognize the national language and speak from this highest rostrum of Ukrainian in a foreign language. We have a discrepancy in the underlying problems, not just in something secondary. Now look, and that's basically why I went out on this rostrum. The question of the UN-OPA's recognition as a warring party has already been put to the vote twice. And the second question about the assessment and activity of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists in the Ukrainian Insurgency Army. Each time, about 150 deputies failed. So one third of the deputies are in patriotic positions, and two thirds are in what position are they standing? Because without acknowledging the UN-OPA's struggle for Ukraine's independence, they do not recognize the whole struggle that has been waged for Ukraine's independence since 1920. Ukraine, the glory of God, has not only been born, you know, traitors and perverts, it has given birth to enough heroes who have gone and fought for independence against the occupation of Communist Bolshevik, German, and any other occupation. Since the 1920s, Ukraine has been covered by hundreds of armed forces under the leadership of the talented Ottomans and has fought against the Bolshevik occupation. After that, the fight took other forms during World War II, and after 10 years before the year 56, there was a fight under the leadership of UN UPA for Ukraine's independence. It's without any help from abroad. And this fight not to admit it means not to recognize everyone who has been fighting for Ukraine's independence since the 1920s. So how can we be in this Parliament, represent the legislative body of an independent Ukraine, and not recognize those who fought for independence. This means continuing the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, continuing our status as a colonial, not an independent Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u204	Teeth, please. The next school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u205	Valentin Zubov, Julia Timoshenko Block faction, Batkivščina Party. Dear Gennady Andreevich! Dear colleagues! Respectable radio audiences! It is well known that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been working actively for over a month to improve legislation on money-laundering. And that's right. But the question is, "When are we going to start a real fight against the real dirty things that are happening in the Supreme Council Hall? What do I mean? Every popular MP, through the electoral campaign, swore to his constituents, promised the people of Ukraine that he would be here, in this room, actively working to get the country out of a terrible socio-economic crisis. But what is the result? It began with the distribution by committee. National Security and Defence Committee, a committee that addresses strategic issues of development of the army, national defence, i.e. strategic issues that have great national security and defence implications. The number of members of the Committee is 13. The Committee on Budgets is the Committee that decides on budgeting issues, and the number of members of the Committee is 39. The question is, where does this imbalance come from? What are the interests here? Public interests or purely personal interests? Pursuing a budget committee means only one thing: People's deputies, those who go there so actively, see the main task of being closer to the budget and being more able to touch it. I hold a meeting with the management of the Republic Customs Service on the day, as I lead the legislative subcommittee of the Security Service, intelligence and counter-intelligence agencies, customs and border authorities. And I'm finding out a remarkable painting. It turns out that six people's deputies, who are not customs experts, are members of the Customs Service College, and the customs officers themselves tell me, "They don't come here to improve the customs service. And each of them, directly to the border to the east or west, provides the credentials of a member of the panel, says: "Be kind, miss 15 trucks from Russia. It's mine. Please, let 18 trucks out of the car. I'm a member of the college." Thus, until we are in this room in order and, Gennadi Andreevich, our faction demands that the leadership of the Supreme Council carefully examine this issue and immediately submit to the Prime Minister of the country a request for resignation in order to withdraw all the people's deputies who are members of the panel, and, by the way, in the GNAU the same thing, and in the GNAU do not go in order to improve the tax policy, but in order to close the readouts, readouts, VAT returns and so on. Corruption begins here. And until we get rid of it, that's all there is to it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u206	Andrew Schlell. Next solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that in this room we rarely see our distinguished Chevaliers, the cavalry of various Orders there and so forth, they are able to get sword laid on their shoulders, they are able to become Masons, but they are not able to work in this sense in the Supreme Council. The same is true of most of the leadership of the power structures, which have long become sewing and chivalrous ladies depending on sex. Now, specifically, Chevalism and cavalry give birth to a violation of legislation in places where there is a violent violation of legislation on the ground. In particular, the head of the Bródí district government of the Lviv district of Petrushka, by issuing order No. 270 on the establishment of property rights for the immovable property of the sanatorium and the youth resort, which is a separate legal person and on which, by law, there can be no title to property as an object of immovable property, that is, it makes the floor of the documents. He doesn't care about anything, he does it and all, looking at how easy it is for his older colleagues to do it: the shevalier and the cavalry ladies. Moreover, Petrushka obliges Zoločevské Mbti, which is managed by Sembay, to conduct a state registration of ownership rights for the above-mentioned objects of the SPC "Emnosty". Such an order was issued for the care of such a man as Gontaryk, who was appointed to the position of Director of the SCC "Yoność" temporarily for a period of 1.06 for three months, that is, before he could, he had the right to sign similar documents. The head of the state administration of Petrushka was informed about who held the position of director of the SCC "Youngness", who actually owns 15 houses in the village of Lagoda, because he was presented with the right to establish documents: a contract, an act of ownership and so on. Nevertheless, Petrushka, knowing that the owners of these houses are the stateless international fund of St. Mary, the charity fund, sells these 15 houses and property rights to the Brodov administration, that is, he takes into the fund and hands over to the government administration. In my opinion, Petrushka’s actions are the abuse of power and service, as well as the excess of authority and service powers, since property rights are inviolable under the Constitution. Thus, the SPC's provost, and Petrushka, along with the head of the MBTI and other officials in the region, were, fictitiously, documents and property rights handed over illegally. And I want my address to be an official appeal to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine to give me an answer. If an offender misuses a position of service, he may have a position of service, on what grounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u208	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, next to Malinovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u209	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Kyiv region Dear colleagues! As a national deputy of Ukraine, my consulting assistant, Vasilko Ivan Kuzmovich, who lives in the city of Yagotin Kyiv district, has stated that the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the city of Yagotin are committing illegal acts, namely, with the assignment of a district investigative officer of the Yagotin Police Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine calling for dozens of people from the city to the Paradise Department and even visits the house and conducts interrogations. In particular, on December 11, an elderly man, retired Belbas Ivan Petrovich, was questioned. And I asked for clarification, and I addressed Zrubenko Vasil Fedorovich, the head of the Department of Internal Affairs in the Kyiv region, first of all, on what basis are the inhabitants of Yagotin being questioned? And the second. Why was Belbas interviewed among others, and what are the criteria under which people are taken for questioning? And I've got a very interesting answer: we're informing you that the investigating branch of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kyiv region is responsible for the commission of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in criminal matters number 50-3165/152, violated by the signs of the crime provided for in article 279 of the third Criminal Code, and that separate investigations are being carried out in the area of Kiev, during which there was a need for interrogations by residents of the city of Yahotin Kyiv district. And yet, all the materials are directed to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The question is, What political provoker pointed his finger at the very specific people who are being challenged by all the investigative masters of preoccupation? So I very much ask you, Hennady Andriyovich, this statement of mine is considered to be a parliamentary request to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, so that they can finally sort it out and report to me as the National Deputy of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this issue, which is what is actually going on there. And that moment that I have left, I ask you to give the National Deputy of Ukraine Grzezhev Anatoly Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u210	Please, Anatoly Dmitrovitch Grzezhev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, respected by Gennadi Andreevich, distinguished voters. Anatoly Grázev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Two questions. First. There has been a lot of information recently about the death of winter grains. The most contradictory data are between 30 and 60 per cent of the areas that have been lost. As a specialist, I can clearly say that if that is true, there are four million left. The winter hectares, that's trouble. In addition, distress threatens real hunger. This cannot be allowed under any circumstances. Urgent action is needed, for in less than a month, a seed campaign will begin. In this regard, I would ask you, Gennadi Andreevich, on behalf of the Supreme Council, to contact the Government to inform us of the true situation of the matter. In addition, research by an independent expert should be commissioned, since the current so-called agricultural reformers would lie or write everything down on the weather to justify their unheard-of destructive action. And secondly, while all of us share political, ideological and other views, we all come together in one way: our land is a priceless treasure to be looked after and protected. Regrettably, these concepts are no longer the case. And the attitude towards land and society as a whole and its institutions are, to say the least, disrespectful. Pick up agricultural land. Many soils view erosion and degradation as a national disaster. It would appear that urgent action must be taken. What is really going on? No action is taken, we do not even know the state of the matter. Therefore, the issue of land conservation, respected by Gennady Andreević, is very important because it is fateful, I repeat, fateful for Ukraine and not only for our generation but also for our descendants. This must always guide us. Everyone knows the position of socialists on this issue and our leader, Frost, is deeply public and promising. But we do not represent the current state of the land. Therefore, I ask that the Government be instructed, on behalf of the Supreme Council, to conduct an integrated inventory of the land fund to know what is being done. Again, I repeat, this should be entrusted to independent experts, because those reformers who have committed violence against the land, again, will do the same and society will not know the true state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, we started "Rizzne" 10 minutes later, so let's say the word is Malinowski. Let's respect each other, MP, shorten up, please, so that you can say as much as possible. Please, Orzhachowski, while Malinowski is preparing. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u213	Anatoly Orazahovsky, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u214	Just shorten up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u215	Dear Head, colleagues, voters. During my parliamentary vacations, I was able to visit six areas of Hersonschi, meet with the deputy assets of Scadovian, Holocaust, Bilozer and Colonic District Councils, visit, meet a number of production teams, and meet more than one and a half thousand voters. Impression: People’s lives are terrible. The functioning of executive and self-governance bodies is far from the desired because of the collapse of agriculture, the bankruptcy of many industrial enterprises, the lack of proper funding for delegated powers. In other words, hungry, cold, and drinking water are nowhere to be found. The last is not news to the rural population, because energy is already used to experiments on rural communities and their inhabitants. In support of these words, let me introduce you to the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the Herson District Council on the level of social protection of residents of rural areas adopted at the fifth session of the District Council on 17 January of this year. It says: "article 6 of the Ukrainian Drinking Water and Drinking Water Act provides for a ban on the exclusion of water supplies from electricity supply systems. At the same time, there are legislation that allows energy-efficient organizations to decontaminate water supplies. The reason is not the amount of the debt for electricity consumption, but the application of a fivefold increase in the tariff rate to the amount of electricity consumed as a limit. [[Article 26 of the Ukrainian Electricity Act]] That is how large amounts of debt for electricity consumption arise, giving energy - efficient companies the right to turn off water supplies, creating conditions for the destruction of water networks, the deterioration of sanitation, and, as a result, social tensions among the population. Members of the Herson District Council are concerned about the review of valid legal acts with regard to the cancellation of the five-fold difference in actual consumption and the contractual amount of electricity provided that electricity consumption is not paid in time and is expected to be understood and supported. Similarly, the heads of many national councils, such as the New Kiev Rural, Brillian Administration, the Holocaust Reservoir, and the City of Scadovian, addressed me. The second problem came to me after a visit to Borislavsk. Okay. The second problem came to me after attending Borislav’s pedagogical school. It will require effective action by state and regional authorities. It is the need to computerize a school. The educational community, the local authorities of the city, are begging for help in acquiring a computer class, a set according to the concept of informing public educational institutions. The teaching school is called the first level of accreditation, which enables full secondary education to be achieved at the same time. Unfortunately, the existing computer, Hennaday Andriyovich, is a rural problem. This is a pedagogical problem. Unfortunately, the existing computer does not allow for the full implementation and implementation of the above government document. In Borislav Pedagogical School 87 percent of students in the rural area of Hersonian. This is the only educational facility in the area where teachers of primary classes and preschool teachers are trained, which is guaranteed to return to rural schools and kindergartens for further training and training of an adult generation, which should be freely oriented in the information space of the modern and future. In conclusion, on the basis of the above, please consider my statement to the Prime Minister of Ukraine Yanukovic Viktor Fedorovich, the corresponding ministries of profile. And I think that if politicians and civil servants really think about the state, the professionalism of the frame, the growing generation, they will definitely respond positively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u216	Tell me you understand that you have each other. Malinowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u217	Alexei Malinowski, a faction of socialists. Dear colleagues! I can see that we sometimes forget the little things because of the big problems. I was assigned by a faction of socialists to work in the Sumskie district of small villages, but once powerful villages such as Ribalské, Sonjashne, Grun, Mala Pavlovka. What can I tell you, Ohtyr district? 2/3 of oil production from this region is going to Ukraine. People seemed to have to live, as in Kuwait or Saudi Arabia, at least decently. What do we see? And we see a terrible painting. First. Simple names, young people: Bakanov Andrew, Cassian Irina, work in the village for three and a half years, cannot get a pie of land. The village of Banduri. Take a kilometer of gasification. Nine years. Gasification, the oil-disposed country, cannot carry out this gasification. The village of Ribalska. The village council is addressed by the woman Ivah Maria Ivanovna, a 15 - year - old child paralyzed by cerebral palsy lies bedridden, completely unresponsive. At the same time, we see, the village of Ribalska, a limited rural society, Zhulidz Viktor Andriyovich, director of the association for two and a half years, not counted with people for renting pies. And here we are, the head of the silrada of Savkov Igor Mikolaiovich, the head of the silrada, his wife is the founder of the same association. So it's not corruption, is it? What should we do in this situation? And Mr. Szczerbán, head, governor, as he calls himself, publishes from such beautiful magazines as he and his wife and so on and so forth. I mean, the elite is walking, and people are dying. Moreover, what is the problem? Today, no one wants to rent land in these regions, no one wants to rent land. What will these people live on? And what's interesting? Young people live in these places, not as we say, quite old, young. The problem. Another question. What should we do in this situation? It would seem that a self - control territory is, is a law on local self - rule. And what does the governor do? In Suma, he destroyed power, actually, and he goes to Ohtika, the head of the city of Ohtyrka. Why? Because she is not a proponent of his ideas, she is not a proponent of the oil spill in Ukraine. So, if you'll excuse me, doesn't the Attorney General see that? There you go. So Mr. Scrooge doesn't know that? He knows. And the head of the administration, his name is Pankup. He's doing the same thing -- he runs away from people, he refuses to accept them, and it's just -- he's making fun of them. All right. There was a bus in these areas. The bus is a bus. People, people, No, the people's route was taken off on Saturday. I'm already talking about the benefits to veterans. That's it. The Suman region. So the way out today is one of these people, or I don't know, people who have faces. As It's like our President should just be driven out of this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u218	Stepan Cloud. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u219	Cloud, block of Julia Timoshenko. Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today, some of the judges who are present in this rostrum have been disgraced. I want to warn you of the terrible danger that threatens the property of civil political rights for all Ukrainian citizens, and this threat is that our judicial system can become a repressive organ of Medvedic oligarchic dictatorship. And this threat comes from the situation in which the High Council of Justice today is one of the most important constitutional bodies that has the function of forming a judicial branch of power. Today, the Supreme Council of Justice, most of its members, are demonstrating a brutal, cynical violation of the law. How? And what he takes against the law on the Supreme Council of Justice and the Constitution of Ukraine is the decision to elect the High Council of Justice of the People's Deputy Kiwalov, who has no right to hold the head office of this extremely important body on the basis of public principles. And that's clearly what the law says. And as a result of such lawlessness and the conduct of the members of the High Council of Justice, we do not need to go far. On February 5, this year, the High Council of Justice takes a shameful, unjust decision on a political order -- an attempt to deal with Judge Vasilenko, who dared to commit a criminal case based on the abuse of our President, against President Kuchma. And the High Council of Justice violated the question of making a motion for the dismissal of Judge Vasilek from the office of Judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal. I call on all citizens, especially the legal part of our society, the judiciary, to show their civil courage and not to allow the establishment of a final and adhering dictatorship of criminal oligarchy in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u220	I'd like to give you some information regarding Deputy Kiwalov. For this reason, there is a judgment of a court that admitted that. And he needs to be accused in accordance with the law. We have to charge Stepan Ilkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u221	The decision was made practically in opaque mode.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u222	Okay. From the place, please, Slabenko, Sergey Slabenko. Slabenko's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, there are not many of us left here, but I would like to point out that before the beginning of today's working day, I have proposed that we go back to the question of voting, though, for the "Variance" to be considered in perhaps a longer period of time, because 33 national deputies today, at least, have signed up for the speech. And that would allow this question to be resolved or accepted by another mechanism, perhaps a computer selection of the reselection, if it was possible to establish a different order of the queue. That's why I won't be speaking, I understand that I can't perform today, time will not be enough. I would like to refer my statement to the presidency and consider it a parliamentary request in accordance with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u224	Okay, Sergey Ivanovich. With regard to the "Variance" order, we need to refer you to the Regulatory Committee, so that they can comment on this. Please, Michael Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u225	Thank you. Michael Dobkin, "Democratic Initiatives". Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Dear Chairman! Many today show great interest in the Supreme Council of Justice. As early as May, the Group of People's Deputies of the Kharkiv Region requested the High Council of Justice on gross violations of justice by the Vice-President of the Court of Appeal of the Harkov district of Borodin Mikhailovich. A member of the Supreme Council of Justice, a respected professor, a doctor of the legal sciences of Selivan completed this examination. All facts concerning Judge Borodin have been confirmed. The Public Prosecutor's Office has instituted criminal proceedings, including for falsification of the documents of Borodin personally, and for overstepping his judicial authority. In the case of Borodin, criminal proceedings have been instituted for the corruption of the Kharkiv Prosecutor's Office. That's the kind of guy we have in Harrick's head of justice. I will not tire you, people's deputies, of the judicial tricks of these two dream judges to escape the responsibility of the High Council of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office, to speak only of one important circumstance from this high rostrum. People's deputies, Stepan Cloud, apparently well-known to Judge Borodin, decided to intervene in the verification of our MP's request and, in December, publicly announced Professor Selivanov's violation of the oath. I quote: “For voting in favour of an illegal decision to recognize Mr. Kiwalov as President of the Supreme Council of Justice”, and then accused Selivanov and Kiwalov of being persecuted by Borodin for allegedly illegal adoption. Is there a question that the distinguished MEP of the Cloud was present in a closed vote in the constitutional body? If not, how does he know how the Minister of Justice, the Attorney-General, Selivanov and other respected members of the Council of Justice voted? I emphasize this in order to be heard by the people's deputies and judges in the Kharkiv region. I'm done, half-minutes. The examination of the gravest violations by Judge Borodinim has been completed and all material will be considered at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Justice. We strongly insist on that. To the great honor of the city of Harkov and Kharkiv district, they have completely exposed the perverse judge of Borodin. Regrettably, National Deputy Stepan Hmara has become a strong patron of this idiosyncratic judge by sending his requests to the Public Prosecutor's Office. It's working. That Borodin is creating a judicial will and that the distinguished people's MP of the Cloud has found a way to protect such a one, with the permission to say that the judge who annuls the election is personally falsifying the documents in court and is still mocking the prosecutor's office. The Group of People's Deputies of Ukraine, our faction will not allow members of the Supreme Council of Justice to be prosecuted for their fair stand and for voting for the results of the verification of our parliamentary request. Once again, we reaffirm and affirm that the Kharkovinian MP of the Cloud has a personal interest in Judge Borodin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u226	Member of the Cloud, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u227	Dear National MPs, just before the national deputy Dobkin had an evil lie against me. I would like to state to all Ukraine that I have never before seen Kharkiv judges, none other than Borodin. And my question to the MP is not entirely about Borodin. I sent a request to the Attorney General's Office to support him in documenting the falsification of documents by some members of the High Council of Justice. Deputy Dobkin, interested in his harkov affairs, participates in one side of the debates and certain clans. And I'm asking everyone to remember that. I will never allow my honor and dignity to be tarnished even by a MP who thinks he is strong, and we know where he gained power and where he came from, the kind of Dobkin he is.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u228	You don't have to argue, you don't have to do this. You don't have to do this to each other! Don't name names. Two minutes is not possible under the Rules. Half a minute, please, Dobkin's microphone. Let's continue our time, maybe by evening, by 8:00.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u229	Dear colleague, I didn't mean to offend you in any way. I brought the facts. I can confirm my words in writing. The documents provided to you by the members of the Supreme for the sake of justice gave you the wrong documents, and your parliamentary request was unfortunately based on the wrong documents. With regard to any charges against me in favour of someone's clan interests, there is a Rules of Procedure, please address them, and if not, I will bring you to trial, and you will prove all your inauspicious words in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-07-m0.u230	All right, all right, all right. Dear colleagues, distinguished national deputies, today’s meeting of the Supreme Council I declare closed. The next plenary meeting will take place on February 11th at 10 a.m. Good-bye.
