ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I would like to ask the distinguished national deputies who wish to take up their jobs and prepare for their registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:14]] Registered -426 There were 426 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Bondar Vladimir Nalkovic. Let us greet him with our birthday, wish him his creative success, and his health. In line with the rules of procedure today, the Supreme Council of Decisions. You have a schedule. What will be the suggestions? Dear colleagues, don't shout. Dear colleagues. Yeah, yeah. Wait, don't tell me who to give the word to. Let's switch procedures. I see you need time, 10 minutes out of the procedure, sign up, please. Everybody take your seats, please. On the board, please. Mikola Tomenko. Take it easy. Anyone who's gonna sign up, he's gonna do it. Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u3	I can't hear you. Please tell someone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u4	Dear fellow national MPs! Since the political reform initiated by President Kuchma is effectively halted and the commitments of the President’s Administration regarding the adoption of the electoral law on a proportionate basis have not been fulfilled. All those desiring a real political reform today should start a working day by voting on the electoral law. I would like this position to be supported by a hall, and when we look into each other's eyes, we will see who wants political reform in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u5	Now it's clear who made the deal. Shurma Games, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u6	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I'm impressed by the activity of the polyglot, the previous speaker, he's very active for two days in the rostrum, but, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, start the session. And if someone locks up, you call those people who block the session, because it turns out that we're actually shutting down the job at all. And they are all very concerned that the people of Ukraine know who wants to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u7	Thank you. Dear colleague, I agree with you completely, but we agreed 10 minutes out of the procedure and with the motivation to exchange, we will continue to determine. Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u8	Please give the floor to the leader of the Simonek faction Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u9	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u11	May I have your attention, distinguished national deputies?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u13	What, it's not working? All right, then let Matvienkov do it, and then when. Does it work?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u14	Simonenko, The Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich!Oh, my God! You and I are witnesses that there is a lot of talk going on around the constitutional, and we Communists think that there is a need for political reform in the state. Everyone calls, but the same presidential forces that initiated or turned to the opposition forces for the sake of continuing political reform have blocked political reform and that is obviously already. We Communists see that political reform will only begin when changes are made with regard to the election law, which will allow voters to choose the future of Ukraine, a programme of specific political parties. And a specific responsibility for Ukraine’s future will be placed on certain political forces. So the faction of Communists also insists that today, in the first place, the electoral law must be considered, determined to continue to move in the sense that this is how we started political reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u15	Thank you. Sergey Matvienkov, European Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u16	55th Precinct, Mr. Mariupol. Dear fellow Members, I understand your desire, I have in mind the party forces, the parties to get rid of the electorate, the people who can control the MP and ask him for the specific work he has done. I understand your desire to hold elections at party meetings and party conferences. And thus create normal conditions for the work of the deputy corps. I understand your desire to establish a parliament of the city of Kiev so as not to go outside the city of Kiev. But we have an agenda. Let's work and think about the same voters you've already chosen. There are many issues of wickedness that require resolution. Therefore, let us sit down, calm down, start working, come to this political reform, we will come to this political reform, we will come to this electoral law and we will vote as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u17	Stepan Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u18	Please give the word to Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u19	Alexander Turchinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u20	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear colleagues! Our faction requires first to unlock political reform and first to consider the law on a proportional system and get a positive vote. And the second, more important question. The danger of losing Ukraine’s territory remains. We now demand that President Kuchma of Ukraine be summoned here, and that he answer from the rostrum: either he will defend the territory of Ukraine, perform his duties, or he will resign right here in the rostrum. This is our request, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. And we ask the President to come to the Supreme Council today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u21	Alexander Moroz, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u22	Honorable MPs and radio listeners. I'm helping Igor Shurma's desire to tell you who's blocking. It blocks the meetings of the Supreme Council of Opposition, including the Socialist Party of Ukraine. We demand that people stop lying about political reform and start the work that is absolutely necessary. Because there will be no reform -- it will never change to a positive life in Ukraine, I never -- I confirm that. And so not just to include, to start with the question of the Electoral Law, but to adopt the Electoral Law in the first reading, and then you can work on it. Enough to do or work for the Supreme Council under the leadership of the President, under the leadership of the President's Administration! We have the trust of society, the trust of the people, and we need to get out of those powers that are defined by the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u23	Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u24	Mikhailo Kosov, Reform and Order Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to remind you that you have made a great contribution to historical science by defining today's period in Ukraine's history as the Leonid Kuchma era. In your speech then, at the opening of the session, you also defined the basic parameters of this era: this is the formation of a corrupt, mafia, oligarchic clan to put an end to this clan and domination, and to the end of this era, let's take the next step: to bring the daily draft of the Law on Elections of National Deputies into order today, and we will begin, indeed, political reform in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u25	National MP Petrov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u26	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u27	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u28	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, each of us is trying to present our arguments today. I am convinced, and life has already confirmed that all the arguments that, if from the mandate of the one-maned district, a specific majority MP or not, everything depends on what political power he represents. If he represents the President in one-maned districts, then he is always here in Kiev, he does not go there, and he never reports to the voters for everything he has promised. Today, the main thing is to let our voters know clearly what development path they are proposing for Ukraine. Either this is social, an economically powerful developed State with specific protection of human rights, or it will be a State in which clans, oligarchs, criminal elements, criminal capital, Western policies and financial and industrial groups will dominate, all that will work against the people of Ukraine. That is why we, the Communists, insist that we adopt a new electoral law and give the people the right to choose their own path of development rather than to strengthen the power of criminal and corrupt capital.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u29	Sergey Chelnokov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u30	A boat, a faction of communists. Please pass the word to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u31	Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u32	Thank you, Sergey Dmitrovich. The Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I think we're all going as well as we should be in this situation. I think that a group of people's deputies who are asking for a change in the procedure of today's debate has every reason to agree to have the bills that are in the agenda today. They are standing today, but, sadly, they are in such a place that we can not reach their consideration, as the four of them show. This once again confirms the need to go back to the bill, which I am the author of, including, to consider the bills not once on Thursday, but constantly after their consideration. So, I think, Vladimir Mikhailovich, it would be right if you consider the position of a large number of people's deputies and put these bills to the vote first. It's your right.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We exchanged our thoughts for 10 minutes, and now it's clear why we're blocking the rostrum. One minute, let me finish my speech. Since the honourable national deputies are such a proposal, it is obvious that instead of blocking it, we could vote and determine. But you didn't want to do that. So please note, since we have solved all the problems, and today the Ukrainian people are baking only one thing, and they are asking us all the time when we will adopt the Electoral Law in order to remain permanently here in Parliament, there is obviously a need for consultation. A break of 30 minutes is announced. To the leaders of the MPs and factions, please gather in the head office.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u34	I'm asking you, dear fellows, to take our seats, to continue our work. Dear colleagues! Let me inform you about the outcome of the Conciliation Board meeting. Dear colleagues! Two problems that the national MPs insisted on. The first concerns the voting of the law on the election of Ukrainian national deputies. As a result of the discussion, we agreed to do so. So that we don't have the winners and the winners, so that we have the compromise and understanding in the session room, that we will now move on to the decision-making section on the issues under discussion. And there's this question in this chapter, and we're going to look at it and vote. This was the arrangement of the national deputies. If this is not the case, we have arranged to find an agreed solution. One minute, the decision I'm making is what it was. Everyone unanimously supported this position. I emphasize, unanimously. The second moment that two factions insisted on: the faction of our Ukraine, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block. This is the case with the construction of a dam in the Kerchny Strait. I want to inform you on this. Tonight, as was agreed yesterday at the time of the announcements, messages from factions at Anatoly Matviyenka’s proposal (she agrees with the two committees). A delegation of national deputies is leaving, representing various factions who have expressed their desire. She will give her impressions and suggestions by Monday. On Monday, a group of state Duma deputies are arriving to participate in the parliamentary session, when we will be discussing at the hearings of "Ukraine-Russian Relations." We will hold appropriate negotiations, if necessary, we have agreed that on Thursday we can consider this issue if there is a need for further parliamentary responses to this issue. These were the arrangements. Is there no objection? Please, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u35	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! We really agreed that, but it was about no one in front of them had a draft today's session. And it turns out that this law stands at 33rd. This thus shows that our arrangements are virtually powerless. Let's find a compromise like this, not the 33rd, but the third, let's look at it. And then, you have the right to do it alone, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Let's do it, and then we'll take the problem off.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u36	I think the honourable national MPs, if we follow that logic, we're not going to take down the problem in any way. We agreed that we would definitely consider the matter. Since this was a unanimous decision of the Conciliation Board, I am starting a job. The draft law is being announced for consideration. Let's work very quickly, we'll make the right decisions within the hour. Draft Tax Minimum Approval Act 2004 Kirilenko, please, Viacheslav. There is a proposal for the committee to take as a basis. Yeah? This bill. I'm making a decision from the Conciliation Board. I don't make the decision of the Socialist faction. He'll take a decision from another Conciliation Council, I'll do it. All of it. I'm voting on the adoption of the draft law on the approval of the living minimum for 2004. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. Please vote. [[11:25:16]] For-188. The decision is not taken. I'm asking the Secretariat to check the system. Please check. Where she didn't work, tell me. The secretariat, the European Choice MPs, doesn't work. Check it out, please. Stepan Gavrish. Turn the microphone on, I can see your hand. Did you see it right? Stepan Gavrish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, as soon as we had completed the joint consensus council, we had agreed on a process to unlock the work of the Supreme Council. I don't understand why we're continuing to block the parliamentary rostrum right now. Once again, I would like to invite everyone to come to the realization of our agreements and to begin a day-to-day discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u38	Dear National Deputies! Be patient again. I'm calling a break at the request of two factions for 15 minutes. This is the faction of Ukraine and the faction of Ukraine's Agar Party. To the leaders of the MPs and factions, please meet again in the Head’s office.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u39	We'll continue our work. No, we already agreed -- no breaks, let's work, colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the session room. Please invite the national deputies to the session room. Invite the national deputies to the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you of the outcome of the recent negotiations. When we hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council, we're practically making a deal, we're going into the session hall, we're changing our perspective. But now it seems like we've made a deal forever and ever. The first thing we agreed on is that we will now hold three votes: the first is that, in view of the fact that our reconciliation lasted almost two hours, we will continue the work of Parliament in order to consider today all the issues that are urgent, painful. Then, since the draft law on the approval of the minimum of living has been announced for consideration, we will consider it, and the next we will vote on our vision, our attitude towards the law on the election of national deputies. Is that the position taken? Thank you very much. Please take your seats so we can vote. Dear fellows, I ask you to sit down, for we shall not be able to vote. We'll get to the chapter where the chapter will be - "Inclusion in the agenda", then we'll be determined. Dear colleagues, I'm just asking you to take your seats to make the vote effective. I'll put it to a vote. May I have your attention, please? A proposal from the Conciliation Council to continue to work today at the Supreme Council, a plenary meeting until we consider the issues that are defined by the schedule of meetings for Thursday, October 16. Please vote. [[11:48:00]] For-126 Dear colleagues! The factions. Let's do it this way. If this agreement is not fulfilled, I will not put others to the vote. Why do you base each other?Oh, my God! Once the faction leaders made a deal. No one objected. Why don't you vote? Let's make a determination! I'm not gonna ask anyone else to vote. All of it! The same will be true of the Electoral Law. A wastebasket, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u40	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich. I want to speak to the members of the Supreme Council and our constituents. Sadly, during a month and a half, the work of the Supreme Council is deliberately blocked. We cannot consider any legislation. All of ours. The representatives of the groups, both the majority and the opposition and the MP factions, we are constantly making appropriate concessions, in violation of the Supreme Council Rules. And unfortunately, the head of the Regulatory Committee doesn't pay any attention to these issues. At the same time, in order to unlock the Supreme Council, we agree every time. We just agreed at the meeting that we are voting in favour of extending the work of the Supreme Council to 20 hours. The other one. We're considering the Elections Act, I'm sorry about the minimum wage. And third, the Election Act. And I'd like to support that. If there is no such vote, we will not take part in any other vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u41	I'm putting a motion to the vote, I'm reminded here, take it off the vote, about Parliament's will. If Parliament's will is done, will they not vote, will we continue to work or will they block the work again? I'm voting on the proposal of the Conciliation Council to continue the meeting by 20 hours. [[11:50:43]] For 158. The decision is not taken. A draft law on the approval of the 2004 Living Minimum Programme is being announced for consideration. By factions, please explain. Give me one minute, I'll read it. "Our Ukraine" is 12; Communists - 0; "Ukraine" - 42; A party of Ukrainian industrialists and entrepreneurs - 3; SDPU - 4; Ukraine's Socialist Party - 20; European choice - 6; Yulia Block Timoshenko — 6; "Democratic Initiatives" is 15; "The People's Government" - 18; The agrarian party is 14; NDP - 12; People's Choice is 10; non-fractional -6. Comments are unnecessary. I'm announcing a draft law on the approval of the living minimum for 2004. Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, Kirilenko, Our Ukraine, the Ukrainian People's Party. The committee proposes to approve, on the basis of the government's draft subsistence minimum. But there's this bill that we all have in our hands that we're about to vote on. The cost of living is an average of 356 rubies of 4 pcs. At the request of the committee, the government listed the size of the subsistence minimum, taking into account the June 2003 hike or price index, and by letter dated September 15, the government addressed the committee and offered the already listed minimum cost of 358 dollars of 13 copies. Yet the government has not issued another bill to replace the previously distributed bill with new figures. So now we're looking at a project that predicts an old 356. So the committee's decision to make the basis, but given that in the second reading, the figures will be substantially increased.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u43	For the reasons of this question, Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u44	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The Communist faction proposes that this project be sent for work, taking into account what the reporter said, and considering that there is at least no cost of living, and that there is no volume of increase, including the price of bread, on utility services, but only inflation, which does not exactly cover the price increase that has actually taken place. Thus, the Communist faction proposes that the project be sent for work and that housing fees be taken into account and that the price increases that have taken place should be taken into account objectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u45	People's MP, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Then Hara. So are we having a discussion about a question or a vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u46	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I want to express the faction's position on the basis of the vote. The point of our position is this. We believe that the government is insolently deceiving society and the Supreme Council by setting the figure 356. This figure, 356 dollars, does not correspond to the real cost of living. At least the increase in food prices, in the communal sphere that comes into this figure, says that this figure should be at least 100 dollars higher. Therefore, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, given that it is simply a lie to society and the Supreme Council, does not support this bill, considers it necessary to return it to the government and requires that the government submit to the Supreme Council a real, constitutionally responsible law on subsistence minimum. I say again, in our view, it should be at least 100 bracelets larger than the minimum that is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u47	Thank you. Basil Hara, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u48	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to recall that the subsistence minimum is calculated by the normative method. It cannot be increased by 100 bracelets or reduced by the people's deputies. Kirilenko said that on 17 September we had considered a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. We did not agree with him, as prices were recorded at the time of May. They've recalculated. In October, we looked at new numbers, new recalculations and agreed, because I repeat, calculation in a normative, objective way. Therefore, there is a request today for a standard. It is expected to enter into the 2004 budget, as a basis. The Committee will proceed next time at the next sessional meeting with the figures that we adopted at the second meeting in October. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u49	National Deputy Assadchev. Then Gurenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear friends! Well, we're perfectly aware that we can't now accept the subsistence minimum, which was calculated for May, but calculated for June. And July, August, September and already half of October? We can see wonderfully what inflation is like, especially for the essential products of consumption. And why does the government do that? He understands well that if he lists this basket now, it goes beyond 5 percent and he needs to index his salary. And we're at least putting the whole next one in 2004. So I'm deeply convinced that we can't vote now, we have to send this bill, let the government list the entire consumer basket. I strongly believe that we should insist on wage and pension indices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u51	Thank you. Stanislaw Gurenko, the Communist faction and we will vote. I'd like to remind you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u52	I would also like to say by supporting Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenka, colleague of Assadchev, that tomorrow in the world is marked by the Day of the Poor, the Day of the Poor. And our President, who doesn't know yet, during that session of the UN General Assembly where he participated, has already handed the first report to the Secretary-General on the fight against poverty in Ukraine. What this fight is called, we can see it all, it's another farce. The facts are true. In the first quarter, nearly 80 percent of the population in Ukraine had resources all calculated, strained, stretched, less than the per capita subsistence minimum. Today, we are also raped in the form of what needs to be accepted in order to get out of the budget, to start again the figures that perpetuate Ukraine as a poor country. We can't do that. We can't do that. We can't do that. We need to demand from the government of politics, and I am about to conclude, which would be aimed at enhancing Ukraine's well-being, not at osmosis. This project should be sent for further processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u53	Michael Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u54	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I want to draw attention to once again that the cost of living is essentially a calculated amount. So you have to count everything objectively. The faction of Julia Timoshenko's block, starting in May, kept saying, predicted an increase in food prices that we are seeing today. Moreover, the legislation provides that public service tariffs should not exceed 20 percent of this calculation minimum. So all the necessary indicators for this are there. And that's why the government has to sit down, more than that, and the money is because we've seen in the parliamentary hearings, and you can say that tens of billions of dollars are just not counted, what they might be, go into the budget. So all it takes is for the government to sit down and seriously, thinking about people, not something else, to make the right calculations. Thank you for your attention. That's why. Decline.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u55	Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u56	Kirilenko, Our Ukraine, People's Party. Dear colleagues, from the rostrum, I have argued with the committee, but it needs to be discussed more in view of the complexity of the situation in which the committee is involved. In a month and a half, the government, during which the bill is being considered in Parliament, failed to submit a bill in exchange for the previously distributed bill in order to raise even two bracelets, as it counted in June 2003. Even if we do, we should ask the government to take the bill and work on it. In general, no 356, or 358 bracelets, as numbers of the social standard, which is the minimum of living, can withstand any criticism. The method by which the government counts these figures is no longer critical. That's what I was talking about when the bill was for discussion. So I think that the price of the crisis, when flour was on the way up, of flour, and then when fuel was on the way up, there aren't at all two bracelets of four, as the government is now insisting.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u57	Thank you. Government, please, Mikola Alexiyovich Soldatenko, First Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The government's position is brief, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, when we considered this bill a week ago, we found the answer to almost all the questions. First, at the prices of May, June, August and September, we've calculated further by agreement with trade union experts, the Stoyan National MP will confirm that, and the committee. So we agreed that at the highest prices in June, we're willing to offer and accept this minimum of living. This is the first time. Secondly, the performances that have been made today, I would like to say literally one minute. First, housing standards are included in the minimum wage. What they said is that we're afraid of indexation, the indices that we have -- September, October, November, they went into the calculation of this minimum of living. And I'm saying to you that the index, the index threshold today is not five, it's one percent. And so far, the law of indexation has come up, and it's being indexed. And thirdly, if we're going to base this subsistence minimum, the one that is, and we can do that in the second reading, we can do that together with you, any price and cost of living to be counted both in September and in October. And it's projected again by the end of the year. That is, what the committee head Vassil Georgievicz Hara said about the fact that we are absolutely on an existing normative basis, on the statistical basis that is today, we have counted absolutely objectively. Another thing is, if the methodology doesn't take into account what's not there today, we're ready to work on the methodology, and that's what the committee and I talked about and agreed on. So, MPs, I'm asking you to support the kind that the Cabinet of Ministers has proposed today. And what we will offer for the second reading is that we will work together.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u59	I put to the vote, please note, the adoption of the draft law on the approval of the living minimum for 2004. Please vote. [[12:03:13]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. I want to remind you once again that we agreed on the first two issues to make a positive decision, to vote. The factions, please. What about Vladimir Mikhailovich? I am Vladimir Mikhailovich for forty-seven years. We agreed to vote! Let's pick up the transcript and show it. A draft law on the election of national deputies is being announced for consideration. Let's continue the experiments. Please, Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich. Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, three bills were discussed on Tuesday, and you remember their numbers 3425, 3425-1, and 3425-3. Of these, two bills of Rudzikowski, Kludkowski, Oluyka, Ponomarenka, Gavrish, Ioff, Dasutin had the conclusions of scientific expertise and were considered in the committee. The third bill was introduced the day before. Yesterday our committee reviewed this bill and I want to introduce you to the committee's decision. After considering the draft law amending the Ukrainian law on the election of Ukrainian national deputies, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies of Hubski, Zadrodno, Roman, Osika and others, registration number 3425-3, the committee concluded that the introduction of the bill for the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 14 October this year was violated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Articles 6, 12, 13 of the Rules provide that an alternative bill may be submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine no later than 14 days after the decision to include the matter in the agenda. In the order of the day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fourth Call, approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision No. 1 000.137-4 of September 11, 2003, bills were included for the election of Ukrainian national deputies with registration numbers 3425 and 3425-1. And an alternative bill was to be submitted to them no later than September 25 of this year. Moreover, the bill registered under number 3425-3 does not answer the question of the agenda of the plenary session on 14 October this year, as it is an alternative to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies, registration number 2283, introduced by the People's Deputy of Veretennikov and not yet included in the agenda of our session. On the basis of what was said, the committee decided. First, recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should not put a draft bill to the vote on 16 October this year because it has been submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for review in violation of the Rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u61	Dear national deputies, your well-known position as committee. But in view of what we've been looking at, in fact, 3 bills, I think we're going to put the committee to a vote. From the motive of who? Valérie Mishur with a motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u62	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich. The vote on the first two questions showed that a purely proportional law with strict discipline in faction was needed to support the decision of the Board of Reconciliation. If he's out of the faction, he's out of the MP's mandate. Then it'll be all right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u63	Yes, let's vote, please! Let's vote. We have a vote day. Let's identify ourselves. I'm going to put bills to the vote in line with the committee's position. The first is the draft number 3425, the drafters Rudzikowski, Klukkowski, Olujko and Ponomarenko. I'm betting on the adoption vote on the basis of the draft Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies, number 3425, the authors of Rudzikowski and other national MPs I've just talked about. [[12:08:21]] For 209 The factions, please. I bet. The second bill, number 3425-1, is now being voted on, and the authors of Gavrish, Josephus, Dashutin, Zviagilian. I'm betting on a vote on adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies, number 3425-1, authors of Gavrish and others. Please vote. [[12:09:20]] For 106 The decision is not taken. Please don't yell, it'll be the factions. Well, by factions, please, by factions. Come on. Dear colleagues. The Secretariat, why don't you let me know which transformer's been disconnected? Yeah, we just got a call from the secretary and they said the transformer's off. Come on. May the representative of the Technical Commission's secretariat speak with regard to the vote. I'm asking you to calm down. Turn on the tribune, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u64	Dear national MPs, part of the National Deputies' controls, the first sector of these, has been excluded.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u65	This was done in the final vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u66	I beg you, you're a good man, behave yourself. Such a respectable man is a writer, and you begin to say so. In view of the information on disfellowshipping, I am revoting the draft of the national deputy Gavrish and other colleagues. This is a document under number 3425-1 of the draft Ukrainian People's Deputies Act. Please vote. [[12:11:59]] For 122 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! Please, give us a chance to work. The third draft of Law 3425-1, the authors of national MPs: Hubski, Zadrodni, Mirimski, Osika, Pravdenko, Toločko, Remenuk. I'm betting on a draft law on the election of national MPs at number 3425-1. Please vote. [[12:12:48]] For-179 The decision is not taken. They're all gone. Dear colleagues! There's no rating. If you wanted to put on the ratings -- I'd say you couldn't do it. Bye, I don't care. We made a deal. Dear National Deputies! In view of the fact that work is virtually impossible, I announce a 30 - minute break for the last time. After that, if we can't find an understanding, unlock the work of the Supreme Council, I'm going to have to close the proceedings so that the Ukrainian people don't laugh. A break of 30 minutes is announced. For factions and groups, please meet in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m0.u67	Dear colleagues! We discussed various proposals to unlock Parliament's work. In particular, I suggested that because we did not make a positive decision on the Law on Elections of People’s Deputies, and that one party did not seem to have won by pressure, offered to postpone the issue, reconcile positions, and then make a positive decision so that there were no winners and winners. But I'm asking for attention to listen to normal human language, because today it looks like one side of pressure is trying to force another side to accept it. Nobody wants to lose. We need to save everyone's face. So I suggested, let's put this off. Calm down, I know you, listen. On Tuesday, for example, let us make a decision to work and make decisions Tuesday, including a return to the consideration of this law. To that end, we will have time to reconcile positions with a decision that takes into account the position of everyone and looks like a compromise to which Parliament has reached. But this proposal was not supported either. Because the question is either today or nothing. As a result, such an offer is made to the honourable national deputies. I could put to the vote to determine the session room, but I understand that the decision will not be taken. I'll be honest with you, we're all probably running quietly to the point where we might break up and hold elections on an active legislative basis. If we don't want to work, let's do it. Dear colleagues, for eight days, i.e. for two weeks, when we have the plenary days, we will not gather and then we will have the basis under the Constitution to dissolve the Supreme Council. Let's do it. Ask for advice. And now I'm going to call it a 16-hour break. We thought at 16 hours we'd continue our work and then we'd figure it out. At 3: 30 p.m., we agreed to meet the leaders of the MPs and factions. But let's take a break and think about what our assessment is, what is the work of parliamentarians on the part of Ukrainian society.
