ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:00]] Registered -373 373 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We continue our consideration of issues according to Tuesday’s schedule of meetings. A draft law on the approval of a state-wide small city development programme is being announced for consideration. Reporting from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economics and European Integration, Vladimir Leonidovich Prin. Please, in five minutes, Vladimir Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Small cities are the largest in the number of cities in Ukraine. At the same time, many of them are the administrative centers of the districts. The lives of more than 22 million urban and rural people are directly linked to small cities. Small cities play an important role in the formation of a settlement network and the development and deployment of productive forces in Ukraine. At the present stage of the nation’s expansion in small cities, a very difficult economic and social situation has arisen. Not taking into account the specificities of small cities in economic reforms. Socio-work relations in them have gotten a lot worse, led to large-scale unemployment. The importance of identifying economic mechanisms and tools to support the development of small cities has led to the need for the development of a national programme, the development of small cities in Ukraine. The actuality of the program is mainly due to the fact that it applies first to 75 percent of all small cities, and now there are 353. It's different. Such cities, especially monofunctional cities, with mining, coal, chemical, energy, and one in three small cities, are the most affected by structural changes in the country. Third. The existing capacity of small cities for a single development base is limited by weakness. the base, the undeveloped infrastructure, the very limited capacity to form financial sources. The programme is based on a ten-year period and aims both at shaping public policies on the economic and social development of small cities and at defining organisational, legal and financial measures to implement such policies. First of all, it is a set of measures related to job creation as a basis for restoring economic activity, increasing the share of local income, completing their ownership, demarcating state and municipal property, and improving inter-budget relations. It is intended to form a foundation where the territorial communities of small cities will not only become State aid objects but also subjects of local development. At the same time, the program provides a differentiated approach to development in small cities in the manufacturing and social sphere, taking into account their current state of affairs. For this purpose, small cities are assigned to relevant categories, including cities with mostly industrial functions, including monofunctional, transport nodes, sanatorium and recreational centres, historical, historical and architectural, cultural and tourist centers, etc. For each of the categories of cities, the main directions for their socio-economic development are formulated. There are also defined national priorities for the development of small cities, whose economies and livelihoods are related to such areas as coal, energy, mining, chemical, engineering. It should be noted that today the State is providing some assistance to small cities. This is true of eight small cities that benefit from the Mountain Act, 23 cities are part of the priority development areas and areas of the special investment regime. The program provides for the legislative strengthening and expansion of the capacity to support the development of small cities. As a whole, the programme will help to create 240-290,000 jobs in small cities by 2010, with a total of 50-55 per cent of the population employed in small businesses. The program identifies the main tasks of the central and local executives and local self - government authorities in implementing small city policies. They are formed into thirteen chapters. The programme envisages the annual formulation of proposals by the central executive authorities for the development of small cities to be included in the projects of the State Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine and the State budget. Funding for the implementation of the programme will take into account the capacity of the State budget and, in addition to public resources, provide for the inclusion of local budgets. Monitoring the implementation of the programme shall be ensured by a government to which the central executive authorities will report annually on the implementation of economic and social development tasks. On the part of the Supreme Council, control will be exercised both through parliamentary hearings and directly when considering the implementation of Ukraine's economic and social development programme and Ukraine's state budget for the coming years. Dear National Deputies! Developed by the Ministry of Economics and European Integration, the draft bill has been finalized in the light of its comments at the previous session. In particular, financial support for the program has been developed. In the process of consideration of the program, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council made a number of comments and suggestions that are partially included in the program. And we are also very grateful to the Supreme Council Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Utilities for their fruitful cooperation in the drafting of this bill. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u3	Yes, dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. Five minutes. Please state on board the names of the national MPs. Yes, Anatoly Grzezhev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u4	Vladimir Mikhailovich. Nicolanca. I pressed the button.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u5	Nicolanca.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u6	Nicolanca. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Leonidovich! I know you're looking out for small cities, so please tell me the approval of a state-wide small-city development programme, and we have a few hundred in Ukraine today. An extremely important action, after we approve this state-wide programme, I think, how does the government plan to respond financially to the support of this program? Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u7	Thank you. Thank you for asking, Stanislav Mikolaiovich. So really today there are 353 small cities, that's what I said 75 percent of all cities. Once a state-wide small city development programme has been adopted in the formulation of State Budget projects, the National Economic and Social Development Programme will be costed annually for the implementation of the programme. I know, literally before the break you've been looking at the draft law on state-of-the-art programs, you know the total number, so to guarantee that there's definitely going to be fully predictable costs from the very beginning, it's very difficult. But we hope that the funding of the programme will be provided on a constitutional basis, that funds, such as the State Budget, local budgets, international technical assistance funds, will be involved. And by the way, we have good examples of this, for example, in the same place as Ivano-Frankivsky after the rehabilitation of residential, water-borne sewage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u8	Sergei Matvienkov, European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u9	Thank you. Matweenkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Vladimir Leonidovich, I understand perfectly and you must understand that the problem of small cities and the program is good, necessary and necessary solutions, but let us now distract ourselves and imagine for a moment. We've adopted this programme, we've written down the conditional funding mechanism, what you're talking about today. That we're going to solve the mine problem with this program? Because mining cities are a mine problem, it's a coal problem, it's interconnected. The shafts are city-forming settlements, and you know it, we're going to solve the problem of Gokor or the Valley. The fact that the settlement has been built so far is totally unknown and we do not see how to get out of this situation. Because this problem is a little bit wider, well deeper, it's an economic problem. There is a need for a set of economic issues, not programmes, especially those that are poorly funded. In your opinion, how do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u10	Thank you for asking. I fully agree with you that one of these small city development programs, of course, is a problem such as mining villages, cities, that can't be solved. So in order to finance this program, both the cost of restructuring or closing mines should be adequately foreseen for the social development of these cities, so if not even financing just this program, the mining problems, you said, I could add Colkin, and so on and so on. I know that in every area there's practically, in Zaporozhye, you know, started to build the Barganian combination, too, unfortunately, not finished construction, there are villages, and people live, and there's no work. So I would just like to point out that this program has been developed for almost two years. We've made inventory of virtually all the small cities. Even if you notice that at first we had about 250 small cities, now we've come up with a more accurate figure of 353. In addition to this program, they are listed in each area, indicating how many people live there. I mean, I totally agree with you that this one program doesn't raise this problem. There must be a complex approach. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u11	National Deputy Kostinuk, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u12	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. Of course, the program is good, since small cities need special attention. But once again, we go back to the fact that the program given to us is too eloquent. And you also admit that there are no defined sources of funding for this program. We've been looking at the state-of-the-art programs by noon, and this program is also part of the national target programme, and we've been looking at the bill. And this bill also states that all these programs are being implemented using state budget funds. I have a question of this kind. How would the government feel if we included in the bill on second reading such an idea that 20 percent of government taxes remain in small cities? Then there would be real costs, then this program would have concrete meaning. Otherwise, it remains declarative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u13	Thank you for asking. In fact, this program, the project that I'm going to report to you today, is of a national nature. I know that the proposals that you have just highlighted are on the committee led by Valery Pavlovich Desert. But if you make that decision, first, you have to change the tax laws that are in force, and then you have to provide for the financing of this program, because you know that there is a rule in existing legislation that all tax issues are dealt with solely with in tax matters. So they have to make changes, and now, more than that, you know, at the time of the design and the adoption of the Tax Code project, because we're putting together a task that the State Budget project for the next year we've adopted on a new tax base. We could consider the question and anticipate the support of small cities there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u14	Thank you, Vladimir Leonidovich, please sit down. I invite the head of the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Utilities and Liaison of Valery Pavlovich Desert. A short one, Valery Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u15	I'll try, I understand. Dear Valery Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies and national deputies who asked these questions! What I mean is that we are looking at in an overcrowded hall a very important national development programme for small towns in Ukraine. And what I'm going to say is, I'm not going to find out what happened in our regions, and I can only ask you all that, in an ideological and statistical way, the program works on a very substantial and large level is the first. If you look at the financial part that was asked about by MP Nikolaynko, Matvienkov and Kostinyuk, it is absolutely not a question. We've discussed the issue three times in the committee, we've invited the mayor of cities, and we've held exit meetings both in the White Church and in the Preyaslav-Hmelnicki, and we've returned this program to the Cabinet of Ministers, and we've been reinstated to receive it in the first reading. And what I want to say is that if we don't vote for the first reading, there will be no program at all. So I ask you to vote in the first reading for the ideological position that there is today. Then this program goes to the committee, and we're going to make concrete proposals on financial issues that are going to develop small cities in Ukraine. These questions were discussed and discussed by Vladimir Leonidovich. And first of all, you have to figure it out. It is proposed that cities be divided into subgroups: cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, and cities, with no one’s ability. And what I'm saying is that 20 percent of the profits of businesses should definitely stay in small cities and 100 percent of the new ones. If we don't, not just one small city, but 352, they're not going to develop, they're all going to be dead. And then make adjustments to tax legislation. Please support you during the vote in the first reading, and then the committee, together with the Committee on Self - Government of Matvienko, and Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko, will necessarily work out this arrangement. And we'll bring it up for second reading in Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a question to the chairman of the committee. Please give your name on the board. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u17	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Valérie Pavlovich, of course, is a problem that needs to be solved. But how do you feel about the fact that small towns and villages are virtually very different from each other, and what is more, that the district center, the village, and the small town are in its order. So it's going to happen that little space is going to develop on this program, and the district center isn't going to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u18	So the district centers also need to be included in the list of these small cities. We have a second reading program. I told you, we made proposals, including the heads of these small cities, but the government didn't go to work on draft legislation as part of the committee and measures of small cities. Overruled. So we don't have a choice. Accept as it is, and then make an amendment for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u19	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u20	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Valérie Pavlovich, you are well aware that the prerequisite for the creation or creation and existence of small cities was the concentration of industrial production and the production of large goods in the countryside. Today it's all gone. Today, some small farms have developed in connection with the country’s despair and so forth. This should be about supporting the farming system in the countryside and supporting the state or subsidies of small cities and towns in industry. So, your opinion is to change the concept of this law so that we can tell the truth to ourselves first. And if we put the right concept in place, we'll find the right solutions. And so we know that there is no pay today, and small towns are budgeted only by the income tax of individuals. So as your opinion, let's be honest about what we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u21	I want to explain this to you. That when we were looking at this program, I was asking the same questions to the Cabinet of Ministers, which would make room for them to develop. Based on the socio-economic development programme of our nation, or the budget. Well in the budget for this year -- zero, for the next year -- I also think they're going to, they're not going to develop. What a loving little city or a large city is made up of. It's natural resources, it's human resources, it's scientific and technological potential, and that's all you can do and develop a small city. So we have to analyze it here. What these cities imagine, they're very big. Let's focus on what we can do. Allowing them to receive a penny’s worth from companies operating in the city’s territory to channel this money not to pay, including budget organizations, but only to the development of cities, transportation, social spheres, utilities, cultures, education, and especially health care, and the creation of additional jobs. Then it will be. We've got these materials worked out, we'll put them in the second reading. Therefore, we need to be supportive in our first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u22	Mikola Noshchenko, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the "Trug Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u23	160 constituency. Valery Pavlovich, I have such a plan. Do you not doubt that this program will have the desired results? It might happen that we're the same program. We're taking action to hide the city's problems? But this is an introduction. That's the question. In drafting the bill, do you consider that cities of up to 50,000 have different status? There are cities of district subordination that form their own budget, and there are cities of district subordination that have a budget in the district. That's the first question. And the second. But please go back to the question, what are the costs you anticipate from the state budget or from different development budgets or from the Small Towns Programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u24	First. I want to remind you all that we have a structure of power like local self-government. There is the Law on Local Councils, the local self - government that we should use. Sadly, he is not developing today, and local self - government is not. But if big cities like Kiev, Kharkiv, Odessa, Dnipropetrovsk, district centers, they are developing, small cities are just dead. And we don't have a way out. So if we take the program as proposed by the government, we don't have to vote for it. And I'm asking you to vote for this option and make further changes. I remind you, where are the taxes coming from today? It is an income tax, first, and a tax on land, and local taxes and congregations. Three species, nothing else. We suggest that 20 percent of the income tax should be paid to small towns and 100 percent of the small businesses that will be created should all come here within five years. Then the cities will develop. If we rely on the State's Social and Economic Development Programme, there will be absolutely no such thing. And for the state budget, absolutely not, there's government funding and nothing else.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u25	Taras Cranwell, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u26	Dear Valery Pavlovich! You know, it seems to me that this program is so weak and so eloquent that even with the titanic efforts of your committee, it's not likely to be able to bring it into human appearance, but I'm talking about something else. How am I supposed to deal with the ideological moment in the program where we're actually going to write down how local budgets are supposed to be adopted by local councils, sorry, this is interference with the prerogative of local self-government authorities. Maybe we should do a program where what the state gives, and it's going to light up and do, but what the local authorities will do is not their job to leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u27	Unfortunately, only the bubble from that big hole will remain in the country. That is why we will not be able to finance small cities today at the expense of the State Budget. Therefore, we do not interfere with the Law on Local Self - Rule, absolutely. Please tell me how you can bring 400 years of Magdeburg law to the city of Zovkov, Lviv district, if there is no budget available for these measures, and if what we are proposing is to live and develop, history will be restored. So once again, please support this first-reading version. And then we'll fix it, we'll agree, no government will accept it, the Supreme Council will accept it, and then we'll do it all together.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u28	Thank you, Valery Pavlovich, time is up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u29	Thank you very much, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u30	Let's move on to the discussion, please give us a list of the names of the national MPs who signed up for the speech. Yuri Carmazin. Please, let's take 15 minutes to talk. Get ready for school, Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u31	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, a reputable, suffering people of Ukraine. I have carefully read those elements of the message of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which were composed here, which are relevant, wanted to find something here before the development of small places. Besides, here's the government's job and the unemployment rate that the President is describing, regardless of the data Nina Karpachov gave, because he's saying no 26 percent fell in a year and only 2.2 million were unemployed, it's now. So unfortunately, in these small cities, we have the vast majority of the population and most of those who have emigrated and are out of state, and that's from 5 to 8 million people right there. As for the program, I think Valérie Pavlovich, when he said that there was no financial part of the project, said quite softly. That's considering that he's in most places. I'd say it's empty. So, dear friends, is it necessary to adopt such a bill, or is it not? Of course, I agree with the committee head that the need for this is because we have to set priorities. The priority is both development and preservation of today’s village and the small city, which today are 350 cities, say that 253 are being clarified. So, dear friends, until we do so that taxation in a small town and village will be at least one, two percent lower than in the city of Kiev, or in the city of Odessa, or Kharkiv, or in Donetsk, there will be no explanation, let's understand and start this. Valeriy Pavlovich, let's suggest that taxation should be lower in small cities than government taxes in large cities. That's the same thing we're going to get people there, and the development of these cities is going to be. Now it's about legislation. The classification given here in this project does not correspond to the classification already in the law on the general planning scheme for Ukraine. But let's just say we uniformly accept what we've already adopted -- these are small cities that fit into the centers of resettlement systems that have a significant natural and historical and cultural potential, and so on, I'm not going to count what are defined in the law. Next. Let's move away from what's already stated in the Employment Act, which defines the concept of priority development, because we're already using new depressive areas and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u33	I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u34	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u35	Therefore, distinguished national MPs! As we don't see that this program is empty, we still have to take it so that all cities don't become monofunctional, that is, with one enterprise or without an enterprise at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u36	Andrew Schlell, a faction of Julia Timoshenko’s block, to prepare Pisarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u37	Dear fellow national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! I'd like to say first of all that we have another dilemma here. An absolutely empty bill, it contains nothing positive except a name and a direction. Everything else is empty words. There's a declaration, it's a word that's basically understood, and it doesn't explain anything. It's just an empty law, it's a clean sheet of paper. If the committee here proposes to accept a clean paper and the committee will then offer us quality legislation, well, there will be something to say. But still, I would like to emphasize some aspects. First of all, of course, it's a good thing when we talk about the development of small cities, of course. But when the illustration of Jokwa and the celebration of the Magdebrian right of the anniversary was given here, I'll tell you where the money is going to come from. They'll take the rest of the small towns, gather them from all over Lviv County, and invest the funds to celebrate there. And you can see for yourself who will come to this celebration and how it will be done. Of course, I'm glad that it's a town that's really respected and really significant, that it's going to win and at least get some infrastructure. But what can other small cities do? Where do they get the money? Where do they get the funding? I have in the district of the 40th city of Samburi, it was a colossal center, it was a city that could and should have developed its urban structure. Now it's going down not only because there's no urban development program, but because the whole economy of Ukraine is going down. This is a priority. And when we're here to adopt a declaratory law, a law that says that we need to develop small cities, we need to know clearly. Where we're going to get the money. These mono-developed cities, the cities that were built into mines, into factories, into large factories, yes, this is the problem with the survival of these cities. But at the same time, we have and should now talk about the problems of the survival of the whole state. So, of course, I support the direction, because to support this thing, which is called the bill, is funny, because it's a list of problems that we have, and there's no answer to how these problems can be solved, where to take the money, and how to just regulate the activity. And of course, we have to say that the most social problems have monofunctional small cities. And this program is talking about monobuilding cities, processing industries, energy, chemical industries and so on, but not saying how to get out of this position. A number of sectoral programs and reforms, such as the coal reform program, are not being implemented. Let's reform the coal industry, let's regenerate the coal industry. And we have to immediately say that the problem of small cities near the mines will be removed. Let's talk about the development of manufacturing. Let's talk about economic development in general, and then we'll take down the problem of both small cities and large cities and Ukraine in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u38	Thank you. Peter Pisarczuk, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] John the Rabbit will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u39	As I continue to speak with my colleague, I would like to say that, indeed, the small towns of Lviv were in danger of their own existence. This is especially disturbing because most of them are rich in unique historical and architectural monuments. That's why they're here. is an urgent matter of national importance not only from the present, but for future generations. In our view, this work should be based on the approach of the European company of cities of permanent development and the Alberian Charter in 1994, which lays down the principles of governance based on the desire to make decisions, the interest not only of the present but also of future generations. In view of its electoral district alone, Zolotovsky, Pomarian, Podgoratski, Sverska and Split Castles -- witnesses of our history, beginning in the Kiev era, are becoming ruins every day. In the state of lack of funds, the investor does not go because of the unresolved issues of transferring them to ownership and purpose. By addressing this problem, tourism, including international tourism, can transform these small cities into public - budget donors in the future. The other one. The development of a state-wide small city development programme, the best experience of the European Charter of Permanent Development, should be used in the reform of the housing sector. The first experience of the replacement of jacks by the community of citizens in Zotzevi gives good results and greatly improves housing. Unfortunately, really, we had this economy that specializing in the work of the economically active population of small cities defined a few enterprises, they basically formed the output of the budget, they ensured the functioning of the social infrastructure of small cities. That's why such small cities, well, are the most vulnerable to crisis. Therefore, instead of a declaration of the type of “deficiency of housing” will be eliminated by accelerating housing construction, the project needs to replace real long-term lending mechanisms for housing. Because we have almost half of our population. Small cities would have tax conditions, really, I agree with previous speakers, become attractive to small and medium-sized businesses, to the processing industry, to become a sort of bridge between the village and the megapolis. You might consider that small cities, small businesses created here, would be deprived of taxes altogether for three years, since history has shown that wise kings, after wars, have taken cities for five years from paying their taxes. But, in fact, there are still small cities of problems that the authorities of local self - government will never solve. These include the city of New Division, where the production of unique mineral fertilizers, nitric acid, can still be reborn today. Such cities that own unique technologies do not have the right to fall outside the central government. In general, the faction of the SDPI(O) suggests that the proposed project be accepted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u40	John the Rabbit, "Our Ukraine" faction, to prepare Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u41	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Honorable national MPs, as the people say, are "fishless and fish cancer". That's exactly the way I would appreciate this project about the development of small cities. Actually, there is no program in the classical sense of this concept. Rather, we are dealing with methodological recommendations for the creation of such a program. The program is a document that defines goals, tasks, volumes, results, sources of funding, responsibility for tasks. In fact, we only have the direction of development of small cities in the most general expression. As far as finance is concerned, the project can only find forecasts of the need for financial resources, and it can only be found for the development of the social sphere. Indicators of the level of security for the population of small cities are introduced by elements in social infrastructure without urban distribution, without the data required to provide public administration. And the problem of small cities has long been knocking at the power door of all levels. Let us be open - minded, and let us say that traditionally small cities were treated with authority. And what has happened in recent years when the reign of the criminal oligarchy on the shoulders of the inhabitants of these cities when there was a regime of criminal oligarchy, you would not find it in hell. All of these small cities, particularly the district centers, had previously been kept largely in processing and light industries, farm repair companies. The thoughtless privatization has left many of these businesses in the hands of individual businessmen who have neither the funds nor the desire to ensure their effective activities. During the past week, Vladimir Cherniak and I were in the cities of Talnoi, Zvenigradica, and Lisenci in Cherkaschi. People complain that the Talnomy sugar plant doesn't work and people don't work. Similar practices in other cities. It is worth reminding us that a number of companies, including sugar factories, were given to a foreign investor, usually Russian. And who will develop a competitor? So these companies are stopped, and I highly doubt that they will be working again soon. For example, you don't have to go far enough to open the newspaper "Point of View" and read about how Moscow's emissaries strongly recommend that the former CEO of the company's "Dodniprovsky" combine, Victor Verethennikov, hand them the shares of this company. What's such a strong recommendation is not for me to tell you. No factories, no jobs, no jobs, no land, no wages. That's where poverty comes from. All this says is that the authorities of all levels, and too central and district, simply washed their hands for many years from the problem of small cities. But you can't keep doing that. The problem of small cities can only be addressed if all levels of authority are united. The restoration of small cities should begin with the restoration of production, with the creation of jobs. Our ministries, and the Ministry of Economics in the first place, should have thought about the location of production in the area. This process cannot be given to the redemption of individual businessmen or to a market mechanism that is not yet in place. Another important direction in the development of small cities is to provide training and leisure for children and young people. More detail should be given on how to ensure the efficient use of natural resources, greening cities, and how to deal with household waste. The problem of housing is very important, and its solution needs to be written more specifically. That's why I, the distinguished national MPs, propose to accept this program in the first reading and to work it out very well, because that is the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u42	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u43	Dear colleagues! Dear Provinces! Because I have the impression that there are only small towns out here, and all the capitals are solving their big problems right now, capital issues. I won't touch the rabbit anymore, we've made peace with him so you know, and don't wait for any more, we've hugged, it's okay. I'm going to study with Rabbit how to solve problems. To be honest, honorable, small cities all over the world are self-sufficient units, where some medium or small business thrives, crafts flourish, everything is fixed and, once again, self-sufficient. In Ukraine, however, our small towns, small towns today, are having huge problems, and if you want, even national tragedies. Let us look at the map of our country with you, starting somewhere from the North, the same historical Deaf who once was a Cossack capital, in which a terrible, terrible day he is down. Go to the side of Kharkushka, look at the same thing, say, the Gods or the Serpents, who can barely stomach it. Go to Western Ukraine, on the border of Rava Ruska, which was once a district center, where trades flourished, where there were furskins, where there were potters, and so on, today in some terrible, terrible decline. The only thing that can make our Ukrainian very happy is that in small towns today, thank God and I don't know who else to thank, help, although the birth rate is a little higher than in Ukraine at all. I don't know what it's from, or whether it's light that's out before, or maybe people just have more time, that even though they're holding small towns somewhere at some level of our population. The tragedy, of course, is that, especially in eastern Ukraine, almost all the working towns were tied to a single object or mine, or perhaps one mine. It's all gone, there's no new spare jobs anymore. Moreover, it seemed that there was already in our eyes a Slavic - nuclear Slavic, who also, after the closure of the Chernobyl station, was virtually unforeseeable today, for example, there are some new technologies that exist. All of this, once again, my constituency, what I'm saying is, my constituency is either large cities or small towns. This is the same Rava Ruska. It's the same Novo-Yavrovsk that was built, actually, for the sake of the former Soviet sorghum. Now it's all gone down, nobody needs it all, we have about 20,000 unemployed people left on leave today. And I end up with, of course, all these good wishes that went away from the government somehow to help small towns, they're usually commendable. But, dear fellows, I have the impression that you and I do very often simply make a legal whirlwind that gives absolutely nothing to anyone. As far as this law is concerned, that's my opinion. They say one man came to work, asked him: " What can you do?” He says, “I can dig” - What else can you do? - I can't dig. As a result, this law can be passed without giving or accepting anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Project review, I didn't announce it, no. I remember what I was saying, I was remembering. Dear colleagues! Consideration of the draft Personal Data Protection Act. Sorry, the review of the draft law approving the State Small Town Development Program has been completed. The decision will be made on the day of the vote, taking into account the discussion that has taken place. Out of procedure, please, Sergey Ivanovich Drogunzov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u45	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, you weren't here for an hour when we were looking at the last question, not at the end, but before that, I was sitting -- I want you to listen -- and I was sitting at the meeting of Gennady Andryovich. So to anyone who was on the list after the main category of regular speakers, he gave each one a minute. And you didn't do it. And I want you to look to the future, so ask Hennady Andryovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u46	You can see that there are new approaches each time. We have 14 people in one minute, and you can see how many bills we have and they're all urgent. Dear colleagues, we've been discussing the question for 45 minutes, if you vote to continue the discussion, let's talk then. I'm announcing a draft Personal Data Protection Act. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Mr. Rodionov Mikhailo Kuzmić, who is co-author of the bill. Please, Mikhail Kuzmich, in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u47	Not till ten?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u48	By five.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u49	Okay. Communist faction, Rodionov. Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, This bill, which we bring to our attention, is quite complex and simple. First, to make it clear to everyone what personal data is. According to the existing Information Act, the basic data on the person, i.e. personal data, are nationality, education, family status, religious status, health, address, date and place of birth. But in other laws, there's more to this personal data. So this law has four elements, political, organizational, technical and moral. Information technologies today are recognized technologies and we are communicating not only in the middle of Ukraine, but also outside Ukraine. Therefore, all of us who associate with each other should know that we do speak the same language. And if personal data, as they are, should know that the law that exists in Ukraine protects it. Organizational. If there is such a law, it is necessary for someone to oversee it. Technical problems are the problems we have that allow personal data to be protected or not. It's also a large ingredient. And moral, and it can't work that way that it protects data, we'll do worse for people. So I want to combine these data, the law makers, and I also want to take this law into consideration, and they want to combine these terms. First, we were guided by articles of the Constitution - 3, 32, 34 of Ukraine. Let me remind you of these positions, they may seem mutually exclusive to you, but that's not true. Article 3, it says: Man, his life and health, honor and dignity, integrity and security are recognized in Ukraine as the highest social value. Article 32: No one can intervene in his or her personal family life, nor is it allowed to collect, store, use, and disseminate confidential information about a person without his or her consent, except in cases determined by law only for the sake of national security and others. Everyone has the right to freely collect, store, and use, to disseminate information orally, in writing, or in other ways. The exercise of these rights can only be limited by law in the interests of national security and beyond the text, as well as to prevent the disclosure of confidential information. That is, in order to meet the requirements of the Constitution, it is necessary, in each case, to determine the confidentiality of information about a person. The authors of this draft law have tried to regulate the free movement of personal data of a different nature in terms of person, social, financial, legal, scientific, technical and other, and to protect these data in accordance with the fundamental human rights and freedoms defined in the above articles - 3rd, 32nd, 34th. If we can't connect, it's bad. The legal situation in the field of personal data protection is so. In Europe, this is the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Convention for the Protection of Individuals in the Automated Processing of Personal Data, Directive 95, 46 of the European Parliament and the Council on the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the telecommunications sector in Ukraine. [[Rome, '50s]] [[Strasbourg, 81st]] [[97.]] And Ukraine has already mentioned the above articles of the law, as well as articles 30, 38, 39 of the Ukrainian Information Act, article 2 of the Ukrainian Property Act and other laws. The law is system-wide. The developers tried to reconcile the law and the mechanisms that ensure the enforcement of personal data standards. The structure of the law is: the first section gives the scope of the law, the third section defines the right to use, the fourth section recognizes the access regime, the fifth condition for changes and additions to personal data, the sixth section regulates the issue of security, the seventh section defines the types of responsibility, and the eighth section sets out the principles of international cooperation. The law is fundamental. I want to remind you that this law has a rich history. It has eight versions, 23 editions, 250 comments -- Minfin, Mineconomy, Minist, MMS, Tax, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minosvets and others. The conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration is positive, so the first reading can be accepted. I want to assure the National Deputies that if they agree to this law, then the Committee of Science and Education, I personally am responsible for this, a report of every effort to ensure that this law does not harm, no, as they say, no one, especially our ordinary citizens, and that it does meet the standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u50	Mikhail Kuzmich, let's sign up for a question if there is one. You don't? Please sign up. Five minutes to ask. Please state the names of the national MPs on the board. Omelyan Pussy, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u51	Please give it to Eshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u52	National Deputy Yeshchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u53	Fucking Communist faction. We know that this law has been developed with a group of comrades. And the question is, though, personal data, you've talked a lot about them. This is restricted information. It can't, well, it's a law about, to the point that this personal data can lead to no information about the person in office, and we MPs find that very interesting. you can't get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u54	Okay. This concern is a reason, it's a reason, and I want to remind you that at the time when this law was being prepared, and I have to face it as a personal scientific interest, there were so many comments from journalists, so I'm even reading one statement or an application from journalists, entrepreneurs. Please make every effort to ensure that personal data protection requirements do not limit the rights of journalists, entrepreneurs, researchers to collect and use commonly accepted information about state officials and entrepreneurs. This is a really difficult moment, but we did not foresee all these problems in our law, even in article 4. "The personal data of the natural person who claims or holds an election position in the representative bodies or the position of the civil servant of the first category do not refer to information with limited access. I mean, it's one of them, but maybe the MPs will give it to others. I think you can count on it not to be, they say, in favor of it, but "not in harm's way."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u55	Valerius Lebedivsky, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u56	Dear reporter, one thing is to declare the right, the other is to ensure in the bill the integrity of the organization of this right. Therefore, my question concerns the aspect of whether the bill provides for sanctions, i.e. effective sanctions on individuals or bodies that violate the right to protect personal data.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u57	Yes, an article of the law, but this article requires that responsibility, not in this law, but in others. We suggest that Ukraine's violated personal data protection legislation entails disciplinary, civil and legal, administrative or criminal responsibility. If we do not have enough of these articles in these laws or in the Criminal Code, we still need to bring them there. Because that's the way it is. It's a framework law, but in every law, I think it's inappropriate, as they say, to say how many years for whether or not it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u58	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u59	Thank you. Your Honor, I'm here, of course, with a few questions specific to the bill, but there's also another question. Here our colleague, a national MP, has removed a similar bill from consideration. In your opinion, why did he do this because he was motivated by the fact that he had many letters before him? And the second here in the bill is a provision that is financed by the citizens themselves and by the protection of personal data. How motivated was that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u60	Thank you. Well, first of all. It's not convenient to talk about why he took it off, but it's possible, as they say, to have articles, for example, that don't exist in the European Declaration, where these articles apply. So, for example, vulnerable data. On this vulnerable data, all data has been written down, which is that you can refer everything to people with restricted access, and then our whole country becomes a country with limited access to information. That's it. Yet, there is no man, perhaps. And there is a note to this law. And second of all. There's funding. Maybe we're a little bit out of date, but it's meant that funding isn't for you, just for a citizen, but we have private lawyers, private doctors, private entrepreneurs, and they're collecting your data, so you shouldn't be financing them. But it's probably better to write it down a little bit, so there's no misunderstanding. I think the national MPs will agree with this law, so considering that I, for example, am a Communist faction, I don't have the order of this law, and it's purely scientific and, if legal. So we make a pretty good law, which still didn't limit what they say is information, including journalists.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u61	Mikola Noshchenko, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, "Trug Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u62	Dear reporter! Before I ask a question, I want to say that today's information in the context of powerful electronic computing machines can provide interesting things about a person, a family, starting with the library, a JECQ and ending with banking documents, we leave traces. And if we say we're declarations, registers, payment information, property information. So that's what I'm asking. Of the eight versions of the twenty-three editions, you haven't tried to write a personal data law, and then you've already protected it, then you've already got ownership. We don't have a law today that clearly speaks at the level of the states that have personal status information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u63	Okay. That's a good question. But here's what I want to tell you. There really is a lot of variety here. I only read those laws that apply to personal data. I'm once again with your permission to speak the language of national minorities. Information on notary, lawyer, communications, the institutional and legal framework for combating organized crime, the police, banks and banking, the framework of Ukrainian health legislation and so on. There is a variety of concepts in these laws. For example, one law states that AIDS, spread, AIDS is a service secret, and the basics of Ukrainian legislation on health are medical secrets. All these laws are official, medical, and are subject to criminal liability in different ways. It seems to me that the moment that we have adopted or are now enacting a basic law does not have to be tried to make all the changes here, but if we accept it after the second reading of the finalization, then we need to bring in all the personal data laws, as you say, an understanding. Although in general, there is no one understanding in principle either, because there are some data, such as a notary. What does the notary consider personal data? So, I think, in order not to break wood, as they say, to rush change right away and nothing else. I still need to address the four elements: political, organizational, technical and moral parts, I think this will be useful. But hurrying up like this, we're just going to be wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u64	Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u65	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich! And I have a question for you, Mikhail Kuzmovich. What's going on? There's not another second. That's the question. Please state after the adoption of the law that you are introducing. Is it possible in the country that such a situation was publicized in the United States in relation to Clinton and Monica, or does this law limit such publicity?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u66	I'm going to say right now that you don't have to do that, a law that doesn't give you the right. It must be what it is, for it is a ministerial person, a person taking up a great deal. and limited responsibility, i.e. limited access information can't be, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u67	Thank you, Mikhail Kuzmich, time is up. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin Please give the name of the national deputies who signed up for the performance. Please, Yuri Anatoliovich, prepare Tomenka Mikoli.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u68	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, a suffering Ukrainian people. You are being prepared for another journey to heaven that will lead you to hell. Why? Imagine that we are now in the form of protection of personal data rights. First. Think of the new bodies that provide for colossal funding. And I'm talking to the authors, and one of the authors did it for nothing, for nothing! Because really people, when they found out they wanted to slap them on the throat, started writing and started saying everything they thought. I'm just gonna say a little bit of what I'm thinking. Article 25 is authorized for the protection of personal rights. The authorized Human Rights Council appoints and withdraws from office a personal data protection officer. He's got a job to do. The job is that the D.A. is just resting. For example, referral to appropriate protest agencies, requests, clarifications, recommendations, guidelines for handling administrative and judicial matters with a view to ensuring personal data rights. It's fine, isn't it? You understand, and it's just one of those, I can't, I don't have time, it's the committee that had to say right now, all those observations that carry legal burden. Next. We have an annual review of the Supreme Council, and today it's only the President who's had an annual application, an appeal to us, yet to be authorized to protect personal data, to address. I'm asking you if you can put me in line for this position, or if we're going to define someone right now. Let's have a conscience. Then we create a special authorized central executive body for the protection of personal data. We don't have enough of these organs, we don't have a direct act of the Constitution, we don't defend it, let's not pay attention, there's nowhere to go today, there's Kuchma today, so let's say there's an administration that you don't want to adopt the law and circumcise it as it should be. This is not how we will consider that there are violations of the Constitution, but that normal people will come, and that this will be necessary for normal people. There will be no need for such a law for normal people. I would like to draw your attention to what is in the draft position that regulates the procedures for court proceedings on denial of access to persons, this is article 19. Since this is the subject of civil-process legislation response, I'm drawing your attention to the problem of citizen financing of personal data protection work, this is article 30. And I'll just tell you that if we don't look at this law and look at it separately from Law 2082 -- on the informational openness of the authorities and the senior officials in Ukraine, who introduced the People's Chamber, this law had to be considered, adopted and considered as an alternative to this law. It's something that's not done completely consciously, and that's why I'm definitely against this approach, because I'm behind this law, which is about information openness, and this law that we've just been looking at, it's just going to cause a lot of damage, and everyone can be put in jail for even keeping a phone book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u69	Thank you. Mikola Tomenko, prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u70	Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine." I'm going to continue the general line that my colleague Yuri Carmazin said, because there are a lot of warnings about this approach. It's not in vain that Alexander the Road isn't in the hall and it's broken its law, because in fact, well, there's a lot of common motives here in two laws. We had a public discussion of these two bills, and I'm just going to go back to why journalists and information practitioners are afraid of this law. Because they're thinking of categories not of the European Council for the Protection of Persons Convention for the Automated Processing of Personal Data, and they're thinking of categories of real Ukraine, of the real prosecutor's office, of the real court system, of the Attorney General's Office, which has now opened criminal cases over the past two weeks for criticizing the President, thinking that they're thus preventing him from doing his job. And when asked by the Attorney General, he said he had such a recommendation to open criminal cases. Well, that's a separate subject. But the same can be done in the same way under this law. In fact, it does not protect citizens. We've come up with either Lenin or some time to protect a person, we need to create a special authority of the Cabinet of Ministers, get a bunch of people there, protect the same people for money. I do not know how this authorized body not only said that the authorized human rights officer appointed the authorized one, but also that there was a special authorized executive body that performed the functions. Who creates it, how many people work there, how they act. In the regional authorities, such organs act as special agents. And there's a lot of technological questions about how it's going to be done in practice because they're doing arbitrary work. For example, as former director of the political institute, I have a database, an official public biography database of all Ukrainian politicians, and I use it. Now I need to get permission to publish a biography of the President of Ukraine or a national deputy there and so on, something like that when it's officially published by me as a national deputy in the handbooks and so forth. Now these licenses will have to be paid, of course, because this is still an attempt to obtain license or license information. So I think it was a good idea, but in order to make this bill, we have to go back to the very logic of legislation. It can't be a basic or a framework law, because a basic or framework law is an information law, and you have to go back to the basic position of information and edit it. If we don't do anything because of this law, then write this law. Our committee's proposal is to let the camera look at committee mandates from time to time and, of course, this law goes solely into the powers of our committee, because here is the information sphere, and turn it back to work and start doing, this idea of turning it into a normal bill, but with other norms.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u71	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, a faction of Communists, prepare Andrew Skull.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u72	Thank you very much. I want to mention one story. In 1993, when the Communist Party of Ukraine applied for registration according to existing legislation, some time later, in a very national-democratically oriented newspaper, these documents were somehow extracted from the Ministuce with names, their home addresses, and so on and so forth. I'm asking the honourable authors of the law, are they going to be attracted to this law that you're proposing, these bastards? The next situation is the President's election in 99th year. There were either 20 or 30 candidates out there, I don't remember exactly. But they all collected one million signatures. After the first round was over and they took off, it became clear that, in fact, only 5 or 10 percent of the population voted for them in the first round of voting. Where did these people get the support of a million people, if they were actually voted for by about 50 or 100,000? And our distinguished Mr. Rybetz, whom I then admonished as the head of the Cetre elections, even in one very European and American newspaper: yes, he knows this problem, he knows that even in sports halls and stadiums there are certain cooperatives in the left and right hand of certain databases that have been exchanged and signed these letters in support of those or other candidates. Even they are, and from this rostrum they are still performing, preparing for such running. Next question. Base reference 09 and base DAI. Go to Petrovka and you'll take a laser disc for 20 bracelets and you'll pull out any of the addresses of your own and your phone number. What it is and whether it is subject to this law and under the protection of this law. Please state inspection database is the same. And in the end. Ladies and gentlemen, let's mention the election to the Supreme Council of the Last. What an unpredictable postal novel some political forces, as it were, have begun. Some kind of "o," yeah, Communist Party of workers. Where they took the addresses of millions of people and personally wrote, for example, the town of Preyaslav-Hmelnicki, the street there Socialist or Lenin, the house, the apartment and personal writing: the revered Dmitry Ignatovich. Where did this political Spain get the personal addresses of millions of people? Whether this law protects such people. At that time, they called on us and begged: Why do these passages turn to us? Where did they get the addresses? The Law did not protect these people. So I'd like to ask the honourable drafters of the law to take these notes into account and do everything they can to ensure that the gateways don't use personal data for their dirty political purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u73	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, prepare for Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u74	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, I would like to address you with the fact that this is a matter of dividing the view of the bill and its spirit. That's a very good idea. The execution, you know, can be corrected. But here we need to think about something else. What are we talking about? A person collects a personal database. Well, it's not just lawyers, it's not just private ones, it's the State Inspectorate, it's absolutely true, there's a bunch of other institutions that collect personal data. And the responsibility for their preservation, if inadequately preserved, may be due to some punishment. So in this sense, theoretically you can talk in a positive world. But it's just, you know, we always have this inner sense of the state where this law is adopted. As soon as I hear about the banning law, which punishes the law, I want to go against it. And that's where it works in each of us. Here we have to figure out the situation. And the only thing here that the apriors don't need to discuss is the creation of this body, is the Authorized Supreme Council on the protection of this data, the Personal Data Protection Commissioner. This structure, I think, is necessary. We can talk about creating a law that prohibits the distribution of personal data without consent and so on, it's written down. But we don't have to create new structures here. That's the first one. The other one. It is necessary to remove from the draft position that it regulates the procedure for courts to refuse access to personal data, since the matter relates to the subject matter of the legal regulation of the CDC. And that's understandable. So I want them to approach this bill, not as good intentions, but as a road to hell. And the power changes, the staff changes in these powers, they go bad and eventually they come good, but the laws have to work in all conditions, that is to say, in all conditions. And they work when there is an honest authority. And here, of course, I have some warning about the interaction of the authorized personal protection mechanism with them and the special authorized central executive authority on personal data protection. This is what the drafters of the bill need, and I want them to pay attention to it. Next. The order in which personal data are stored and distributed, changes and additions are made. And in general, I want to conclude by saying that, of course, there are private things in which no one has the right to go. And I think these things have to be regulated, but open data should be available to everyone. We have no right to close, especially public, politicians. Whoever has something to hide, don't complain about the diggers. A person who has nothing to hide will, of course, be open - hearted to similar laws. I want to make it clear that a person with a guilty conscience does not hide behind a bill, and a person with a clean conscience does not need any prohibition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u75	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u76	Dear colleagues! We're looking at a really big question right now, and we can't look at it beyond our reality, because there can be good intentions, really, and there can be bad embodiments. We are facing a dilemma, whether informational openness or closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u77	I think we can get the discussion out of the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u78	We're facing a dilemma: information openness or closed personal data, of course, that we need to move towards information openness. And there's probably no doubt that this is going to be a movement towards democracy and a movement towards civil society. And you don't need to take permission on the data, on the open data, they should be available to everyone. And we cannot protect people, including public politicians, from having their lives revealed. That's not the point, that's the point of another, and that's the problem, that there's a private life of specific private people who don't need to enter, they say. And maybe this is where we have to do the boundary, it's very hard to do it if we take a step in the same direction -- we're going to go to the informational closure. If we take a step in the other direction, we will take a step in all permissiveness and immorality. But once again, we cannot ban the publication or use of data that is open. In this regard, the basic issue of the bill is that it is clear that personal data are clearly defined. My wish to the law makers is that there should be no ambiguity, no different interpretations of the matter, and only then can we adopt the law. I have doubts, by the way, whether or not we need so-called personal data, maybe we should use another term to do that. You have to fight against the illegal use of personal data, you have to fight human rights violations, and I would put that in such a broad context. If this is the fight against human rights violations, the bill is needed; and if this is the goal of concealing the data that needs to be opened, even if a journalist gets to them, it will be a negative phenomenon. I also have doubts about the need to create a special body to protect personal data. In my opinion, the very idea of the law may be supported, but it needs to be sent back to the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Personal Data Protection Act has been completed. We will make decisions taking into account the discussion by also listening to the position of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Alexander Mikolaiovich, Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u80	Thank you. Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, to which I would like to draw your attention. The project foresees that the act of the law extends to relations related to the processing of information about a particular individual not only in public authorities, self - government bodies, and individuals, namely, who perform professional duties as a private lawyer, notaryus, doctor, and so on. In this regard, it should be noted that article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Notaryate, article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Lawyers, clearly regulated issues of keeping the notary secret of notarial actions and preserving the lawyer's attorney's secret. Furthermore, the issue of medical secrecy is regulated by the basics of Ukrainian health legislation, in accordance with article 40, the basics of Ukrainian legislation on health care, medical personnel and other persons who have become aware of the disease, medical examinations, examinations and their results, the intimate and family life of a citizen, who has no right to disclose this information except as provided for by legislative acts. In view of the Ministry’s view of the protection of data on a person in the field of notariate, lawyers, and health care, they have a clear legislative arrangement and do not need additional regulatory provisions. I'm not going to talk about the practical necessity of this law, it's going to be decided by you in the session room, but I also want to say that this law has a lot of contradictions and it's competing with many articles of valid laws, including procedural legislation. And besides, there's a lot of comments from the Ministry, and I'm not going to take up your time with the standard. Technicians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u81	Thank you. I see. A draft law on State-of-the-art expertise by the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Roman Volodymyrovich Tkac, is being announced for consideration. Please be in 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u82	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You're looking at a draft of the Ukrainian Law on State-ordered Expertise. As one of the co-authors of this bill, I want to explain the need for its adoption, and I want to define the cycle of tasks that this law is going to perform. Today, as a result of the last ten years of land-agrarian transformations in Ukraine, a new structure for land use is being developed, based on the use of land-use forms to land of different types of land-use rights. The State legal provision for the rational use and protection of land, as well as for the exercise of subjective rights to land by citizens, legal persons, the State and the territorial communities, provides for mandatory production and approval of land-abiding documentation provided for in Ukraine's Main Earth Code. On the basis of the above, I give a brief argument as to the need to adopt the bill. First, taking into account the legal significance of land-use documentation, Ukraine's new Earth Code provides for the conduct of state expertise on specific types of technical documentation in the field of land administration, projects and materials on land use and protection. In accordance with article 186, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Land Code, natural materials for land use and protection, land-based projects, State land cadastral materials, land-relationship reform, projects, as well as technical and economic materials for land use and protection are subject to state expertise carried out by the Land Authority in accordance with the law. The Ukrainian Code of Land does not define the legal nature of such expertise, nor does it indicate that it is an independent type of expert activity. The reasons, order, and legal consequences of such an expertise are not determined. In addition, there is no separate law in Ukraine to determine the basis and order of such an expertise. Today, the order for the conduct of state-owned land-use expertise is regulated by specific regulations, such as the Regulations on the Implementation of State-ordered Expertise, approved by the Order of the Ukraine State Commission of 11 March 97 and the Decree of the President of Ukraine on the Status of the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources of 14 August 2000. An analysis of the valid positions in conducting the study shows that they do not conform to the Ukrainian Code of Land, including differences in the definition of land - based expertise and many others. The other one. The experience of privatization of agricultural land, a non-agricultural assignment, has shown that questions about the legal basis for carrying out state-owned expertise are very common. Technical documents for the production of state-owned land rights, other land-based documentation, and the legal value of expert conclusions for local government authorities and local government authorities regarding the establishment of subjective land rights. Usually. The process of conducting an expert study is long - term and requires citizens and business entities to spend additional financial resources on the cost of such an expertise. Third. The need for the adoption of such a law is also due to the fact that the legal provision for the execution of a state - owned expertise does not indicate in which cases State expertise is required and where such expertise can be carried out selectively or at the request of interested persons. The absence of clearly defined legal grounds in the exercise of this expertise leads to the unwarranted conduct of all technical documentation in the field of land administration. Finally, state-level expertise should be considered in the law as an activity of authorized public authorities aimed at research, testing, analysis, and assessment of subjects of expertise to comply with current legislation, existing standards, and standards, as well as the preparation of well - founded conclusions for decision-making in the field of land use and protection, and the realization of land rights. The proposed draft drafted in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, article 186 of the current Ukrainian Code of Land, is in line with other laws of Ukraine. The adoption of this law does not provide for additional budgetary funding, since the conduct of State expertise relies on the bodies of the State Commission of Ukraine. At the same time, the legislative arrangements for the conduct of such an expert exercise will allow for significant costs to be involved in the public budget. Dear colleagues, in the process of preparing and bringing this matter up for discussion, I have examined in detail the observations that are in the conclusions of our Chief Scientific and Expert Office and many others, and I think they will be taken into account in the second reading, and in the first reading, I think this bill can be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u83	You too. Any questions? Please sign up. Five minutes to ask. Please give me a list of the National Deputies on the board. Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u84	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Your Honor, I have two questions to ask you about the following character. First, do you consider it necessary to separate the competence of the State Commission of Ukraine and its local authorities with regard to the conduct of land-based expertise? And secondly, do you think your bill meets the requirements of standard-setting technology, because there's information coming from places that when the relevant services got to know each other, that it doesn't fit the right data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u85	I see. First question. I basically agree with you that, really, there will be a clearer description of where the State Commission body is to be made here in the center and where the land administrations are located. It's essentially possible. And as to whether he responds, let's say, to current legislation, to the present situation. I just want you to understand that today this kind of work is being done on a ground-based expertise. But it is carried out according to a position approved by the State Commission. And I'm going to suggest that we just put it into the law and we're going to adopt that law. And I don't see any differences here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u86	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u87	Thank you. Dear reporter, Mr. Roman. Should Article 14 Be Reworked? The article deals with the financing of state - owned expertise. What do I mean? Well, first of all, as if it wasn't clear enough about paying for extra expertise -- not more than one and a half percent. You realize that this could be the cause of repeated abuse, for those officials who will determine what it is, not more than half a percent. It could be 1.2, it could be one. I think it would be worth a little bit more to say, actually, what would be the amount of payment for the state's expertise. The other one. In fact, it may be worth dividing the payment for, separately, individuals to make one price, and for legal persons. Imagine a grandmother who wants, has no money, and wants to appreciate her garden properly, perhaps there should be another payment. Another moment, third moment. Perhaps for those individuals to whom the Savings Bank has a savings debt, it might be wise to consider these debts in payment for the assessment of these lands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u88	Thank you. First of all, this job is being funded now, because if it's bigger, the work that the authorities of the State Commission are doing, the land administration, they're actually on the budget, they're getting jobs for it. And it's funded by the government budget. The question in the next question is the payment of sample expertise. When it comes to the grandmother you mentioned, she will not actually give papers for an expert’s work, for this is the law that says where it is mandatory and where it is selective. And the question of what's going on now is that land degradation doesn't mean that, for example, there's a project in some village, and this is a project, and this is a project that's being conducted by 100% of all people. And the question is, only 10 percent of these jobs can be subject to this expertise and pay a certain amount for them. What you said about making a clearer one-and-a-half percent or one-half percent, maybe that's really the way it's supposed to be. And I think you can consult and write this right over here more clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u89	Ivan Sidorovich Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u90	Dear Romane Volodymyrovich, you know that your bill is partly governed by European legislation, I mean the Rome Treaty on the Application of European Co-operation in 1957 and the GAT SOT documents, this is the General Agreement on Trade in Services and the Multilateral Agreement on Government Procurement. In articles 5th, 7th and 8th of your bill, I think it would be important to take into account the exact requirements of these anticompetitive agreements, which means that the State can only buy services from Ukrainian enterprises, and avoid monopolistic provision of services, so that the supplier does not abuse its monopoly. I think you can do that in the next piece of your law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u91	Dear colleague! I really thank you for that question. I have the help of the Committee on European Integration on the appropriateness of this bill to these requirements. And actually, I think it was just sent at the last moment. I think all the comments you've said about will be taken into account and will make appropriate changes to this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u92	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. For the committee's report, please, Vladimir Leschchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u93	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Let me give you the opinion of the committee on this subject. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations carefully examined the draft Ukrainian Law on State-ordered Expertise by the Ukrainian National Deputies, John Tomic and Roman Tkach, and notes the following. First. The bill was drafted in accordance with article 186 of the Ukrainian Land Code. Its purpose is to define the legal, organizational, and financial foundations of expertise in the field of land administration and land management. The other one. This bill is purely technological. Third. The content of the draft Law on Stately Earthly Expertise, submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is fully consistent with the subject matter. While appreciating the bill as a whole, the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee agrees with a number of observations by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council. For example, there are only two types of state-owned expertise: mandatory and selective. There is, however, good reason for allocating another kind of voluntary expertise. This was already discussed in the question of whether individuals or legal persons could turn. Adjustment also requires article 5 of the project. By name, it should determine the circle of subjects of state - owned expertise, that is, its performers and its customers. Considering that the project identifies only the basic regulation of social relations in the field of state-owned land-based expertise, article 11 of the project sets out the principles for the conduct of such an expertise. It is appropriate to provide for the development by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of a position as a sub-legislative act on the order of the conduct of state-owned land-use documentation. The Committee believes that there is a need for clarification and article 14 regarding sources of funding for certain types of public and land-based expertise. Thus, mandatory and selective state-owned expertise should be financed by the State Budget. And voluntary state expertise should be financed at the expense of the customer. The bill should also be supplemented by article 18 of the final clauses, which provides that the law will take effect from the date of its publication. The main scientific and expert office has proposed to adopt this bill as a basis for the first reading. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a project on state-owned land-based expertise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u94	Thank you, Vladimir Alexiyovich, I think there will be questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u95	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u96	Please, if you have any questions, let's sign up. Please explain the names of the national MPs. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u97	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter! I appreciate the committee’s objective study of the situation, but I am constantly troubled by the thought of thanking Tomic and Tkach, a normal bill has been prepared, but we have an Earth Code, an entire codex. Why we can't settle the code and these 13 unfortunate articles, sorry, 17 little articles, put it there. Now the first and the last will fall out, there will be fewer articles immediately, but we have to go back to the Earth Code, and it's basically accepted as an anti-national document. There are positive things there, and there are lots of things that are negative. Why is the inclusion of this project today not an element of the Codex earth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u98	Dear Yuri Antonovich, I am personally, personally! - I agree with you that this Earth code is anti-national. But from the position of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, I will point out that, in the development of this Code of Land, there are in the final positions a number of bills to be drafted in order to be able to implement it, this Code, including this bill, is going to develop article 186. This is why the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations does not see any violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u99	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u100	Thank you. Your Honor, I have a question here. Article 13 “The term of validity and conclusion of state-owned expertise. ” I find it difficult to understand the meaning of the term. It's not motivated by the bill, that's why it's me. I understand that, of course, but this should be clearly regulated, for the article itself is brief and unclear. I understand, you know, once Napoleon said how to write the Constitution: briefly and incomprehensibly. Why? Tom, so everyone can treat. Similarly, this article 13 can be treated as anything because it is short and misunderstood. Please, your opinion and the opinion of the committee on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u101	Thank you. Dear Andrew, I must tell you that it is quite clear for specialists, but you are right to use the law as a tool for all the subjects involved. So in preparing for the second reading, I think I need to make this more clear to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u102	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u103	Dear Vladimir Alexiyovich! I have a question about responsibility for expertise, responsibility for assessing how objective it is. Questions about the cost of expertise, other questions. Somehow they decide and how they need to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u104	Thank you, Vladimir Kirilovich. In general, the authors envisaged section 4 of this bill, "Responsibility for violating legislation in the field of land-based expertise", may not be clear here. So if you have specific suggestions for second reading, please submit, the committee will consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u105	Thank you. Everyone who wanted to know the question was asked. Thank you, Vladimir Alexiyovich. Let's move on to the discussion. Please give a list of the names of the national deputies who have been enrolled. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. To prepare for Yavorowski, there is no Yavorowski. Just consider that you've already taken up your time with us.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u106	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Our long-suffering Ukrainian people, the question is whether or not we should pass the law or not, "The State's Earthly Expertise." The earth code tells us that such matters must be settled by law. And from this point of view, we should thank the people's deputies and therefore the Tuck for filling this gap. True, I want to make a note that there is a very different name. Article 186 deals with the expertise of land - based documentation when it comes to speaking accurately. So what I'm proposing right now is that you change the name in the law and that it matches what's written in the Earth Code, which has already been adopted, or you have to vote and make changes, do something different. As to whether or not we should. I think today people's deputies are going to say that we need to take into account and we need to take into account the proposal that the committee has just been saying about the voluntary expertise that must be. But I have a question about how they are solved at the level of relevance in this law. The question at the point of relevance here is about one and a half percent, let's say the value where the estimate is made. Why is it exactly one and a half percent of the questions in the assessment that are recorded in the law? Isn't that too much, like, one and a half percent? There is another question about the need to adopt this law and about initiating a state-of-the-art land-use expertise, what is provided for in article 10. It says that the initiation of mandatory state-owned expertise is carried out by decision of the central local authorities, local authorities, and the approval of the court. And if the Supreme Council of Ukraine makes a decision, well, one day this extradition of the country that is currently taking place, and we're going to want to assess the cost of the land that is now being handed over to the Pans in the Vodica Desert 22 hectares, sorry about what are called a limited liability society called Dynamo, which is actually known in Ukraine as the famous party! [[Kiev]] Well, we want to know, how much is this land worth? I was told: 150 million. That's what this land is worth. This is what experts have identified. Big forest, all of it. So we're not going to be able to initiate this question?Oh, my God! So I have a supplement -- add to article 10 -- that this statement could be a deputy, the Supreme Council, so that they don't steal this land. In general, the law must be passed, but we must look to the future. Think about the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u107	Andrew Schlell. Yes, Yavorowski is gone. Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u108	Thank you. The school of Andrews, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Ukrainian National Assembly. I would, of course, like to go straight to the specifics of this bill. There was a question here and there was an answer, but it wasn't motivated enough, so I'm going to go over it again. There's an expert on the customer's cost of not more than 1.5 percent. I'm already rejecting where the 1.5 percent figure came from, but why not more? You can do less. How much less? The law can't have the words "more, less, no more and no less," have to be clearly defined by 1.5 percent or "from." And before." And it's a motivated number, why it's actually happening that way. The second thing that comes to mind here in this bill is article six of the State Earthquake Expertise Project. And here is one of the subjects of the State Land cadastre. Do we have a State Land Cadastre? We don't have a State cadastre, but we adopt a law where we can rely on what doesn't exist. Well, I don't know where he went, he just wasn't confirmed in this room, we don't have the last land cadastre, we don't know what Ukraine owns, we don't have land assessments, ladies and gentlemen, we don't have land assessments. We've discussed this before. Because there are three systems of land assessment. There's a few approaches, and we can't even say to each other that we have no idea what we have. We always say, "Ukraine is rich in black land." Why is there such a poor crop? So I want to say that these moments, these points have to be removed from this bill. I ask you very much, if we are going to talk about his acceptance, it's only in the first reading and with huge warnings, because we have problems that need to be solved, but every problem has to be solved according to the principle of dueness, not because it needs to be solved, but because it needs to be resolved well, permanently and forever. And, of course, I'm sure they will. Next. Land-building projects. Technical and economic materials for land use and protection. So here are the things that are still in the projects. It's, you know, it's like talking about raising a child that doesn't exist in the project. Of course, it is a problem; it must be brought up before birth. But in the bill, we have to write based on existing legislation. What is stated in the Earth Code on the need for an expert assessment of materials, not of the land itself, is here, in principle, I agree that the law is necessary. And whether or not to write it into the Earth Code is another question. But the fact that the bill itself has to be prepared more clearly and that we have no right to rely on air. If we rely on something that doesn't exist, we can't do anything real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u109	Vladimir Cherniak, please prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, the order of groundbreaking expertise is not regulated by law. It is regulated by regulations. This order must be brought into line with the Codex earth. The adoption of this bill will contribute to a more efficient use of land protection. I support the proposal to adopt the bill in the first reading, but make substantial amendments in the process of preparing it for the second reading. What do I mean? First. The name of the law and its contents should be added accordingly. It's different. It is clear when expertise should be mandatory and when it should be voluntary. And what difference does it make? Third. We need to be clear about the subjects of the expertise, and that's what this is about in Article 5. Four. We need to write more clearly a novel on the cost of expertise. Fifth. We need to write more clearly the mechanism of responsibility for expertise. If it is not objective, if the earth’s assessment is not properly determined, it will be held responsible for it, how it is responsible, how it is not paid, who is responsible, who is responsible. Usually all our bills suffer and limp on this very leg. We don't define or write out the mechanism of responsibility. If the law is broken, if the earth is inadequately assessed in this case and so on. Perhaps what has been said here must be written separately for legal and physical persons. And finally the sixth. This issue needs to be put in a broader context, the context of the assessment of land and land cadastre in general. If we have a land cadastre, if we have an assessment of the land, the criteria are clearly defined, the ways, the mechanisms, then it will be possible to do more radically and more adequately and properly carry out the assessment of the land. Once again, I want to say that we have reason to adopt the law in the first reading, because it is a very important, topical subject that requires a solution. And we have the opportunity to prepare for the second reading to improve it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u111	National Deputy Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, prepare for Blackwall. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u112	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] First of all, in one of the constant first speakers, I want to say that I personally don't understand what the term "esupply" of power is, but in a large way, I think it's better than its "carmanization," in fact. In view of the fact that there is a valid position at present regarding the conduct of land-based expertise approved by the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources, the law is absolutely necessary. Its adoption will allow regulation at the legislative level of state-owned land-based expertise, determine cases of mandatory or selective state-owned expertise, establish sources of funding for its implementation. But the faction of the BPO has its own observations. The bill contains inadequacies. Paragraph 2 of the 2nd draft stipulates that the Act does not extend to the regulation of relations related to the conduct of scientific and technical expertise, judicial and other types of expertise. At the same time, the position regarding the preparation of well-founded conclusions on land protection issues, which is part of the first article of the first project, as well as the position on the assessment of the conformity of environmental safety requirements with the environmental safety requirements of the third article of this project, relates to the scope of the application of the State environmental land use expertise provided for in article 14 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. In addition, in the same paragraph, the third, article 3 of the project is about assessing the relevance of subjects of expertise to the current level of scientific and technical knowledge, to trends in scientific and technological progress that affect the task of scientific and technical expertise. The other one. The objects listed in Article 6 of the National Earthquake Expertise Project need to be detailed to ensure that they are consistent with the objects covered by the mandatory and selective state-of-the-art expertise of Article 7th and 8th respectively. In the proposed form, there is a complete discrepancy between objects of different levels of government expertise. In our view, it is not appropriate to include in the list of sites of compulsory state-owned land-use expertise interstate land protection programs implemented under Ukraine’s international treaties within its territory. Because similar programs are carried out by those in line with the commitments made, and in this case it can be fully agreed with the management’s view that this expertise cannot only take place in the stages of solving the issue of Ukraine’s participation in the relevant international programme. The bill also does not contain rules on the time limit for the acquisition of the law, by the way, and there are no final clauses. In general, according to the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, the bill could be based on the need to take all the additions made into account. [[United]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u113	Taras Cranville, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u114	Dear colleagues! Dear Chief! The problem is that land management is always associated with a number of very serious problems, both moral and criminal, and so forth. And that's why I have some warnings and concerns that apply specifically to this law. There are also many things that are not clearly stated in the Code of Earth, and I think that when there are some inconsistencies, first of all, we need to go to the basic document. With regard to, say, articles 6, and, in part, 7, 8 of this law. So it's not exactly like me, it's in line with part three of article 186 of the Earth Code. First you have to do the basic document and then you have to do the subcontracting. Regrettably, the law is not clear enough, and neither the purpose nor the task are visible. And the main thing is that for this law, it's painful enough -- there's no final clause to ensure that there's agreement with other laws and laws. There are a lot of problems with this and with the input terms. I personally cooperate with many landscaping services. More, true, in a city than in a village where there may be fewer problems in the city, but I'll tell you that in a city without expertise today in Lviv, especially almost, and also in the Lviv region, almost 100 percent of the expertise on all the absolute documents that are being submitted would just be an elementary chaos. I am in favour of giving up the mandatory state expertise as soon as possible, but to date, the preparation of documents and the practice of carrying out these documents through appropriate land commissions and local councils, unfortunately, is provided for such overlays that just when we get outside with axes, with pitchforks, and so forth. So I think that the law needs very serious work and some delay in its introduction. Plus, it's about funding. I don't see a particular problem with the funding system that is today in terms of financing state expertise. It is calm enough, does not use painful consumerism, does not speak of private, physical persons, and does not seriously strike legal persons. Is it worth introducing this point that is clear from the State Budget so clearly that you can enter those interest rates instead of using the current system, I'm not sure, I don't think you should. Among other things, the law is sinful because it is not really distributed to the State Commission and its local branches in areas, cities, and so forth. I think that by law I have to work seriously, I haven't yet decided whether to vote in the first reading, or on the second reading I'm going to recommend it, which is what I'm looking at and consulting my colleagues. But I certainly ask not to accept it as a whole, for there is still much work to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've already completed our consideration of the matter. Let's take a brief position with the State Commission. Just a minute, Comin'. We're doing a literary expertise here whether we named your last name or not. Wait a minute. Please. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ The National Deputies draft of the Ukrainian Law on State-ordered Expertise does not take fully into account the requirements of article 186 of the Earth Code, which states that the ground-based expert is subject to all the land-order documentation, without exception. We do not fully understand the meaning of the State’s orderly expertise is divided into mandatory and selective. And when it comes to sampling, the law allows for only 10 percent of the documentation to be verified by the State Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, we have quite a number of problems with land relations, and this has been confirmed literally for several days during government hearings. We very much ask you not to support this bill because we believe it will not further the development of state-owned expertise. That's the first one. And the second one is short. On January 16, 2003, an alternative law on Ukraine’s land administration was adopted in this Hall, which was passed by Zubec, Gavrish, Hare, and Kirilenko. This, however, is the case with the alternative law on land, but there are a number of articles that are devoted to state-owned expertise. If you are to make changes and additions, or some good standards, in earth’s order of expertise, you may want to do so in the law you have already adopted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u116	Thank you. I think we need a better committee to work with the Supreme Council's profile committee, then there probably wouldn't be these differences and there wouldn't be any discovery when you speak today, you're talking about them. Carmazine, please. Dear colleagues, please, let's continue our work for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u117	Carmazin, Party of Protectors of Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, now one of the performances has my last name crossed. I wouldn't want us to go to personification. And if I talked about the threat in the state that one single party that lost the election was politically lost, people didn't support it, who now appoints prosecutors, appoints judges, appoints governors, appoints everyone, and takes everyone today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u118	Turn off the microphone, please. Dear colleagues, there is a great request and the committee requests that we now consider a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on regulation of activities in the agricultural sector of the economy. You know, the problem is extremely painful, let's talk about it quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u119	Chush, the Socialist faction. Dear colleagues, Laws 3021, 2207 and 3060 are proposed for your consideration. 3021 authors: Vastuk, Tsusko, this law on the extension of the tax, fixed tax on APC enterprises. The APC Committee considered, supported the bill in its first reading, because the laws of the rest of our colleagues absorb the law. Next. Today's Finance Committee, because it's a tax law that has been reviewed and also suggested that we consider it. The Committee on Finance has proposed that, where we offer 75 per cent of gross, we increase, on the contrary, that enterprises that have both agricultural and other production, because now we have joined the confetti factories, and that you want to have two balance sheets: what the APC has, there is a benefit, on the other hand, pay the tax. Next. I want to report to you that the Ministry of Finance has supported the DPA, the tax inspection has supported, supported the APC Ministry as the leading ministry, in general, the Government has supported, but the only request if we vote Thursday to adopt it on first reading, because, for example, the tax administration has made good proposals to improve the law, but in accordance with practice, and should really be taken into account in the second reading. And let us say that if this whole law were to be adopted as a basis of 3021, it would take into account the proposals made by the colleague of Shevchenko and other colleagues who would submit. I'll finish my statement on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u120	Peter Stepanovich, please. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u121	Thank you. Communist faction, Deputy Cibenko. Dear reporter, I, like you, like a lot here in the hall, the patriot of the agrarian sector, and I would like this document to be accepted. But as head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons, I have to ask two questions and determine my position depending on their answer. The first question, when it comes to a simplified system, we need to understand that this is about reduced counting, including government trust funds. So tell me, who's gonna make the difference, the difference that the agrarian sector won't pay? And question two. You know, it's like we're supporting an agricultural producer. But in this way we can punish the pensioner. What are we talking about? And the point is that today a personalized bill is already in place, and then there's not an accrual of salary, but actually a deduction, that is, a reduced calculation. And by the time the pension is counted, a lower amount of income will be taken, and then a person will be ordered the size of the pension. I want us to get a better idea of what the problem is.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u122	Peter Stepanovich, I fully agree with you that this is a problem. We need to address the question of how, in this situation, pensioners have been exposed to those problems. But if we do not extend the fixed tax, we will destroy the entire agricultural production and then there will be no deductions at all. So I agree with you, and I suggest that the law be considered on Thursday, because we usually give it on the hour immediately on the first, second reading. Only on first reading and second reading will this matter be resolved. But the quickest answer will be that. That we will have to address this issue through the country's budget for the Pension Fund. Because at the expense of the village, if you count completely and there you learned how to charge your salary, you said nothing would fall into the Pension Fund. And the pensioners need to be provided with a pension. That's why I agree with you. There's a problem. But more professionally, I think your committee will understand more and propose a second reading to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u123	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u124	Thank you. I have a question specific to my colleague Zibank's question. Now look at today's day for a person who works for a payer who pays taxes on an average of 146 dollars, and for a fixed agricultural tax payer, this is 15 dollars. So if once a colporteur was punished, a passport was taken away, then we can punish our agricultural worker with that minimum zero pension. Please tell me, I have a specific question for the committee. Do you think it's a good idea to continue the operation of a fixed agricultural tax on the condition that he makes payments to the Pension Fund?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u125	I'll say no. Why? Because you know perfectly well. Well, my dear friend Suhi, you know perfectly well that today at a fixed tax, the village doesn't pay, doesn't pay, it can tell you, yes, and you know very well. And any major who has rural areas in the county is not paid. Therefore, the solution to this issue is not a fixed tax, not a flat tax, but a village to pay to the Pension Fund, it will not pay. Since we want nothing to change, we need to solve the issue with the source of the pensioners and the Pension Fund, find the money, but not in that plane. I'll call you the plane of that. So the whole group of 1.24 is not to be released, it is an agricultural group, through free economic zones, through free trade contracts, and taxing them both in the budget, and here is the solution. That's the solution: excise goods, not what the Ministry of Economics just signed, I don't remember, two weeks ago or a week ago, for 90,000 crumbs. What about our bird factories? Gaplik, I'm sorry for the expression. This is the source, and you're with me, you know that we signed this law with you. My colleague Zibenko will agree to that, too. Here are our holes, the black holes in our budget and the Pension Fund, including. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u126	Stanislaw Nikolainko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u127	Dear Vassil Petrovich. Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party, Hersonian. Well, you know, our faction was among the initiators of this law. But I have a question for you, Vasil Petrovich. Today, the farmers' wages are up to 10 billion, the bank debt is 13 billion dollars, 8 billion receivables. No one's going to give that to the peasants either. The fact that we've reduced tax pressure means that the state has gone with the tax burden, instead the middleman has come and washed away all these costs. What do you think the next steps are, you were talking about it to stop it? It's a question of credit, it's a question of price and pricing, it's a question of price control. I've been talking to businessmen, and they say, "There are no intermediaries in Germany between, say, a company that produces pesticides and an agricultural producer." We've got a bunch of middlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u128	Dear Stanislav Nikolaevich! Literally, on Friday, a round table was held at the initiative of the Vice-Prime Minister for the village of Ivan Grigorievich Kirilenka, where these issues were discussed, I attended this meeting. And eventually, I remind you, you were in the last assembly, there was the Terehin bill, Tsuko's about the features of agricultural lending. [[Well, not because it's my last name.]] This law has made it possible to develop the mechanism that exists in the European Union. [[Then we took him, to be honest, to borrow from the European Union.]] Well, what did we do? The first reading was adopted, and then thanks to our colleagues, and we need to take into account that there are two agrarian lobbyes in our Parliament: an agrarian lobby that supports, or agrarians that support those who work on the ground, and agrarians who do mediation functions, that is, take the grain and take it out. And then there's such a blow to the village that it won't get up, give a donation, it'll be a black hole. Therefore, the answer to that round table was to support the agrarian committee, which had taken the basis of the law adopted on first reading, but it had grown old, and in 1999 it had submitted, finalized and submitted here to the Supreme Council as a comprehensive one. Second. Introduce seasonal duties on grain exports to make it uncomfortable for us to export in September-October, and from February they should be exported. Then the money will go to our peasant. There's still a bunch of measures if we want to take it, literally, before cleaning it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u129	Mikola Melnik. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u130	Dear Vassil Petrovich! For the village, a fixed agricultural tax is, of course, a way out of the critical economic situation that has taken place in the village.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u131	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u132	But it has to be said that the agricultural tax not only serves peasants but also serves crime, which launders the costs by using agricultural taxes. As you think, can't we change to the agricultural tax articles so that we don't wash the money away, and the money goes into the state, into the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u133	I answered that question. Today, the Finance Committee is considering this issue under the rules of the authors and the law in force so that we do not limit 50 per cent of the gross product produced by agricultural production. Not 75, but to have a double balance, by the way, when we gave the book publishers a discount, we introduced it. So if we're making agricultural products, one count, you're making industrial, another account. And then it will serve the farmer who makes the agricultural product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u134	Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u135	Thank you. Dear Vassil Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! I understand why this bill is being passed and I may vote for it, but it's hard for me to do it, I understand that you want to support agriculture, but the problem is that it's a fire. We support the wrong end, we support it through a system of measures, at prices, at the removal of intermediaries, at income, at wages, and then there'll be normal taxes, normal pensions, and everything will be. We've been doing it all the time by putting out forest fires, and we're still doing it, and still, how a firefight can be supported, but only in the context of some promising policy, which will be the next steps to support us from the end where agriculture is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u137	Dear Vladimir Kirilovich, I am very consistent on this matter. We have tabled a bill with Terehina - Terehin-Cuzko - on a comprehensive solution to these issues. I'm sorry. Parliament adopted it only on first reading and then a fixed tax law was passed. And that's what they forgot. But now the round table has come to a conclusion that issues need to be addressed in an integrated manner. That is why today this is a necessity for peasants. Imagine if we stop this law this year under current weather conditions, there will be no Ukrainian agricultural sector at all. It's fire methods, yeah. We're renewing. But this should stimulate Min APC, the Government, our committees to come up with an integrated solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u138	Thank you, Vasil Grigorovitch. Thank you. Have a seat. Please, Alexander Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u139	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Honourable People's Deputies, Alexander Shevchenko, 39 constituency, Dnipropetrovska, Agrarian Party of Ukraine. For your consideration, draft Law No. 2207 on fixed agricultural taxes is proposed. This is due to the need to create a level playing field for fixed taxes, to reform agricultural enterprises, and to research, research and research farms, scientific institutions, educational institutions. Part four of article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Fixed Agricultural Taxation applies to the amount of the tax collected to the amount of the tax collected by the increased coefficients, if the amount of taxes and assemblies in the agricultural sector is recorded in 97 years above the amount of the fixed tax, respectively, in 3-4 and more times. This requirement does not extend to the reform of agriculture, and at the same time it applies to state-owned enterprises, such as research, research, scientific institutions and educational institutions. We have to say that the number of the latter is very small -- 147 in scientific institutions and 16 in higher education institutions -- 3-4 in accreditation. The draft law does not provide for the application of increasing coefficients to all informed and state-owned agricultural enterprises, including research and research on the holdings of scientific institutions and educational institutions, fixed agricultural tax payers. On the basis of the above, I ask you, honourable national MPs, to support this bill, such as one that will improve the state of affairs, especially in research, research, scientific institutions and educational institutions, and put agriculture at the level of conditions. Thank you for your attention. That's where the educational institutions count.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u140	It's written there. Have a seat, please. Ivan Sidorovich Boki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u141	Boki, the Socialist faction. Our bill is the shortest. It foresees a continuation of the Single Agricultural Tax Act by 2010. And from the same discussion that took place, it's clear that it's a really fireful event, but in the conditions that have come together and that, everyone understands that they're not going to get any better in the near future, I think it's the only way to help the village and the villagers and to save the situation in the village that's already gone bankrupt. In addition, the Pension Fund has already been mentioned here, before both the mediators and I'm stuck and so on, I'd like to give another one of the reasons why this problem has arisen. As you know, it came about in the 97th year, when Alexander Frost's initiative immediately adopted this law, which was in force in several parts of our republic, and then in 98, a law was passed that became law for all of Ukraine. The point is that by the year 93, the village was getting wet, since the year 93, we went to Ukrainian know-how, when the village was released, and then all of these problems arose. And now they're being added to the problems of the Pension Fund and no problems, they're all understandable and they're all painful, but I think in order to save the villagers today, we need to agree that this law needs to continue its operation, well, at least until at least the tenth year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u142	Thank you, Ivan Sidorovich, you too. Please, Ministry of Agrarian Politics. And Oleg Ivanovich Yukhnowsky, please, from the committee, I'm sorry, I'm not.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u143	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations has carefully considered a bill that has just been reported by the National Deputies and proposes to adopt the draft Law 3021, the authors of the National Deputies Ivacyuk, Tsusko. The proposals made by Alexander Shevchenk and John Boki in projects 2207 and 3060 are included in the second reading. Such a proposal will be supported by the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, which will be supported by the Cabinet of Ministers with some observations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u144	Thank you. Please, from the Cabinet of Ministers, First Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy Yuri Yakovitch Luzan.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u145	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. First of all, I want to say that the Ministry of Agrarian Policy really supports this bill. And if you remember that this law, the introduction of this tax was introduced with the aim of supporting agricultural producers and maximizing the simplification of agricultural taxation, and experts estimate that a fixed agricultural tax during its lifetime has had a positive impact on agricultural development. And I want to say that these trends, due to the introduction of this tax, the tax burden on agricultural producers has been reduced threefold, and during this time the mass of taxes by agricultural producers has increased 2.1 times. So there's a positive trend. And another thing that I would like to say for this reason is that virtually all the countries of the SND have also gone our way and introduced a fixed agricultural tax in one form or another. That is to say, the purpose of this direction was to tax agriculture. I want to say that a number of objective reasons for the period of fixed agricultural tax have not enabled you to stabilize the situation in the field and today you feel what is happening in the field. So the Ministry of Agrarian Policy is asking for the support of this bill, we believe that it will continue to have a positive impact on the development of the sector, and in the meantime, we will be able, along with other ministries, to create new mechanisms with the National Deputies, and to implement a comprehensive approach to support agricultural development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u146	Dear colleagues, the parties have made their views known, so let's maybe agree to that and vote on Thursday's decision, yes. Is there no objection? Thus, the review of the draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts regulating the agricultural sector of the economy has been completed. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u147	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! There are two questions that I want to ask that we have to kill here, and it has to be taken into account. First. Let's think about what happens if we don't adopt these laws? Grapes, gardening, and hops will also be ruined. It's the first draft of the law. We have to take it, no questions asked. We have to continue until 2009. The second question. If we change now and enter into the legal relations that arise under pension legislation, what will happen? And so today we are solving the problems of some pensioners at the expense of other pensioners, and there is already a terrible problem. If we now unconditionally adopt these laws that are still being proposed, and ask the question that there will be no source of funding, we'll put the Pension Fund in condition when He'll be completely paralyzed. He's not going to pull that load. Let's take the conclusions from these committees of profile, from the Pensioners Committee, we'll take it from the Pension Fund, we'll take it from the Ministry of Social Policy, and then we'll just take these legislative acts, because we can do bad. What we are going to say today is that today problems are solved in a way that is necessary through excise, tax closure. We have to do this, but you have to understand that we're not going to solve this kind of fire thing right now. So I would not want us to offend some pensioners at the expense of others. Both of us are poor, both of us need help. I'm just calling you, let's not cut the heat here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues thus consider the draft law amending certain legislative acts. Please. Anatoly Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u149	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you for your statement, although I did sign up for the performance, but as my colleagues, colleagues, national deputies have said here, that we will always tell you that when we come to the discussion of the agro-industrial complex, we do all of this really in the fire order. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I told you once, let's go back to the practice that was established at the time when he was chairman of the Supreme Council Tkachenko Alexander Mikolayovich. When we asked some questions, one or the other, we blocked all the bills that came from the people's deputies, the Cabinet of Ministers of the President's Administration, and we considered them. Then it was said that nothing had been forgotten; it had all come together and really adopted the laws that worked. Today, look, if you look at today's order this week, just eight laws, three in the first reading and one in the second reading. That's how we take care of the village. Another question. I'd like to pay attention. Again, we have a fixed tax on fire. But let's finally evaluate our land according to its fertility and introduce the only tax on land in the state. How short the fiscal apparatus will be! How much easier it will be for a peasant! Finally, he will be interested in producing as many products as possible and so forth. That's why I'd like to, and Vladimir Mikhailovich, and the honourable colleagues, that we end up taking over the agrarian sector in a more human way, not in case we're covering holes, and we're just saying that we're doing this in a fire order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m1.u150	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the regulation of activities in the agricultural sector of the economy has been completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. I'd like to say to our distinguished colleague, if the committee proposes a list of legislative acts, we'll set a day or two or three, I think you'll all support, consider and make the right decision. The initiative should come from the committee, from the national deputies. So, dear colleagues, allow the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be declared closed, tomorrow we will continue our work at 10 a.m. We'll be on schedule for the week. Thanks for working together.
