ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:43]] Registered -430 There are 430 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputies of the Ukraine of Mihowich John Ivanovich, Sevkovich Vladimir Leonidovich and Yukhnovy Oleg Ivanovich. Let's welcome them and wish them well. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputies Potek Mikhail Alexiyyovich from the Democratic Initiatives Group. Dear colleagues, I ask your attention, we will now have to vote on a very important issue. We've received a draft of the State Budget from the Cabinet of Ministers. According to the Budget Code, five days after receipt, this budget will be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On the Conciliation Council, we agreed, in view of the importance of this issue, to consider the matter at 13 o’clock for two hours. Then exchange thoughts and visions about the budget process in committees and factions. But according to the Rules, we need to take a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why I'm putting a proposal to the vote. One minute, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich. Take down the vote. The Microphone of the people’s deputy, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I understand that I may have apologized, not attended the Conciliation Council on Monday. Perhaps we agreed on our schedule for this week. On Wednesday, which is today, for 15 hours, I know most of the committees have assigned their meetings. And it will address very important issues, including the invitation of certain officials. In particular, our committee will consider the issues on which the Attorney General of Ukraine has been invited. I don't think we should be taking the State Budget project out so quickly today. If there is such a need, let the head of the appropriate committee of profile, that is, Mr. Dustenko, give us an explanation of why and why this is being proposed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u3	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking for your attention again. I want to inform you that it's in line with the Budget Code that we should consider it on Tuesday. We're breaking the budget code. So if we start it at 14 o'clock, we can look at this document for an hour. We have made this decision on the Conciliation Council to propose, and you are to be identified as honorary colleagues. In view of the tremendous number of questions that have been proposed to be considered at 14 hours. I don't see any problem here. So I'm voting on the proposal, I'm voting on the proposal -- at 14 o'clock to consider presenting the budget to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask you to vote. Please vote. [[10:08:02]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! Before I go to the national MPs' statements with statements, messages, information, I, with your permission, if there's no objection, will announce the requests that have come. They're over 50. And I'm asking the deputies to sign up for the speech. Please sign up for the performance. On the board, please. Yeah, can I get a request? A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Jury Solomatin to the President of Ukraine on taking into account the attitude of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on improving the efficiency of drug use in Ukraine in connection with the issuance of the President’s relevant decree of June 6, 2003. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:09:34]] For-127 The decision is not taken. Bogdan Kostinuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of additional grants to the local budgets of the region of Ivano-Franco for the implementation of the rules of the law establishing the minimum wage for 2003. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:05]] For 132 Decision taken. Group of National Deputies of Borszewski, Kolesnik and Šibko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, regarding the situation on the New Mine of the City of Yellow Waters of the Dnipropetrov region in connection with uncontrolled flooding. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:41]] For-188. Decision taken. Anatolia Átovajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the repayment of the debt on the wages paid to miners of the Light Coal Association Yellow Coal Mine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:12]] For 148 Decision taken. Mr. Eduard Gurvitz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the situation arising from the monopolization in air transport by airlines Airworld and. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:47]] For 158. Decision taken. Mikola Katerinczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inappropriate reaction of the prosecutor’s authorities to the MP’s appeal. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:15]] For-119 Decision taken. People's Deputies' Groups Bronnikov, Alexandrovska, Robotics to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to maintain state control over the open shareholder society of the Harkow Research Institute of Energy Project. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:47]] For 168 Decision taken. Valentina Seminouk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to take account of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's submission to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the decision of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatisation for a Representative from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as part of the Commission for Privatization of the Open Shareholder Society "Ukretelekom". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:24]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Stanislava Kosinov to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the scale of compensation to persons with disabilities for petrol, technical and transport services for cars. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:54]] For-163 Decision taken. Bogdan Kostinuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for violations of the right of education to benefits from housing and utility services provided by the Ukrainian Education Act. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:21]] For 197 Decision taken. Paul Žebrovsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of oil products for the autumn field work complex in the Žitomir region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:47]] For-143 Decision taken. Stanislava Kosinov to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, on the provision of disabled cars in the Kharkiv region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:16]] For-160. Decision taken. Victor Turmanov to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the gravity of the criminal investigation of a state-of-the-art transport accident in the Donetsk region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:44]] For 175 Decision taken. Mikoli Katerinczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on a criminal case for the murder of a former judge of the Court of Arbitration in Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:11]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Vladimir Yavoriviski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the conduct of senior officials led by the President of Ukraine, aimed at betraying Ukraine’s national interests in connection with the intention of signing an agreement on the creation of a single economic space. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:45.]] For 121 Decision taken. People's Deputies Groups: Dobkin, Feldman, is only four national deputies, to the Head of the High Council of Justice, the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Head of the Court of Appeal of Kiev for violating the principles of justice. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:17]] Z-91 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine regarding the legality of the work of the resident of the Kirovograd district of Kozick. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:42]] For-100 Decision taken. Edward Gurvis to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine regarding the unjustified value of Ukraine’s visa for citizens of the State of Israel. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:11]] For-136 Decision taken. Eugene Jovtak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the groundlessness of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the construction of a technical passenger station between the city of Vishnev and the village of Sofia Borsztagovka. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:45.]] For a-117. Decision taken. Bogdan Kostinuk and Roman Tkač to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the prevention of the destruction of the folk architecture in the village of Delev Ivano-Frankiv region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:11]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Valery Mishura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the construction of the office-goal complex of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine in the territory of the State Historical and Architectural Reserve of the Old Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:42]] For 121 Decision taken. Vitalia Olujka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the increase in fuel prices during the autumn field work. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:09]] For-97 Decision taken. People's Deputies Groups: Baloga, Ivancho, Mihovic, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funds for the completion of the construction of the children's corps of a districtal allergic hospital in the village of the city type Solotvino Zakarta district. [[10:20:45.]] For 207 Decision taken. Georgia Manchulenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of the Ukrainian Institute of Military History and State Support for War History. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:13]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Victor Pinzenik and Yuri Orobac to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding violations by the Ukrainian Regional Administration of Ukrainian Law on Forest Management and Forestry. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:43]] For 132 Decision taken. Vladimir Yeshchenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to comply with Ukraine's law on the status of war veterans, guaranteeing their social protection by authorities of local self-government in Cherkasa. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:12]] For 131 Decision taken. George Slabenka to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, John Kirilenko, for the repair of the production of children's food by the Vladimir Volin canning plant. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:42]] For 121 Decision taken. Mikli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of the use of the loan received from the utility company Cherkaske Resource Company. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:11]] For 133 Decision taken. John Mihowich to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the construction of an environmentally hazardous facility on Zakarpat. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:36]] For the 120th. Decision taken. Viktor Gorbachev to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the Office of the Prosecutor of the Mikolai district regarding the unlawful actions of employees of the Department of the Department of Internal Affairs of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine of the Mikolai region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:09]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Bogdan Kostinuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reasons for the increase in fuel prices and the provision of oil products to the agricultural producer. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:37]] For-170. Decision taken. Groups of National Deputys - Volinz, Lukyanenko, School and others - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, the Head of the Coordinating Committee to Combat Organized Crime with the President of Ukraine on ensuring the rule of law in the exercise of its powers by the customs authorities of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:16]] For-141 Decision taken. Michael Melniczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of information on the course of criminal investigation concerning the purposeless use of budget funds by former employees of the Montenegrin District State Administration. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:49]] For-151 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the illegal sale of municipal property of the district communities and the city of Kylia, the premises of the former kindergarten. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:20]] For-140. Decision taken. Jury Kostinuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of building a building on the coastline of the Mali Salgir River in Simferopol. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:48]] For-100 Decision taken. Mikoli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for strengthening the monitoring of the investigation of violence against journalists in Zaporozhye region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:18]] For-127 Decision taken. Mikhail Melniczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of land degradation legislation by the heads of the Zaporzik, Cherkaskie, Ivano-Frankko region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:55]] For-144 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the Coordinating Committee to Combat Organized Crime and Corruption under the President of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the involvement of individual employees of the District Office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the province of Ravensk for the abuse of office, the overriding of official authority. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:37]] For 1052 Decision taken. Maria Markusz to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the use of the children’s preschool facilities in the village of Wilkhivci lies in the Tachiv district of Zakartat district to accommodate the elementary classes of secondary school. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:08]] For 135 Decision taken. John Mihowich to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine regarding the rightfulness of the mining of dolomite in the village of Dilova Rakhov district of Zakarpat. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:41]] For a-117. Decision taken. Tarasa Crnovil to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on ensuring the free will of Ukrainian citizens at polling stations at diplomatic representations of Ukraine abroad. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:11]] For 114 Decision taken. Mary Markusz to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on the elimination of violations of Ukrainian legislation regarding the disability of the second group of the Great Homeland War of the resident of the city of Tatevi. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:42.]] For 133 Decision taken. People's Deputies - Klukkowski, Olijnik, only four national deputies - to the head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of Ukrainian customs legislation by the head of Western Regional Customs. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:31:12]] For-163 Decision taken. People's Deputies Group - Kirilczuk, Pavlovski, only five national deputies - to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the provision of constitutional guarantees for the judicial protection of Ukrainian citizens. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:31:42]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Tarasa Cranovila is head of the Ukrainian State Border Service for providing information on the number of Ukrainian citizens who have crossed the border of Ukraine and are abroad. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:32:12]] For-92 Decision taken. Stepan Cloud to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the violation of a criminal case against the head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund in connection with corruption and abuse of official status associated with events around the Clean Metals Shareholder Society. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:32:48]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Mikhayla Radionova to head the Kyiv City State Administration for the violation of the right to education in the Holy District of Kyiv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:33:14]] Z-91 Decision taken. People's Deputies - Movcan, Shirko, only four national deputies - to the Minister of Culture and Arts of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the non-privatization of the Spasovo-Premises Inter-Igorian Monastery in the Visgrad region of Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:33:51]] For 115 Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Bank of Ukraine, on corruption in judicial and banking systems related to the liquidation of the Inko stockholder bank, resulting in financial losses to the state budget, losses to businesses and the population of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:34:28]] For 133 Decision taken. Alla Alexandrovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the improper state of budgetary financing of the Kharkiv State Research Institute of Metrology. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:34:57]] For 113 Decision taken. National Deputy Mironka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-use of fuel and energy measures by Minister Jermilov for the modernization and preparation of the Kames-Burun TEC in Kerch for the heating season. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:35:28]] For-119 Decision taken. The MP's requests are all voted in. Ladies and gentlemen, we have spent thirty - five minutes. Why don't we have another 30 minutes? At the request of the national deputy, Kirilczuk, I once again put to the vote the parliamentary request of a group of national deputies: Kirilczuk, Pavlovski - only five deputies, to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for the provision of constitutional guarantees for the defence of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. [[10:36:31]] For 199 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't have any objection, let's have another half-hour of public speaking, and then at 12 o'clock we won't take breaks and work. We're already in violation of the Rules. Joseph Wynsky, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please, Peter Cibenko. One minute, I'm sorry, Joseph Vicentiovich. Replica, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko. The Microphone of the National MP Zibank.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u4	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Zibenko. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have made a decision with you today to hold a budget presentation today. Decision taken. But I'm asking you, let's look for an opportunity to start this process at least at 12:30, because, in fact, at the 15th, very responsible committee meetings are assigned. Let's try 12.30 on this. It's important, but it's important to meet committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u5	Let's watch how we do it. If we quickly consider a few laws that we also have urgent laws. Please, Joseph Vicentiovich. Prepare Ponomarenko Georgia.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! Yesterday was three years from the day journalist Georgia Gongadze was assassinated. All over Ukraine, the opposition carried out actions to honor this man. George Gongadze’s memorial sign has been established near the city of Tarsti. It's been three years. However, today we can't answer the main question: "Who killed Gongadze and who was the buyer of this murder?" Regrettably, for three years the Ukrainian judicial authorities have proved unable to date an evaluation, although everyone knows everything, everyone knows who ordered it, and now it is known who was the immediate perpetrator of the situation. That's why I think we should do everything, like the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I insist on that, the opposition, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the criminals have to sit in prison. Next question. The situation is in an agro-industrial complex. From the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, we are talking about this topic for the tenth time, and unfortunately, the Supreme Council remains deaf to the key problem of the life of Ukraine, its people. The situation in the village is catastrophic. The measures taken by the government are completely inadequate, and sometimes unprofessional. The situation is deepening. We went to purchase grain outside Ukraine this year. I don't know how it's going to work, whether they're going to buy it or not, but I have to say that today in Ukraine, we're going to continue our course of not having grain again in 2004. You know the financial situation in the country today, the farms don't have the financial capacity to provide spring work. You know, the oil traders once again went to the concoction, they abruptly raised the prices on fire and on fire, and the state was unable to stop this "screw." Today, there is no soybean material. I literally had a conversation on Saturday with one of the heads of the church that was sown under these conditions. I asked him, "Where did you get the sown material?".. He said to me, "I've collected from people the grain that I gave them a year ago as a natural wage and pay for pies and I'm sowing this seed today." I ask, the Supreme Council understands that this soybean material will not have crops again in Ukraine in the following year. The Socialist Party faction insists that we ask questions about the Supreme Council's ruling on the APC, and we have to take it tomorrow. Tomorrow, we insist. We can't drag it any further, or it's just that the Supreme Council has to resign, because it's a crime before the state and Ukraine's agriculture, when you and I can't give any political assessment or take any action to remedy the situation in the country. I call on the people's deputies who are sitting in the hall today. Think about it! Then there can be no attitude of the Supreme Council toward the village. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u7	Ponomarenko is handing over his right to speak to Valeria Mishuri. Please prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u8	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear fellow national MPs! Opening today’s session, the Head of the Supreme Council rightly, though too late, drew attention to the problem of ignoring and distorting our historical past, seeing it because of the prism of uneducated tragic fate, injustice and suffering. Sadly, you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, were shyly silenced and who is involved. I must say that the Presidential Administration, now headed by Victor Medvedchuk, who is not only a constitutional body, has become such an ideological office, but rather an anti-communist political office. Here's a copy of the document that makes it eloquent. The Kyiv Memorial, along with the Ukrainian organizations of the United States and Canada, is not a labor force, but political emigration primarily prepared a museum exhibition, 54 posters called "Forgetable." From the point of view, it's kind of a primitive, black, cavern, anti-communist agate. I emphasize, it's a political agita. Thus, by letter dated August 25, this year, issue 02011427, signed by Medvedchuk, assigns the following to the Head of the Council of Ministers of Crimea, heads of State administrations and districts of Kiev and Sevastopol. To assign the responsible employee who receives these posters and instructions in the memorial, to organize exhibitions in museums, cultural institutions, and to emphasize, in educational institutions, the military parts to the heads of administrations personally open these exhibitions, and local administrations should inform the President's Administration of the work carried out during August-December by 20 each month. Millions of Ukrainian citizens who, by their triumphant work and feat, have brought Soviet Ukraine into the tens of the most economically and culturally developed states, on behalf of millions of citizens who have created a completely different history of Ukraine than shown on posters, the faction of Communists together with them has expressed its strong opposition to such actions by the President's Administration. And also in line with article 15 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which declares that no ideology can be recognized by the State as compulsory, the faction requires that this letter be revoked or that another letter be sent to the ideological balance by which local administrations are obliged to provide libraries, educational institutions and military parts with the materials of the meetings restored ten years ago by the Communist Party to organize a thorough study of these materials and to inform the President's Administration of the first number of each month. Not surprisingly, it is also convenient for a relative of anticonstitutional robberies to block the work of the National Television and Radio Council when the head makes decisions that the secretary does not sign. And these two examples eloquently testify to him. The administration takes a break before the next election, which, by means of internal and external factors, it again wants to turn into dirty and cynical. And the people, they say in Pushkin, are silent. And his most enlightened part, which is intelligence, continues to swallow this poisonous political food. For now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u9	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Next one's gonna be Chelnokov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u10	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, honourable citizens! I would like to draw your attention to an extremely important aspect of our activity, to the activities of the judiciary. The judiciary and justice in Ukraine, whose task is to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms and citizens under the rule of law, are now in a deep crisis, as is society. In fact, the new Ukrainian Sudokus Act, which provided for the reform of the judiciary, only deepened its crisis. In the general and local courts of Ukraine, 1 out of every 6 civilians, 1 out of 5 criminal cases, remained unresolved. At the same time, the general appeals courts remained unladen. There has been an increase in the burden on the local courts, and the bureaucracy of the courts has increased, making them less accessible to the population, and there has been an increase in the number of judicial errors, a violation of judicial ethics by judges, which is evidenced by a significant increase in complaints about the work of the courts. The four-blooded system of courts with a repeat case concerning the unknown European world legal science and the construction of the judiciary is provided by the Ukrainian Law on the Court of Justice of Ukraine, which provides for the possibility of repeatedly canceling final court decisions with the return of cases to a new hearing, does not comply with the principle of the rule of law for a fair hearing in the reasonable terms of legal certainty enshrined in article 6 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The harsh violation of the Constitution's requirements remains a material and technical provision of local and appeals courts and judges, which objectively makes it impossible for judges to be independent. In 2002, these courts were funded by only 44 percent, and the 2003 State Budget provides for the financing of local and appeals courts less than half the amount needed. In doing so, Ukraine’s State budget has become a vicious, unknown practice in the world, which, on the basis of one judge’s budget, allocates 30 to 40 thousand to the general local courts. 50-60 bracelets while the Supreme Court holds 300,000 and the Constitutional Court 800,000. That's right. Lawless and practical requirements for the selection of judges from those with high moral qualities and high qualifications are not met. Attempts to influence courts with personal and corporate motives continue to be made. According to experts from the Council of Europe, Ukraine's Act on Sudokustra does not meet European standards, both in the part of the construction of the system of courts and in the organization of the judiciary, which are duplicated by each other, are vague, too complex, scattered vertically and horizontally, and therefore have to be reviewed by the Ukrainian authorities. In particular, they do not think that the European standards are in line with the four-level system of courts, so the functions of the Ukrainian court should be referred to the Supreme Court of Ukraine. And it's not yet created as a separate chain of specialized administrative courts, it has to be integrated into the general courts by introducing them to specialized judges in administrative matters, as is the case in the vast majority of European countries. This attempt is now being made in the KPC and in the KPC, which is being accepted. I'm paying attention to this to the faction leaders that this is unacceptable. I'm also paying attention to the Head, asking for clarification by the Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania as to whether there is a "National Choice" faction today or not? If there are 13 people, I ask for clarification, and today the voters ask me, I have to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, the faction has the right to complete, you know, within the prescribed deadline. If not, then it will be announced that the faction is dissolved. Not yet. Two weeks, yeah. The deadline's not over yet. I remember all of this, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please, Chelnokov, to the rostrum, please. Chelnokov, please. Well, one minute to finish the performance, well, I can't. People's MP Chelnokov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u12	Please give the floor to Deputy Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u13	Mikola Kravchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u14	Kravchenko, Communist faction, member of the Savings Supervisory Board. Respectable citizens, distinguished people's deputies, distinguished presiding officers! I introduced a draft regulation on the inclusion in the agenda of the Cabinet of Ministers' report on the state of VAT, State Savings Bank, in October. What are the reasons? The fact is that in June 2003, a week after you and I went on vacation, a so-called Memorandum of Relations between the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Bank, the State Saving Bank, was signed in the presence of the World Bank. The World Bank, in the presence of these above-mentioned bodies, has secretly made it possible for the Bank of Ukraine to assume its responsibilities, which will virtually end up in the position of the Bank of Ukraine. It was signed by the Chairman of the Monitoring Board, who was not entitled to do so without the decision of the Monitoring Board. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that none of the Governments has destroyed a system bank with 5 billion capital, of which 3 billion are people's money, mostly the elderly and our youth. Today, the bank is limited in its credit portfolio and will be dictated by the conditions with which banks work, a weighted deposit rate of 8 per cent of the weighted average is introduced for the Savings Office. And the most interesting thing is that all the actions of the Savings Bank will be controlled by the International World Bank. Conditions for the dismissal of 10 per cent of highly skilled workers have been created. All of this is under the strict control of the World Bank, which is present only. The question is therefore doubtful: why is it that the Government today proposes to repay the 250 million that the National Bank can do so today? And most of all. By order of the President who signed the order, he will return a memorandum of resignation, and so far there is no Chairman of the monitoring board. I request that you, Sir Vladimir Mihajlovich, put the matter to a vote on Thursday, and include it on the agenda. And I'm asking the factions convincingly: support this question. It is not necessary for the Supreme Council today to take responsibility for another broken-down bank, where, I repeat, 3 billion 200 million people's money. Otherwise, I will be forced to gather a press conference, address the population directly and provoke an overwhelming demand for withdrawal of deposits to the bank. But you know, that's not the main point. The main goal was that I could not convince the Government to at least listen to me about the roars that led me to that statement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u15	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare the Richter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u16	Honorable MPs, distinguished voters. On September 18, 2003, the SND summit scheduled for signature by the presidents of Ukraine, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Belarus and the Republic of Kazakhstan of an agreement on the formation of a single economic space. For this reason, the faction "Our Ukraine" has an appropriate statement. "Our Ukraine" has always stood up and advocated building mutually beneficial parochial economic relations with the Russian Federation and other SND countries. In addition to Ukraine's movement towards integration into European structures, we see the eastern direction of foreign policy as strategically important. Ukrainian interests are in both directions, and their implementation must be complementary. Only in their union can Ukraine’s economic and political interests be assured. However, in the proposed form, the agreement discredits the idea of settling normal and mutually beneficial relations between Ukraine and the countries that are initiating the agreement. It violates the logic of equal integration processes, and the implementation of the provisions of this document will result in restrictions on Ukraine's national sovereignty: changing the foundations of its internal and external policies will lead to a deterioration in the lives of millions of Ukrainians. The unwillingness of the authorities to engage in dialogue with society about the content of the treaty and its consequences, the opaque preparatory procedure, has led to a project that is contrary to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to international treaties. The Ukrainian State cannot give in to sovereignty in the formation of economic, financial, customs and monetary policies in exchange for the political support of any political power. The economic result of signing this document will be the loss of the competitiveness of Ukrainian goods, the displacement of them from the internal and external markets. The social cost will be the rise in unemployment, the decline in the real income of millions of Ukrainian families. In today's situation, "Our Ukraine" calls for all the patriotic, democratic forces to unite efforts to protect Ukraine's independence and state sovereignty. We demand that the President of Ukraine fulfill his responsibility as the guarantor of the Constitution and not sign the treaty in its present form. "Our Ukraine" requires further work on creating a free trade zone without exceptions and restrictions with SND participating countries, removing existing tariff barriers and putting an end to trade wars. We hope that the political forces will have enough courage and wisdom to protect the greatest value of the Ukrainian people, Ukraine's independence. I have the authority to say that the statement of the relevant content adopted by the session of the Ternopil District Council, and we urge the district and local councils to address the Ukrainian authorities with statements of appropriate content and not to allow the interests of Ukraine to be betrayed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u17	Raisa Bogatyrov, faction of the Ukraine region, prepare for the field. Turn on the microphone, please, Rich from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The agenda for the day's decision on information from yesterday's Cabinet of Ministers regarding the entry into the single economic space. And I ask you to pass the word to the national deputy Proscuratov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u19	National deputy of Proscuratov. We're on for the day. You mean the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u20	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u21	That's different. Ivan Alexandrovich, calm down. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u22	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! Proscurated fraction of SDPO(s). I'm answering the questions of many individual factions, to explain what really happened at 36 Donetska City School, which was eliminated by a decision of the City Council, because I was assigned there by the Education and Science Committee to solve this conflict situation, that 36 schools are specially closed down as a Ukrainian school, and that Donetskina is under State-speaking pressure. I'm just going to point out what I've seen with my own eyes, because I've met with the parents and the teacher of the 36th grade, the 45th grade, where the children are going to be transferred, and with the representatives of the executive branch. Closing any school is a painful question. And that's why I share this situation and the pain of my parents and the teachers that it concerns. But 36 schools never had Ukrainian status. There 55 children are taught in Russian classes and 50 in Ukrainian. Neither has the impact of the national language, because seven schools were opened this year at the beginning of September, and one of the chapters of Harmonia has also been translated into Ukrainian. The main reasons are, of course, the demographic, the financial crisis. School 36 is designed for 420 students, and there are 79 students, and the school is loaded with 24 percent. It was decided by the City Council that students who would be transferred to school 45 would be preserved by class groups, taught by their teachers, and taught in Ukrainian. Last year, the first class didn't come. And I've been to 36 schools, and I can tell you that this school is completely out of line with what it should be. No flowers. Sorry, weeds are almost above me. The author of the letter makes proposals and charges that this school is not organized at 1-3 degrees. I mean, an offer from an eight-year-old school to make a middle school, as we used to call it. But who among you has worked for at least a year in school, and many of you have pedagogical education, you know, in order to go to high school after eight years of school, you have to do a proper retraining, and you have to have an appropriate educational and material base. So the city council compromised. Of course, school 36 is eliminated, but children are allowed to study in their schools. No law is broken. The Education Act, too. Children have the opportunity to learn the language they have chosen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u23	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u24	No teacher is deprived of a job. And that's why I think that, in order for this situation to stop happening, so that as few schools as possible are closed, the honourable colleagues, when we take the budget, just think about it. Because everyone guaranteed that education would be a priority sector in terms of capital. Therefore, support all that is involved in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u25	Thank you. Victor Terrence, faction of the side of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u26	Dear colleagues! Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. In 1991, dear friends, when the first President of Ukraine, Leonid Krawczuk, was to sign the agreement on the creation of SND, the Supreme Council of Ukraine then passed a decree that was sent by fax to Almaty and Kravczuk personally, and then he was guided by this document and did not sign under all the documents that threatened Ukraine's independence. It's a story. The other one. Similarly, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a decision recommending Leonid Krawczuk to refrain from signing an economic union, and then Leonid Krawczuk did not sign any of the documents that would threaten Ukraine’s economic or national independence. This is a fact. Now, what do we have? We have today what Leonid Kuchma has to sign in Yalta the agreement to create a single economic space. And if we take the decision that we recommend putting our signatures there for Leonid Kuchmi, then we're putting the President in the corner. Please understand, all of you. We don't give him the slightest chance of maneuvering. And on the contrary, if we recommend not to put our signature here, then we give it a chance to maneuver it, and it can, just as in its own time, President Krawczuk, take this document, show it and say that Parliament does not recommend it. I'd really like you to understand that. Keep going. It is not possible to clearly support the document on the creation of the EP in its current version. As a minimum, according to the Constitution, we can and should make warnings in this document, warnings that correspond to the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine and the national interests of the Ukrainian people. And these warnings are becoming a normative document that both the President and the signatory countries should be guided. As a result, dear friends need time to work out the document prepared by Azaro’s company. And in this situation, before we vote on this issue, we should definitely not support the EP in today's version. I'm saying this before, literally today, literally now in a few minutes, hotheads are going to propose here to vote ad hoc with a view to bringing this prepared document to Parliament and voting it quickly. That means from the bridge and into the water. And the last. My dear friends, I was trying to get the information out of Kabmen yesterday, and I was trying to get some information out of it. One million dollars, please excuse me, one billion dollars to keep this device, the device that will regulate it. And that's because we're spending a huge amount of money on the maintenance of the SND. What are we going to tell people? Where do we throw money, from what budget article? We think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, time is up. You have a procedure? Asadchev from procedure, please. Masenko out of procedure. Let's go for a while. We've been working for over an hour, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u28	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to see you. You said this morning exactly right that the Supreme Council had already violated the Budget Code in part of the budget hearing. But I want to remind you that breaking the budget code doesn't mean we have to break all the other laws. The presentation of the budget in Parliament is not a presentation to the media. It has legal status. What does that mean? The Supreme Council has the right to vote on the budget rejection after the presentation. Whether it will be so voted or not is another issue. But no one has the right, including the Conciliation Council, to deprive the Supreme Council of such a decision. Such a decision may be made only officially in plenary. It can't be taken on breaks, after a plenary meeting, and so on. Therefore, I believe that today's hearing of the budget is contrary not only to the Budget Code but also to the Rules of the Supreme Council. I would suggest that the question of the development of fish farming could be listened to during the break and that at 12:30 a.m. a presentation of the budget could be started. The government is ready, the budget has been signed for five days, and there are no problems. So I suggest, let's start the presentation of the budget at 12:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u29	Thank you. I, my esteemed colleagues, support all that the Supreme Council will agree to. And I want to tell my honorary colleague that the Supreme Council can decide on the extension of the session. And we voted, and we made the right decision. And you don't have to keep saying that I'm breaking the Rules. First, read the Rules for yourself. That's the first one. The other one. Make yourself available to the budget committee as a substitute for the committee head. And the committee supported this decision and this proposal. I'm telling you again why the committee is here. That's enough. Masenko, national MP. I'm asking you to let the government know. If the government is ready to consider this issue at 13 hours, let us consider it at 13 hours.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u30	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I want to talk to you about what, let's just think about it and put into practice that we're going to let the MPs say what they want to say in an hour. Because there are so many problems that you just can't say it in half an hour. I would like to draw the attention of the media, the Attorney General's Office, to events in the city of Lubna Poltava. Recently, three months ago, here and in this room there was a report that there was an attack on the ex-measure of Luben Korak. And on September 12th, it happened that Korak himself had already shot a 22-year-old boy dead. And how long is this going to go on? 60 grand. The population of the city and the shooting around one man. So he shoots, then he gets shot. The difference is that when he is shot, the jacket is shot, and when he shoots, he kills. I'm asking the Attorney General to conduct a thorough investigation, to draw the right conclusions, and to ensure peace in Lubna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u31	Thank you. Tereshuk, do you have an order of business? Please. The faction of the Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u32	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, representatives of the two factions signed up to make the application, failed to make it. One minute, please. And we ask the people's deputies to give them an opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u33	No, dear fellows, time is running out. We've been talking for ten years. I don't understand what we can say. Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Yesterday we were discussing the only economic space, and I'm asking for your attention! Now you're going to disagree, dear fellows! Well, let's hear it. Yesterday, there was an offer to make the right decision. Yesterday we were unable to vote in favour of withdrawing from the Rules and making a decision. We couldn't. One minute. They didn't get the number of votes. Just a minute. Tomorrow, when we make that decision, no one will need it, that's the decision. Tomorrow's Thursday. A decree has been made to vote today and to consider these rulings and to vote for one of them as determined by the Hall. So I'm putting to the vote a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to change the voting time for a decision on the basis of the discussion of the Cabinet of Ministers, please vote. [[11:09:22]] For 241 Ladies and gentlemen, at the request of two factions, a 30 - minute recess is announced. To the leaders of the MPs and factions, please gather in the office.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u34	Please invite the deputies to the session room. Dear colleagues, let me inform you about the outcome of the meeting, in fact, the Conciliation Council. First of all, I would like to listen very carefully, without emotion, because the question of whether we should make decisions today, were discussed in factions and prepared a document, agreed on a document. Hence, it took no emotion to decide whether we should vote on this decision today. I want to tell the people again. We discussed yesterday, we had different points of view, we had debates. They came together in one way: that these documents should not conflict with the laws, the Constitution of Ukraine, international agreements, that we should always, and in everything, seek, first and foremost, economic interest. If we don't make a decision today, then we had a meaningless discussion yesterday. I'm asking for your attention. You don't have to show your activity where it's not there. Once again, what we discussed in the agri-industrial complex was not a decision. It's going to turn out again that we've discussed this problem -- we haven't made up our minds. We finally have to make a decision. Now, a coordinated project that I ask you to listen to carefully, please listen carefully. I'll read it, dear fellows! All the faction leaders have agreed. There's another offer. If you deny it, then we'll vote in turn for 5 decrees, and we'll make a decision that splits the hall. Is that what you want? I'll read it now, it's okay! Look, she's small. All the faction leaders, I emphasize, all supported. May I have your attention, please? A statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the formation of a single economic space with Russia, Kazakhstan, and Belarus. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, reaffirming the need to deepen mutual economic cooperation with Ukraine's traditional economic partners Russia, Kazakhstan and Belarus, expressing its conviction that such cooperation will contribute to increasing the level of cooperation and the international distribution of labour, access to the markets of the States of the European Union, which will contribute to the creation of new jobs, a high rate of economic growth and an increase in the standard of living of our fellow citizens, based on the fact that each of the countries participating in the Agreement itself determines in which the development of integration and the extent to which it participates, enables each stage of the expansion of cooperation to protect Ukraine's national interests, by expressing the will of its constituents, the orientation of most Ukrainian citizens to support the consolidation of the Supreme Council's legislation. " And it's agreed with all the faction leaders. I'm voting on the adoption of this document. Please vote. To 291. Application accepted It's announced by factions, please. "Our Ukraine" is 0. The Communists are 58. "Ukraine" is 44. Industry and Entrepreneurs Party and Hard Ukraine Party 42. SDPU(o)-37. Democratic Initiatives - 16 European Choice - 16 Ukrainian Socialist Party - 19 The faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko - 0 People's Landing - 12 Agrarian Party - 14 NDP - 12 People's Choice — 12 Postfraction -7 Dear colleagues! I'd like to say that we've been making this decision for a very long time, there have been positions that have been declared separately by the faction of Communists, but for the sake of consensus, we've come together, and we've all insisted on the faction leaders that we should vote by consensus. But it turned out that the arrangements were not kept in this part. Dear colleagues! Let's do it this way. The draft Law on the State Fisheries Development Programme 2003-2010 is being announced for consideration. At 1:30 a.m., let's go over the State Budget project. Reporter Ribuk Sergey Mikolayovich. Correspondent Tereshuk Sergey Mikolayovich. Please prepare and perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u35	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Act on the State Fisheries Development Programme 2003-2010 has been developed to implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision of 13.07.2000 on the concept of the development of fisheries. Fish farming is a whole manufacturing and farm complex that combines companies that fish, other water resources, supply, storage, processing and marketing. Fish farming is related to research, conservation and reproduction, cultivation, use of living water by means of their involvement, capture, harvesting, and so forth. All of you know, honourable national deputies, that the fishing industry has been experiencing a decline in production for a long time, there are processes to reduce its potential. The share of the core funds is over 55-65 percent, the aging of the technical base is increasing, resource and financial imbalances leading to a decline in production. In 2001, catches of fish and other aquatic resources decreased by 70 percent compared to the 1990s. Production of fish by 63, fish cans by 69 and fish flour by 80 percent. Over the past 12 years, 75-85 percent of fish and seafood have been produced within exclusive economic zones of foreign countries and the open part of the world's oceans, and only 15-25 percent have been produced in the exclusive maritime economic zone and the domestic waters of Ukraine, including commercial production. Much of the fish products are made to be used by domestic shipowners to pay for fishing licences for operating expenses, to cover the deficit of their own circulation costs due to the inability to engage credit resources due to the corresponding high interest rates, other reasons. This, in turn, has a negative impact on the consumer market, on the loading of production capacity, on coastal fish processing enterprises, and on the reduction of export prices for fish products. The decline in fish catches and fish production by ocean fishing companies has resulted in an increase in the cost of fishing licences, repairs to the outdated fishing fleet. The current capacity of the technical bases for the fleet of shipbuilding, ship repair, repair and repair plants is only used 20-25 percent. Thus, even such a brief feature of the state suggests that the state usually needs a clear and concrete program of developing fish farming for a nearer and further perspective. In order to improve the status quo, a bill was drafted by the honourable people’s deputies. It is short - lived that he foresees. The bill provides for the development of fisheries in such large areas as ocean fishing, secondly, fisheries in the Azov and Black Seas and inland waterways and commercial fisheries; nextly, a group of issues, the protection of aquatic living resources and the regulation of fisheries in the waters of Ukraine; a separate section, the processing of fish and other aquatic living resources, and further, servicing and auxiliary production, are sea fishing ports, shipbuilding, ship repairs, netting and factory production. The implementation of the guidelines set out in the bill is foreseen in the following ways. First of all, this is an upgrade of the fleet’s core funds and fish farms through the construction of new fishing vessels and fishing complexes, reconstruction and technical restocking, and the modernization of coastal enterprises and production. Increased efficiency in the use of raw fish stocks for fish stocks, conservation of fishing activities in exclusive economic zones of foreign countries, expansion of fishing in open areas of the world’s oceans, increased fishing in the Azov and Black Seas and inland waterways. Of course, it is important to continue to develop freshwater and marine aquaculture, to intensify commercial fishing by applying the principle of quality selective and genetic materials. Increases in the production of fish and other aquatic resources in Ukraine’s inland waters to increase the value of fishery aquatic objects and ensure that they are used effectively everywhere. We need to optimize the development of the fisheries industry, ensure high quality and expand the range of competitive production from extracted living resources. Of course, the whole structural reconstruction of fish farming, the promotion of enterprises, the organization of all forms of property. As a result of the implementation of these and others mentioned in the project, these results are expected. This is primarily the creation of favourable conditions to increase the production of competitive fish products in order to guarantee the country’s food security and meet the needs of fish and fish products. The 2010 catch of fish and other aquatic resources amounted to 750 thousand tons. And in this program, it's shown in the materials that the largest country ever acquired over 1 million tons in its time, that's in 1990, fish production. Food production is expected to produce up to 540,000 tons, 250 million conditional cans of fish cans, and 33,000 tons of farmed fish flour. In carrying out this program, it is very important that we prove the cultivation of fishplant material to fish natural waters and reservoirs, which are 140 million pieces of young fish. Today, the maximum that we're doing is 40 million young people. So we're going to essentially have to increase the production of fish three times. There are, of course, additional revenues to the State Budget at the expense of taxes, compulsory payments to the manufacturing industry. In our view, by reporting on this program and by completing my report, I want to draw attention once again to the fact that it is both forward-looking and specific, and the appendix to the program contains more than 60 specific chapters, which, when and to whom, in all directions of the development of fish farming in our country. I'm done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u36	Any questions? Please sign in. Valentina Petrovna Seminouk. Next Dry One.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u37	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Sergio Mikolaiovich, of course, today our branch, like the fish, needs to adopt such a program, especially financial support. If you look at the project budget that's set up, that's a small amount, it's not even enough to take the baby, fish growing and all that. As you are building a mechanism in the support program for fish farming, you're predicting even more of this program, which laws are being introduced to make our industry rise, the more so that today, competing with representatives of other countries, our agriculture is an opportunity. Still, what will be the bill, and when will it be submitted? Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u38	Thank you. Thank you, Reverend Valentina Petrovna. In fact, we are now forming a legislative base. I would like to say, with thanks to the Supreme Council, that the first law is the national programme for the construction of the fishing fleet, it was approved by the Supreme Council by 2010. True, it is not adequately financed. The second direction proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Supreme Council is today's project of the State Fisheries Development Programme. And the third direction and the third bill that we're working with the people's deputies right now is the bill on fish farming as such. And so these three directions, the interconnected laws, we want to provide absolutely purposeful and full funding, because this is a state program. Of course, it hurts that we often treat such a complex structure and such a part of the folk-based complex as a lover there, with a vodka in the pond. So we're going to need 1 billion 426 million in 10 years. That's 100-110 million a year. But it has to be financed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u39	Please, Dry, next Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u40	Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Dear Sergey Mikolaiovich, I have a brief question and a suggestion, please take it to heart. Today, I think it's a good situation for the restoration and reproduction of Ukraine's fisheries, and we're going to vote for this bill, that's for sure. But in many ways such a favourable situation on the ground is due to the fact that a number of large industrial giants, such as Motor City, have been captured, Zaporoztal, Austal, etc. Illicha, or machine - building and metallurgy, buys out damaged fish farms, repairs their damage, and provides funds for better financing. Please tell me, to what extent can the state programme take into account the need to grant any preferences to these industrial enterprises that would improve the financial situation of our fish farms in the Azovsky, the Black Sea, which would be in extremely weak condition without this funding?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u41	Thank you very much. The right, the right, and the right question. I think that's what this is about, and that's what it's supposed to be, even though it's generally a program that we can't, as they say, see only in state-owned enterprises without funding them and thus destroy them, wanting and not wanting to. And the other is to give, as it used to be, rent to anyone who wants to. We are working today, and that now without the permission of the Ministry, the Minister and the State Department, no shipping company and others are leased as they say without serious preparation. So our domestic capital needs to be given more and more activity in renting, and we need to give, and we need to regulate, the private equity ratio. And so in this program, 70 percent of the projected costs are planned not from the budget, but from the direction you asked me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u42	One last question. Anatoly Orzhachowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear Sergey Mikolayovich. Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. I have two questions for you. First. Does the State Development Program project count? The holding of the conclusion of the Court of Auditors, which was recently distributed to us, is part of the need to increase the production of valuable fish, particularly in the Black and the Azov Seas? And the second. Aren't you going to be offered a program already in turn, on the 20th or 30th level of the state, which then, at the level of the area, without having the money today, will be discussed again at the sessions and we'll be looking, more faithfully, for our colleagues downstairs to look for the cost of executing it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u44	Thank you. First question. Of course, there is a separate chapter on the position, position, of the Azov and Black Seas themselves. And now, without waiting for the program, we work daily. And within 4 million children, at the expense of the State Selection Program, water production is expected to increase 10 times, to 40 million, and to the 120th. So we're focusing, we're not just doing the world ocean, we're doing the replication of our internal waters and our seas that are in the economic zone of our country. And second, about the program. The thing is, we've worked our own sector programs before, we've got them. But now, according to the Budget Code and other current legislation of the Cabinet of Ministers, the ministries are obliged to issue appropriate programmes for each budget position, including this. So there might be 40 of them, but the other thing is if it's a state. Approved not by anyone, but by the Supreme Council, it has to be financed by 100% of all the sources provided for in the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u45	Time's up. Have a seat, please. The head of the subcommittee on agrarian politics and land relations, Tereshuk Sergey Mikolayovich, will report. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, with the draft law that introduced the government in April this year, its content and rationale, the necessity of adoption -- you had an opportunity to get to know it. The reporter also made a thorough stop to these questions. The bill under discussion was reviewed and discussed on our committee. By a majority of votes, he was approved, recommended to the Supreme Council to take part in the first reading. The members of the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee have come to the conclusion that the tasks of fisheries development are of general importance. According to Sergio Mikolaiovich Rizuka, the fishing industry of Ukraine, as a very important national agricultural sector, is in a very difficult position today. The dynamics of fish farming are very negative today. Thus, fishing in Ukraine declined almost fourfold in twelve years. The consumption of fish, fish, and fish products per capita, of 20 kilograms recommended, decreased to eight kilograms [8 kg]. This is because imports of fish products in Ukraine have doubled at the expense of other producing nations, and we meet the needs of the population. At the same time, we need to take into account that fish is not just a food product, it's food, it's protein that's so necessary today, it's a raw material for the production of medicines. In support of this bill, the Supreme Council Committee believes that it is still impossible to observe, but it is necessary to adopt a programme approved by the Supreme Council. This is the program offered by the Cabinet of Ministers, which takes into account the state and direction of the crisis that we have today in fish farming. The effectiveness of the program is evident. But at the same time, I'm going to say, even if we can imagine that we can do this program, we can't fully meet the needs of the population in fish production, even those 20 kilograms that Ukraine once had, we can't get out. At the same time, there are many comments. First of all, the programme needs to be aligned with the state budget so that it does not become another declaration. If funds are to be invested in the program, they should also be provided in the state budget. Many in the program are declarative, and again, it doesn't carry anything specific. The program also requires further work on this issue, which is related to conservation. Of course, the program can be defined in other ways. At the committee meeting, efforts were being made to make more effective use of internal water. Today, only a fifth of the fish resources are produced in inland waters. I'll give you just one example of how important it is to control fish resources. The Cerca Fisheries Inspection serves the Dniper waterfront from Lightwater to Kanev to an area of more than 200,000 hectares [200,000 ha]. The coastline is 400 kilometers [400 km]. There's only 36 fish inspectors in this state. Please tell me, can 36 fish inspectors ensure the performance of their functions? If in the past, some 5 years ago, there were 15 organizations in this area, today 45 organizations are engaged in fishing. About 30,000 nets are installed in one year. The increase in poaching. The number of detected cases increased three times in a year. So today, fish inspection in such financing will not be able to perform its function. And there are many other issues that have been raised at the Committee on Agrarian Policy, Land Relations. We're asking you to support the program. The program has a number of shortcomings, but hopefully in the second reading, in the third they'll be included, and we'll get a program that's not just another declaration, it'll be able to pay back in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u47	There's a question, I see. Please sign up. Matvienkov Sergey Anatolyevich. Next Nightshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u48	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Sergey Nikolaevich, I'd like to ask you a question like this. So you said that the fish has been reduced almost four times, so to speak. Who is keeping a clear record today and a system of what is happening today in the same Azovsky, in Black? I speak specifically on the Azov Sea. Has anyone tried to cross the sea? The network is online. Unauthorized captures, full-scale brigades that work. Is there something about this program? And how did the committee get to the point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u49	Thank you. We had more than a million tons of fish caught during this economic upturn in Ukraine. Today, 286 thousand tons are being fished. Do you know who's keeping score today? This is our statistics. This is statistical data. As far as control is concerned, there is a fish inspection. Thus, in a section that also controls the catch of fish, the point of reference is given to the inspection authorities. But I stressed that very little money has been made. Plus our imperfect legislation. Today, you know, to order someone who fishes illegally. or can only be done through a court of law. In many cases the nets used by poachers will even have to be returned. So here, let's say, one program can't solve those problems that are in the fish industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u50	Mikola Nightshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u51	160 constituency. Sergey Mikolaiovich, today, fish - producing farming subjects are generally exempt from tax on fresh water. You know that. And the budget is about 18 to 20 million dollars a year. What is the prospect of further payments to the budget from the consequences of farming? That's the first question. And the second question. A program that will be funded by the State Budget. What size are we talking about? On what basis will this funding go? And what is the purpose of support or costing, or how about insurance, is that an internal order for socio-cultural objects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u52	Thank you, Mikola Petrovich. Well, first of all, the issue of taxation is not the program that we're discussing. So according to the tax system, we're going to have a change next year. That's also the added value tax, and I'd like to point out that in rural areas it's the inland water users who pay for the use of the water mirror. Depending on the area in which the site is located. But the main thing is that it's not an object of the program. With regard to financial security, the Programme provides a total of one and a half billion. But from that amount, 85-90 percent is the cost of fishing organizations. State support is extremely limited. So here and in the program, there was a notice and a committee to a greater extent to focus on the use of funds just for the reproduction and protection of water resources. This is the basic article on which money is to be channelled. Today they are placed somewhere in the budget, perhaps a percentage of just 30 if needed. Next selection in the fish farm. When required for 17-20 million in the Programme and in the 2004 budget, only 10 percent of the budget was budgeted. And the important question is how to prepare the personnel. It is precisely the basic problems that must be financed by the State Budget. And the program is not just financial support, it's a complex of measures and measures.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u53	Please, Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u54	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Sergey Mikolayovich, you are said to be profitable in numbers, says that you are professionally qualified to prepare this document. But I do, knowing you're working well on our special commission of control on privatization. I want to ask you a question. The Law on the Characteristics of Privatization in the APC was adopted, and fish farming was introduced. Today, at a meeting of the commission, we see a lot of disturbances in the social sphere. As you see in the adoption of the document, it would be a protocol to consider the transfer of the social sphere to the communal property of those enterprises that have been privatized, however, is meant to be fish farms, so that it is not the same as what we see as taxes, including fish companies, take away social objects. So if we worked as a protocol commission, we could give it to the Cabinet of Ministers. How do you view such an offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u55	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna. I fully agree with your offer. Of course, it won't be unnecessary if you can also show it in the program. It won't be too much, although this problem, which isn't just about fishing, is actually a problem in the village today, where to find out who's going to be receiving the socio-cultural objects that are in critical condition today. On the one hand, farms today cannot maintain them, on the other hand, or have no budget, and sometimes do not want to balance them. So it's a problem that we're probably going to consider separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u56	Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich. The next one is Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u57	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important question that we are considering. Especially in view of the fact that here in the narrative, in general, where the current state and characteristics of fish farming are not present, there is no record of the fact that fish companies are in fact broken down. The largest Atlantic in Sevastopol is being pillaged today, and I'm informing the Ministry so you know. Because at my own request, I've overthrown the government. But the Yanukovich government is thinking about how to hand over a faster country, how to win the presidency. And when it's stolen, nobody cares. And so we had only four major companies that ran the Atlantic industry -- the Atlantic, the Kerchribprom, the Antarctic, the Odessa. These are just an article called Antarctica that's a little bit lively. Why? There is no government policy, no support for Kabminu, no support for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There are no quota agreements with other countries. Every business is going to Africa or elsewhere today, as if there is no State of Ukraine, as if there are no State authorities. Fish consumption is less than three times the norm. This is due to the disease of the population of Ukraine. This gives birth to sick children. And the government doesn't realize that this sector actually needs to be protected on a level that we're talking about in the village. It is the same meat, it is the same bread, perhaps even more useful for the mind of many. And perhaps the lack of consumption of this meat, as much as necessary, has led to what is written in the program, and I have been thoroughly familiar with everything that will be controlled by the central authority of the program, only by the governmental executive authority in the field of fish farming. Then who will do the program? But the central authority in the fisheries sector has a programme to run, and the government of Ukraine has control, because the program is approved by law, is approved by Parliament. Please make adjustments to chapter 11. Now, honourable national MPs, the size of the smuggling that goes on, the fish, the signing of free trade agreements, which has led to the fact that countries that never got fish are exporting to us today. And in the Kyiv region, we have ocean fish, it turns out, it's coming out. Look at the names of the cans that are coming today. And that's why I think the first reading of the program needs to be taken, but seriously change some approaches, change the approach to financing, finance and supply one ton of fish caught or imported fish. Here's what you need. And we need to look at protecting this sector as well as protecting agricultural production. But first, we have to do inventory of everything that's there. There's no inventory. And we're not told that in the apps. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u58	The word is given to Volodymyr Puzakov, the next to Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u59	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The Kirovograd area also has great resources to provide sustainable fish and fish products with effective use of internal water. At present, there are 2,185 ponds in the area of the total area of the water mirror is 16,000. Ninety - nine acres [49 ha], as well as 84 reservoirs with an area of 9579 acres [9579 ha]. The Kremenchuck watershed, the Dnipro and the South Bug, are located near the area, with significant opportunities for commercial fishing. In 1991 a total of 1,100 tons of fish were produced in the Territory’s constitutional foundation, or 158 pounds [158 kg] per hectare] of water mirrors. In the fishing industry of the town of Svetlovodsk, the annual fishing operation in 1985-1990 consisted of up to 2,000 tons, in the specialized VAT "Kirogradribgosp" village of Ajamka annually produced and implemented up to 15 million pieces of fish planting material. From one hectare of water mirrors, fish were caught by about 2 tons. The pine - mantel, krupier, and combustible industries provided for the needs of fish farms in special vans, producing 11159 tons in 1991. And last year, only 82 tons of fish were caught in the pond farm, which is in the knowledge of rural and rural councils. Thus, only five pounds [5.2 kg] of commercial fish, nearly 10 times less natural productivity in inland waters, is obtained from a hectare of water. At the same time, a large portion of the local council’s wager is leased and is entirely in the shadow sector, or neglected about 13,000 acres [13,000 ha] of water mirrors in the area. No catch centre has been accounted for, although it has been successfully implemented in the unorganized markets in the Kirovograd region. The shadow traffic from illegal fishing and fishing accounts for about 10 million dollars a year. At the same time, rural and rural councils suffer from a shortage of funds in local budgets to sustain the social sphere, and much of them are also subsidized. They were completely removed from the management of agriculture, the management of agriculture, the management, the neglected and degraded farming technology on an intensive basis, the lack of even conceptual approaches to extracting the fisheries from a deep crisis. From the conclusion stated, one. An analysis of the state of affairs in fish farming, as in other areas, is in deep decline. This once again speaks of the inability of today’s authorities to manage the country’s economy. And I don't think any programs will help this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u60	The word is given to Sergey Soboljevo. Next up is Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, Minister. I'd like to build my performance on a very specific point that relates to the creation and reproduction of ostriches in the Azov swimming pool. I think any programs that we're about to announce, more with the deadline, there, 10, 20, 30 years, if they don't have enough specific points that we can verify in 2004-2005, it's going to be a pretty serious blow to the ostrich population for the Asian particular region. That's why I would like to thank the representatives of the Asian Center, who have developed a sufficiently technical and economical and biological, which is very important, to justify the establishment of such a centre. It is, at least, an integral part of the program that we are considering today. I'd like to point out just a few numbers. We have official ostrich data in 1939 and, by comparison, in 1999. I want to bring these numbers. If about 7,000 270 tons were fished in 1939, by 1999, this official catch had dropped to 217 tons. Experts argue, therefore, that the key catch is now taking place, not because of official fishbowls, but because of poaching, which has become legal under the cover of the fisheries and related structures that provide green light just to destroy the population in the Azov Sea. And the key is that, to date, Ukraine actually has only one small production centre. Here we have to thank the representatives of the Mariopolska metalworking combination, who release about one million babies, and this is the only thing that Ukraine is doing today in the Asian pool. This is actually only three percent of the total population that should continue to reproduce in the Asian pool. So I would like to insist that today's conversation should not end with the adoption of general predictive or promising things that no one will check: neither this Parliament nor the next. And it has to have some specific points that can already be checked. And I'd like to share with you the full scientific, environmental, technical, economic and financial justification of the minister so that, if possible, it can be included. And the work that the Berdians did, directly for the development of this population, would be a specific report to both the government and the next in this kind of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u62	The word is given by Mironenko, the next Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u63	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respected compatriots, when considering the State Fisheries Development Programme of Ukraine, should be borne in mind that some heads of administration, officials of the areas adjacent to the Azov Sea, have established their own industrial brigades, barbaric destructive fish stocks of the Azov Sea. At the same time, traditional enterprises that have worked for decades have been in fact destroyed in the interest of restocking fish stocks. This is the focus of many officials, including those who are actively pushing fish products abroad into the Ukrainian market. In addition, please note that the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources is actually impacting these enterprises. For more than half a year, fish catch limits have been agreed upon. Thus, enterprises are being destroyed and they are being incited to corruption, to illegal acts. Unfortunately, I have to draw your attention to the following. Three years ago, in 2000, I introduced the concept of the development of Ukrainian fisheries, which has already passed several laws and is considering the bill. Thank you, all MPs. The constitutional majority voted, and all factions took a public approach. But what are the results from 2000 to 2001? Fish production and production have decreased. Businesses are in terrible condition, and many have been defrauded in fact, including Kerchribprom, Jugribpoysk. The unique Institute of Fisheries in Ukraine, Southniro, is very poorly funded and is actually fuelled by the pitiful existence. What's the reason? The reason is that we have a course on capitalism, return to capitalism, universal privatization, which destroys all sectors of the economy, including the fisheries industry. This sector, which provides food security for Ukraine. I would like to draw the attention of the President, the Government of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Council to all that I have said before, in the interest of ensuring Ukrainian food security. However, we will not in any way lift up this industry, as other industries, without excluding this universal privatization. However, the bill lays down the rule to complete the privatization of the fish industry. In addition, we must ensure that what has been done in Italy, in the case of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, has been nationalized in Italy. Italy has a huge public sector. In Israel, rural collectives prevail, collectively. Why do we have a wager in agriculture and other industries rather than public and collective? In view of all this, I propose to support the draft law on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u64	Sergey Anatolyovich Matvienkov. Next Orzhachowski. Please follow the time limit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u65	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear friends! Dear colleagues! I want to focus on the problem of the Azov Sea, because it must be a special sea. Do we know from the textbooks that this was one of the richest seas in fish stocks? What's going on today? I listened attentively when figures were used and said that the fish had fallen four times. My dear? I can say with full responsibility. No one today will say how much fish has fallen and what is actually happening today. I can invite representatives of the fisheries committee to take a walk on the Azov Sea and you can see how the network is on the web. Who's picking up? How does he catch? Who's in charge? There is absolutely no system. I can tell you one thing. The ball is made by poachers. The sea is broken down into squares, there are laws of its own, unwritten laws and what is happening there, no one can say to this day. But first of all, it's not just fishing, it's a waste of nature. They rub the bottom, they lose the baby, they lose the matches, they call it. With the ostriches, it's practically a disaster to this day in the Azov Sea. Why? It takes 18 years to reproduce the offspring. She's not just allowed to grow up to that age. But it is also scary that it is done by those who would be required to organize control over all of this and to ensure that the sea is orderly. Unfortunately, we are faced with a situation where "creatures" work. The same militia, I'm using the same inspectors' roofs, the same BAF services, and so on. And I think it is necessary here to take the most severe measures to ensure that controls and order can be put in place. Regrettably, the failure has begun and the State control system has not been operational to date. There is no system in this work! If the colloughts had previously had a specific task in the reproduction of the headfish, there is no such task to date. Take an example. From the Russian border to the city of Mariupol, 2,000 fishing brigades are in operation to date. Who gave the license? Who organized the control? What are they picking up? How do they catch? How do they reproduce this kid? To date, it needs to be first of all in order for the programme to operate, deal with the issue of the licence, to stop and order, to review virtually every licence in the strongest possible way. That's the first one. Second. The programme should fight with Russian legislation. For no one's sake, you're moving to Russian territory, $200, fishing, let's say there's some kind of joint action going on. Third. It is still necessary to give priority to those enterprises that are now interested in the development of fisheries. What they're saying today is the metal combination of Ilyich. Up to 1 million kids out, cooking. Allow such enterprises to take advantage of this business and jointly develop this policy of order in the Azov Sea. I can talk about this for a long and long time. I want to say one thing. As long as we don't farm back to the Azova Sea, until we start to put order there as masters, and know that the sea needs our descendants, our children and our grandchildren, and realize that our inaction today will lose this unique, so to speak, natural phenomenon, we will not bring order until then. Of course, the program needs to be taken with certainty, but it will need to be done seriously for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u66	The word is given to Anatoly Orzhachowski, followed by Borzih.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u67	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction, Hersonian. Dear colleagues, at first glance, the draft Law on the State Fisheries Development Programme 2003-2010 has positive intentions and strategic plans for the reconstruction of fish stocks in Ukraine and for the saturation of fish and fish products in the market. But when we look at what is being done in the fishing industry today, there is doubt as to the reality of the implementation of the proposed Program. To confirm this point, I will bring to you a picture that took place in my hometown of Hersonschi, in the Kalanchat region, whose fish farms belong to Hersonribgospo, Ukraine’s Fisheries Department. The Calanchat fish breeder and the Red Caban cargo farm together occupy more than 2,000 hectares [2,000 ha] of machines. In the recent past, over 1,800 tons of fish, five million pieces of fish planting material, have been fished each year, and there have been hundreds of workers, and large amounts of taxes have been paid to the budget. There's a whole mess here today. More than 300 hectares [300 ha] remain in operation. A tribal herd and an incubation camp were destroyed. There are only 30 people working in two farms. Out of 90 units of technology, 12 remain, and everything else is stolen. Fish catch a little more than 100,000. A logical question arises. If the agricultural sector has collapsed because of privatization, the fish sector is not privatized. It would have to be controlled by both the holdmain Foundation and other control bodies. But they don't see anything or maybe they don't want to see it. It's a similar picture all over Ukraine. Since the fishing industry is nowhere, the management footage remains unchanged. And without their participation, it didn't go to waste. It would also be logical to question their intentions as set out in the government’s development program. First, you have to do a review of what's going on, give credit for the breakup, and then think about the future. The "Cadras solve everything" slogan is also relevant here. And one more thing. Conservation of fish stocks. What's being done to protect fish stocks today is, like, in famous terms, "Like a wolf watching sheep or a goat watching cabbage." A serious check is needed on those who protect fish stocks. Finally, I would like to say. In this serious area, we need to bring about an end to the system of things. Today, try talking to the leaders at the regional level. There is, in practice, a new government or a government that is parallel to the executive branch of the fisheries sector. There's also an attempt to interfere with government funds, there's internal squabbles, there's a beating of people under the pretext of being poachers, it's in Hersonian. And so on and so on and so forth. So I think we need a complex approach here. And I want the program to be carried out, but I want the law enforcement officers to do their job and check it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u68	The word is given to Alexander Borzih.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the government! In recent years there has been a serious situation in the development of the fisheries sector for various reasons. There are fundamental problems that need an urgent solution. And that's why the bill that we're considering today is absolutely necessary and relevant. The approval of this program will certainly contribute to a systematic approach to solving fish farming issues, and there are many problems. So I think it can be taken as a basis. At the same time, I would like to make such proposals to take into account the second reading. First. The projects of this state programme are virtually out of place for control of the quality and safety of fish production, and this is a very important aspect. And for that there was a speech here, my colleague Matvienkov spoke. The other one. I have known for many years that, as the leader of the former Minribgos, the committee then made a proposal to compare fishing farms to farmers in part of the approach to financing and incentives, as their specific characteristics coincide with agriculture. There's a radio. And Ukraine's "Promoting Agriculture for the period 2001-2004" Act partially provides for this, but the issue is not resolved until the end. Next. Experts have repeatedly raised the issue of a government decision to set up a specialized fund, accounting for one percent of the cost of selling fish and fish products for the development of fisheries. A proposal was also made for the establishment of a state-owned fishing fund for the acquisition of fishing vessels. You know how important this is to the field. And the idea also deserves attention. There is a problem with solving the sources of financing for environmental management. That is, there is a need for the project of this national programme to clearly anticipate the improvement of the financing system for fish farming. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u70	Is Eugene Kirilchuk there? Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of Tymoshenko. Get ready for John the Rabbit and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u71	Dear National Deputies! Julia Timoshenko, Kirilchuk, Volin. Perhaps I am fortunate to have the Government present and the Prime Minister present on this important issue. A very important problem raised today, both by the Minister of Agriculture and by the Committee, is that this is part of the food market that today, in Ukraine, can be said to be broken to pieces. Indeed, from 20 kilograms [20 kg] to 8 kg [8 kg] per capita fish consumption has dropped, fish catches have decreased, poaching has multiplied, fish prices in the markets have increased several times, and they have even exceeded the cost of meat products. Such a catastrophe is also emphasized by the fact that local authorities are giving local water resources to anyone in the lease, and this rent is meager, and no one controls them, and no one controls them, and no one controls them, and does not force them to engage in, in fact, production on these water resources. As a result, such a program does not produce any results. I want to say that we've received the budget today, and we're going to be looking at it right now, and there's absolutely no word in the budget that says anything about this program and its support. In addition, the program itself needs to be divided into several separate chapters, such as the improvement of the financial mechanism of fish farming, as even our analytical services emphasize. Individually, there should be legal provisions that speakers today have talked about, that there should be, in particular, other laws and codes that have been introduced or proposed to introduce, control over the implementation of this program. A section that obliges everyone, all the local authorities and owners, regardless of the form of ownership, is essential. I think that the Ministry of Agriculture, which is obliged to control the implementation of this program, is not equipped with such programs. They serve as counselors today, not program managers. As a result, they may also need to be empowered to do so. If this is all further developed into second reading, the program will really become an application. In this way, it can only be accepted in the first reading. And the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko will support this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u72	Thank you. Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee at its meeting was considering the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Fisheries Development Programme 2003-2010. The committee believes that this bill should be sent for further work, i.e. for re-reading. One of the main drawbacks of the project is that it foresees the maximum use of those natural resources that are still remaining, and in conditions that are exclusively noticeable. Mineresources are not even mentioned in the draft law. It does not take into account the current state of the aquatic living population, the state of the aquatic ecosystems as a whole, and does not provide for any responsibility or action to prevent wrongdoing and poaching in this field of activity. And you've heard the MPs say that poaching is developing out of control today. And there's been a lot of problems in this area. By barbaric methods and methods, especially in Ukraine’s domestic fish ponds, fish stocks and other aquatic living resources are destroyed with unreserved cruelty. The extremely dangerous electric tanks, most of the ponds are already dead, the catch control is virtually gone, and no one is responsible. The State Programme project has virtually no conservation measures to protect and conserve aquatic living resources that will make it impossible to create favourable conditions for the development of fisheries. Chapter 2 states that the decline in the production of fish products is due to the imperfect price, tax and credit policies of the State, the insufficient protection of its own producer, the destruction of the material and technical security of the fisheries sector, and so on. However, efforts to improve the legal and regulatory framework for dealing with these issues are virtually unforeseeable. [[Appendix 2, page 12]] The individual positions of the sub-division "Fishing in the Azov and Black Seas and Inland Waters" of chapter 4 do not comply with the Water Code of Ukraine and other legislative acts. The Department of Water Protection and Fisheries Control does not provide for free access to the waterfront to meet its culturally healthy recreational, sporting and tourist needs. Requires a detailed analysis of Appendix 2 to the program, pages 8-12. "Science and technology and human resources related to the number of necessary budgetary resources for research, development of recommendations, etc." I mean, honourable national MPs, this document is quite inconsistent, and it needs to be further worked out and suggested by our committee to send this document back to read again. We need to take immediate radical measures to restore fish stocks and to preserve what we have today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Law on the State Fisheries Development Programme 2003-2010 has been completed. The decision will be made, taking into account the discussion, on the day of the vote. Now, honourable colleagues, as agreed, we are moving on to the issue of presenting the draft Ukrainian Law on Ukraine's 2004 State Budget. With your permission, I would like to remind you of the position of relevant articles 39 of the draft State Budget Act, the presentation of the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine." Not later than five days after the Cabinet of Ministers passed the draft Law on Ukraine’s State Budget to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance presents it at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues reports on the compliance of the draft Ukrainian Law on State Budget with the requirements of the Code. The main thrust of budgetary policy for the next fiscal year and the proposals of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the main directions of budgetary policy for the following fiscal year, adopted in accordance with article 33, part 6, of the Code. As a result of the discussion of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine can make a reasoned decision on its rejection in the event of an inadequacy of this code in the main directions of budgetary policy for the next budget period and the proposals of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to them, adopted in accordance with part six of article 33 of this Code. In the event of a rejection of the draft State Budget Act, the Cabinet of Ministers is obliged to submit a draft Law on the National Budget of Ukraine within one week of the date on which the decision on rejection is effective to resubmit the draft Law on the National Budget of Ukraine for a re-submission based on the changes made to the relevant decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Minister of Finance of Ukraine re-presents the draft law on the state budget of Ukraine no later than three days after it was re-submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We will, indeed, hope that this will not happen, especially as the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice-Prime Minister, members of the government, head of the Court of Auditors, also represented representatives from the district councils. which show the greatest interest in this document. It is suggested that this is a time limit for the discussion of this issue: the Minister of Finance's report - up to 10 minutes, answers to questions - up to 10 minutes, a report by the Head of the Budget Committee - up to 10 minutes, questions and answers to them - within 7 minutes, to be discussed within 50 minutes. If they insist, we can continue in an hour. Is there no objection? The regulations are then approved. I invite you to report to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Finance, Azarov Mikola Janović. Please, Mikolo Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u75	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! According to current budget legislation, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has developed and is submitting a draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2004. In the process of drafting the law, there was systematic and consistent work with all the participants in the budget process. Special attention was paid to the proposals made by the deputy corps. The 2004 draft budget is based on new principles, which are a logical continuation of government policy to improve the quality of life of the population on the basis of sustained economic growth. Budget estimates include, above all, the expansion of the tax base, resulting from the growth of major macro-indicators next year, as well as the legalization of shadow traffic. What are the new budget trends next year? For the first time, social priorities are set out directly in the draft State Budget Act by individual articles. The first slide shows the main budget priorities. When we consider the so - called consolidated social budget, which includes education, health care, social security, spiritual and physical development, its drinking weight has increased to 52.1 percent, as you can see on the next slide. One of the most important social issues in the following year is the introduction of a minimum wage of 237 dollars for budget workers. In this regard, the draft budget provides for an increase of 2.3 billion dollars, more than 1.5 billion dollars in local budgets to ensure the implementation of the supplementary mechanism. This increase in wages changes the economic structure of budget expenditure to wages. You can see on the slide, if you compare the share of the cost of work with both the State Budget and the local budget, their percentage increases significantly in the proposed bill, which is also evidence of an increase in the social orientation of the budget. There are many different thoughts. It is said that this budget is a budget for eating. But you could probably agree with that if we didn't increase the cost of investment projects, agriculture, road agriculture, defense, where I'm going to stay. The bill also proposes that the special fund of the State Budget be added to the value added tax, which is paid by farmers with further allocations to agricultural producers to increase the production volume of animal production and poultry production, take measures to increase the production volume of plant production. In this context, we want to make a special point. We're going to completely pay off the tax debt at the added cost. There is a proposal to expand the business circle, where part of the profit should be eliminated. For the first time, it's a government programme for prejudice and the elimination of problems that have accumulated in housing and utilities. In order to improve the quality and efficiency of the investment, this program will work in co-financing conditions with local budgets. The amount of resources that will be involved to prejudice the elimination of water supply problems is 800 million dollars. I want to point out that another feature of the budget project was the stability of all forms, methods and rules of income and expenditure formation. In combination with political and economic stability, it allows us to predict positive changes over the coming years and to ensure that the government and the socio-economic development programme you have approved are implemented. I'm going to stop at some of the main points that are based on the concept of building a budget. The budget is reality, balance, transparency. As far as reality is concerned. The slide shows the basic parameters of the conservative scenario. Today, it can be noted that macroeconomic and financial stability, achieved in recent years, has gained steady development. At the same time, a conservative scenario of Ukraine’s economic, social development forecast has been put at the heart of the budget indicators to ensure that they are realistic. This is due to the need for insurance for economic risks. The budget should not pose a threat to balance, in the event of complications or a fall in prices on metal. in the economies of the major trading partners. We should not forget that the proportion of our country's GDP exports is quite significant. Moreover, the probability of a form restriction should not be ignored. legislative bases for making large-scale changes in internal conditions compared to this year. I'm going to say that the conditions for applying the target scenario may be to take more decisive steps towards reforming tax legislation and getting the economy out of the shadows, legalizing income, moving the country into a world trading organisation. But even under a conservative scenario, the amount of the income part of the budget is maximum. The most unbiased indicator is the level of GDP redistribution through the budget. I'll give you 2 digits. When the budget was approved for this year without tax reform, the level of GDP redistribution through the budget was 27.5 percent. For the next year, the tax rate is 27.6 percent. A few words about basic budget parameters. The slide shows the income, the expenditure of the budget. Compared to this year, an increase of 9.3 percent is made. Plus 6.4 billion dollars. Including, for the total fund, 5.2 percent plus 2.9 billion; for the special fund, 26 percent plus 3.5 billion. The following slide compares the income of the consolidated budget of foreign countries per capita. The materials given to you show that the sources will generate revenue growth in the following financial year. I want to focus your attention on the following. The Ministry of Finance has defined and activated the maximum resources available for budgeting. So the government's revenue forecast is a marginal one that ensures its reality. There is no further increase in the amount of budgetary indicators in the existing tax field. The only way to do that is to improve tax legislation. What would I like to say in the context of budgetary balance? The remittances for expenditure should correspond to the amount of revenue in the budget for the relevant budget period, i.e. the amount of taxes foreseen in the budget should be covered by real income. What is done in the income section? This slide shows the tax distribution of the added value. For the first time, it's proposed to reflect the tax on the added value as an expanded balance. Based on the underlying calculations, there is a separate line of tax payments, budgetary compensation, and repayment of outstanding VAT payments. This will allow you to create conditions that will make the added cost unfavourable if you receive tax compensation. In a compendium of repayments for internal government bonds, it will be possible to unlock the problem of the accumulation of VAT unpaid amounts. Another position I'd like to take. This is a bill’s requirement to develop a tax debt payment program at the same time, at least nine percent reduction in its volume. These measures should be aimed at covering the risks associated with tax reform. For the first time, a separate plugin is proposed to approve the fixing of income sources with appropriate administrators. A few words about the characteristics of the spending part. In general, a list of specific applications was reviewed in the form of an expensive part. This will make it possible to clearly define the direction of use of funds and to ensure that funding is targeted. In order to ensure transparency of the distribution of government capital deposits, it is proposed that they be confirmed directly by the principal supervisors as a corresponding supplement to the law. The appendix defines the list and the amount of expenditure on budgetary programmes in the main cost managers, which are state investments in the economy of the country. Compared to this year, this amount has been increased nearly fourfold. One of the priorities of the government’s action programmes is to improve the governance system. And the next slide shows the government's actions when the controls are cut. A few words about the government budget deficit. In 2004, it is projected at 2.4 billion dollars, or 0.9 percent of GDP, including the total fund of 1.9 billion dollars or 0.7 percent. This is related to, I'm drawing your attention to this, only with the issuance of securities to pay off late debt for the value added tax, which meets the requirements of the main fiscal policies for the following year. The following slide shows the state debt payment. At the expense of the State Budget, it is proposed to pay more than 13 billion dollars in debt. We're planning to make a refund next year. A loan to the General Fund of the State Budget is proposed to cover 9.1 billion dollars, including from external sources - 4.6 billion dollars and internally - 4.5 billion dollars. Taking into account the real situation in the external market and the situation in the internal market of capital, this volume of borrowing is as much possible to maintain macroeconomic stability and to continue the positive trend of optimising debt burden on the budget. Next position, forecast of the privatisation of state property. We're going to get 2.1 billion dollars, as defined by the main fiscal policies for next year. The next slide shows the structure of the expenditure of the General Fund of the consolidated budget of Ukraine. Expenditures of the General Fund for the consolidated budget amount to 61 and a half billion dollars, or nearly 6 percent more than the current year. Of this amount, 43.4 percent are funded locally. As I have already stressed in this presentation and have been constantly emphasized by Minfin experts, the main priority of the budget remains the financial provision of the most pressing social problems and programmes aimed at improving the well-being of the population. The next slide shows social protection and social security. The Government’s social protection budget for the following year is increasing and is accounting for almost 18 percent of the total expenditure. This will enable a dynamic increase in the standard of living of the population. The next slide shows the average value of social security expenditure and the total amount of expenditure incurred in the budget compared to the different countries. And we see that the social part of our budget is not so bad. Expenditure on social programs amounts to 52.1 percent of the budget. Compared to 2003, they grew by 4 billion dollars, or 10.6 percent. In the following year an additional one and a half billion dollars were allocated for social protection and social security, or nearly 12 percent more than the current year. The next slide shows expenditure on social programs. They will provide a real opportunity to improve the health care of the population and to carry out the tasks envisioned by the National Doctrine of Educational Development. Over the last three years, social and humanitarian spending has been steadily increasing. The next slide shows the cost of social protection for people with disabilities. For physical education and sports. Next to the coal industry. The following year, expenses increase by $290.2 million. The next slide shows agricultural expenditure. On the next road farm. On the next defense. Defence spending has been increased by nearly one billion dollars since 2003, or 18 percent. What does that have to do with anything? Increases in the cost of military support to pay benefits for seniority and compensation for expenses related to the management of personal income tax. The draft law also increases the costs of the above-planned Ministry of Defence to implement the National Reform and Development Programme of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. In general, defence expenditure accounts for 12 percent of the total public budget expenditure. The basic document of all the issues of deepening market transformations and improving state administration of transformation processes is the Program of Activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, openness, effectiveness, efficiency, which has set clear targets for budgeting, mostly of a social nature. The budget takes into account one of the basic principles of budgeting, an active clear distribution on a stable basis of financial resources between government and local budgets. The planned share of local budget expenditure in Ukraine’s budget increased from 42.4 percent to 43.4 percent in the following year. The next slide shows the dynamics of local budgets. The amount of local budget expenditure, without consideration, I emphasize that inter-budget transfers amount to 29.8 billion dollars, which exceeds the corresponding rate of 2.6 billion dollars or almost 10 percent. The budget takes into account the specific costs of addressing specific problems in the regions, namely, the return and siege of the Crimean Tatar people and persons of other nationalities; the socio-economic development of the city of Sevastopol; the comprehensive socio-economic development programme of the Great Yalta, and so on. In general, the application of new improved forms of inter-budgeting mechanisms provides a basis for the implementation of planned indicators, both government and local budgets, and for the continuation of reforms in the area of public finances. Another important point is the novelty in the reality of budgeting approaches. We have calculated and grouped risks and compensators for the following year. So the main factor that has led to some of the specificities of the budget is that, over the next year, the legislation simultaneously plans for fundamental changes: tax reform, the loss of resources, and the need to address socio-economic priorities and structural economic reconstruction, minimum wage provision, pension reform, reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, is an increase in expenditure. Of course, lowering tax pressure is a positive factor. However, we need to realize that the full compensation for the reduction of interest on the basis of shadow turnover is not expected in the first year of the reform. A large proportion of businesses work in a corrupt or low-income way. Financial calculations are not perfect. the increase in receivables and creditors' debt. GDP growth is largely seen in areas where the first year is no longer a year away. The increase in production increases the amount claimed before VAT damages. The value added tax is also part of the risk area. The following slide shows the risks and offsets of the budget project. It raises concerns about the large amount of tax debt. The work of the relevant sectors of the economy and, above all, the agri-industrial complex, industrial production and other sectors of the economy, which will cease to play a role as a budgetary base. GDP formation, i.e. the probability of it being increased by export-oriented sectors and sectors for which the tax benefit does not increase the resource base of the budget. The Ukrainian National Budget Act proposes to suspend a number of provisions on VAT legislation and corporate income tax. These additional resources should cover possible unforeseeable budget losses in connection with tax reform. It is also envisaged that domestic government loans will be issued in the amount of 1.9 billion dollars that will solve the problem of repayment of outstanding VAT repayments. In line with the government’s mandate, it is envisaged that an effective tax debt relief program will be established, and this is a reality in connection with a reduction in the tax burden on businesses. In order to ensure the guaranteed funding of projected expenditure in case of non-compliance with the forecast revenues of the local budgets, as defined by Minfin. In determining inter-budget transfers, as well as in order to secure financing for immediate investment expenditure, it is proposed to provide short and medium-term funding in the following year. interest-free loans on a backdrop to local authorities and self-governance. It is planned to approve the passports of the budget programmes that should ensure that the expenditure is spent more efficiently and that the budget is optimised. There are other points that have been reflected in the bill. The need to end certain tax laws, to generate costs for road transport, to ensure full need for additional costs to increase the military’s financial security. One more. Overall, the additional need for programme budget managers is estimated at 34 billion dollars. So that makes up, just think about it, half the resources of the budget. Thus, in order to meet budget requirements in the next year, the GDP forecast will have to be about 400 billion dollars or nearly 1.5 times more predictable. Thus, most of the requirements approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine are included in the draft budget for the following year. At the same time, it is urgent to resolve the problems associated with the inefficiency of the existing system of budget spending. To this end, the draft budget aims to deepen the application of the programme-based approach to budget implementation by streamlining and optimizing the network of budgetary institutions, implementing the principles of the gradual transition from the maintenance of budgetary institutions and allocating funds for the provision of social services through the public procurement mechanism. The introduction of passports for budget programmes, increased control over the collection of liabilities for funds managers, and improved management of budgetary resources. Prohibitions on the conduct of budgeting with State and local budgets in non-cash forms, improved State control over the efficient spending of budgetary resources, continued reform of budgetary relations with central and local levels of government, the introduction of average fiscal management and the channelling of funds for the development of institutional and innovative activities of the State. Financial resources in the State Budget project are allocated in the priority directions and through specific national programmes in the fields of education, health care, and so forth. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the honourable ones present. The budget proposed for your consideration is real, balanced, transparent, addressing the immediate problems of socio-economic nature and structural changes in the national economy. The bill in question takes into account, on the one hand, the legislative framework for reducing the tax burden on the economy. On the other hand, it takes into account the need to solve the accumulated problems and, above all, the socio-economic nature. This is financial security, wage increases and social guarantees, pension reform and reform of the Armed Forces, etc. Please accept the draft law before consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u76	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to sign up for a question if there are. The report lasted much longer than we agreed. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Vladimir Pehota, European Choice Group. The next question is to ask Larin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u77	Dear Head, dear Mikola Janovich! After listening to your report, I would like to ask just one question. The revenue part of the budget is based on an active tax system, or we need to make a number of amendments to the existing laws in parallel with the budget, so that there is a fulfillment of what we have planned. Or is it going to be a budget reserve?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u78	The law is based on an active tax system. We have proposals to improve tax legislation that will generate additional budget costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u79	Dear fellows, Laryn passes the word to the Master. Please. He's a craftsman.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u80	Dear Mikola Janovich! Wait a minute. Mikola Janović, I think this bill on the State Budget is a fairly balanced and very many positive points that need to be addressed, especially if we consider that we are not going very confident about tax reform right now. And it will be very difficult to do so in view of the problem. But I wanted to get your attention and get an answer about taking credits into account. Why is this problem too small in this draft budget law, and what is the government going to do next year in view of this problem? Because there's one and a half billion dollars. And today, if we don't deal with this problem, then our debtors, after all, we won't be able to get anything out of them. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u81	This budget resource is allocated annually to the income part of the budget. And it's not being implemented every year. Why is this happening? First of all, because government guarantees were granted mainly in the 93s, in the 95s. Since then, many times have changed, including the form of ownership and governance, and it is now very difficult to find a real offender in these loans. Regrettably, the large State budget therefore has the main costs of paying the principal body of credit and interest on loans. This type of resource is a risk resource. The budget therefore has an article planned, but one naturally does not cover all costs under this heading. But I reiterate that, unfortunately, the budget is now paying off, and every quarter of the budget is the payment of our predecessors' debts, and we simply have no right to make an unrealistic return figure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u82	Yes, Bauer, the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and Hard Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u83	Dear Mikola Janović, why has there been no full implementation since 1996 of article 157 of the Education Act, which deals with the equalization of wages for teachers at the level of industrial wages? That's the first question. And second, what is the 10 percent increase in education expenditure? If you can, decipher it, please. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u84	Additional allocations have been made for the next year to provide for the annual cost of minimum wage payments to education workers and to restore the ratios in office salaries as determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. In addition, there have been increased numbering of priority budget programmes: the production and acquisition of textbooks and textbooks for students of higher education and students of general education and vocational and technical institutions in the amount of over 90 million dollars, the acquisition of rural buses for rural general education schools in the amount of 33.5 million dollars, the provision of extra-priority travel for students and students of higher and vocational technical schools in railway transport in the amount of 33.7 million dollars, for information and for others. That's the answer to the second question. Let's go first. Let us be realistic, now the budget is not able to pay the pay in the light at the level of equal pay in the industry. It's a reality and it's a fact. It's a sad fact, but it's a fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u85	Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u86	Dear Mikolo Janovich, first of all, I want to thank you for the first time in Parliament today. And we believe that in a year you will speak the pure English. And the question is essentially. Dear Mikolo Janovich, remember, we had a deal with you, and your word for us is high, you never lied to us, in the sense that when we take off the village benefits, these village benefits come back as a supply. You know that since 2004, taxes on added value will not work as a benefit for peasants. 20 percent of it was left as a price subsidy. This totals a billion 800 million in previous years. You're only planning 600 million dollars for the Special Fund. So we've lowered the known price by all kinds of products seriously without making up for anything. The other one. In this year neither the legislative requirements nor our agreement were met that 30 percent of the capital deposits would be issued to the village, to rural construction. This is not done this year, no change is planned. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u87	Katerina Timofeevna, I think that you and I and the Agrarian Policy Committee are going to take a special look at this issue. I don't want to go into detail right now, and we're going to devote a special session of the Agrarian Committee to deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u88	Peter Toloczko, National Authority MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u89	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I give the floor to Vadim Mikolaiovich Gurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u90	Vadim Gurov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear Mikolo Janović, article 66 of the 2004 budget stipulates that 15 percent of the net revenue of state-owned, corporate enterprises is included in the state budget. What do we have? 30 percent is income tax, 15 percent is another income tax, dividends. And that's going to be 46-47 percent. One Creebrisstal paid 172 million dollars in the budget. This is because the state has not compensated 50 million. VAT money. Of the 230 privatized enterprises, only seven companies paid dividends -- five million of them. And they're 83 percent. So what are we doing? These are unequal conditions, and this is nowhere to be found, Mikolo Janovich. What is your position on this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u92	Well, first of all, we put in a tax return on the added value. And, I think we're the Creakers, we're gonna make up for what we owe. As for your direct question, I'll answer it directly. I think this tax for state-owned enterprises is discriminatory -- that's my answer as a specialist. Besides, I'm also a finance minister who counts how much money has to come into the government budget. And for whoever else you can get from, not from state-owned enterprises, Vadim Mikolaiovich, let's be honest. Who else can I get from?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u93	Thank you. Time's up. Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov, instead of Nosenko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u94	Dear Mikolo Janovich! Two questions. First. How will you get out of the situation following the President's decree approving the National Security Council's decision to fund the defence needs in connection with the reform of the Armed Forces, which provides for completely different funding figures for this area? That's the first one. And the second. How do you think to get out of the situation, because the Constitution prohibits narrowing the scope of social guarantees, and this is confirmed by the Constitutional Court, and the draft budget puts the same rules back into place. That's the question. And in order for me not to speak, I just want to say that those numbers of increasing defence spending are quite illusory, because of these 913 million more than 500 million, the money that needs to be paid back to the military in connection with the expansion of their personal tax, 100 million will eat Iraq, our adventure in this, and even more than 200 is the program for the AN-70, a program that is very much needed, but it's not solving today's defence problems. It's just that the population doesn't have the impression that we've actually been given almost a billion more to defend. That's not true. These are the two questions that I'm going to ask you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u95	The budget is based on real resources, and defence expenditures are therefore planned at the highest possible level. 12 % of the total budget. Georgi Korneevich, believe me, this is the maximum that the State budget can afford. That's what we're gonna come up with.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u96	Thank you, Mikola Janovich, time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u97	I'll answer again. Next time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u98	Yes, a report from the Committee on Budget Affairs. Porcelain Peter Alexiovich. I'd like to ask you, Peter Alexiyovich, within the limits of the rules. Then let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Victor Fedorovich! Dear colleagues! I'd like to start from a very procedural point of view, because for the first time in the history of Ukraine, the government submitted a budget by September 15th. This enabled us to prepare ourselves qualitatively for the presentation of the budget and start in fact, if today the Supreme Council permits it, the work on the budget is already September 17th, and 22-23 as it was in previous years. I mean, it's an additional one week for you people's deputies who will be able to carefully process the government draft budget and, in accordance with the budget code, submit to the budget committee by October 1st, the corresponding proposals, the comments that should be included in the comparative table. I, Your Honor, would like to remind you once again of the purpose of our meeting today. We should either make a decision today or make a decision to adopt a decision that is not voted on in accordance with the budget code. Or a decision to be put to the vote on the rejection of the draft budget prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers and the basis for that could be only the inadequateness of the Constitution, the inadequacy of the Budget Code, the legislation or the budget resolution, the decision on the basis of the direction of budgetary policy, which was voted by the Supreme Council at the end of the last session. At its meeting on Monday, the Budget Committee also held a presentation on Ukraine’s draft State Budget Act. After a thorough discussion, they decided to invite the Supreme Council to accept the budget for consideration, despite the huge number of shortcomings that I would stop at later. But the Council’s objectivity would like to start with the positive that this project has. The first thing I said about the time of submission. The other one. In fact, the Budget Resolution has been implemented that the level of GDP redistribution through the consolidated budget, taking into account the target funds, is at least 38 percent. The other one. For the first time in the methodology of the budget process, there was a consolidation of the State Budget’s income distribution between the contracting authorities. Now, every contracting authority has a clear mandate in the law to raise the revenue of the State Budget. For the first time in the government's budget practice to meet the requirement of the Budget Committee and the Supreme Council, which was reflected in the main directions of budgetary policy, tax benefits have been calculated as part of the State Budget special fund. For the first time, the project provides a transparent distribution of government funds. Now, of course, that raises a huge number of questions today, but the basis for us to start work is already with you, your honorary colleagues, we have. The rule that we voted with you has been fulfilled, which allows us to avoid the conflict that we had at the end of last year, when the minimum wage for the following year was approved by a separate law. Today this is directly in the text of the Ukrainian State Budget Act. Along with the draft State Budget Act, the government gave us a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of 9.09.2003 on the forecasting of basic expenditure income and funding for the period 2005-2007. That is, the government today had the opportunity to declare its vision of budgetary policy not only for the following year but for the years ahead. And this is also the fulfilment of the requirements of the Budget Resolution. But that's the end of the budget proposal, based on our analysis. I would like to stop at the biggest setbacks of the government project. First and foremost, the draft budget does not provide the full cost of the minimum wage even in the amount of 237 dollars. I'm drawing your attention, dear colleagues, that the country's living minimum is rising as a result of inflation in 2004, and the minimum wage is still the same as it used to be. So this will actually lead to a deterioration in the standard of living of the least protected population. And the argument is that we're lowering the income tax on citizens doesn't work, because it was because they had the income tax on that tax, and they have the most pressure on them. In addition, the government's project does not solve the problem of rebalancing, and the government is proposing that the wages of a cleaning woman and a certified professional with a job history are rapidly approaching. In fact, we're depriving people of their qualifications and we're only bringing the extra mechanism to the minimum wage, which directly contradicts the basic social requirement of the budget resolution. I am convinced that this is the norm here, the situation is unacceptable, and the Supreme Council must redesign this position of the government project. We're told that it takes 5 billion. That's right. The previous calculations made in the budget committee state that there are substantial errors here, that there will be a much smaller amount, about twice as much, and we will be able to work with the government in an agreed position to improve this most important social indicator. The government is also not taking into account the extremely painful subject at present, as it is almost impossible for me to maintain the current level of prices on the basis of food products today. We are confident that, in order to ensure that the level of social protection and the standard of living of the population are maintained, the government had to provide in the draft budget for a targeted subsidy to compensate for the increase in prices on basic food products. We didn't see that either. It would be desirable, and I am convinced that today this should be the case in statements that, according to the Constitution, according to Ukrainian legislation, the draft state budget law and the law itself cannot contain, because it contradicts the tax system law, any tax money. These should be given in the form of separate laws. I'm assuming that they can vote with a package, but it shouldn't be part of the draft budget law. Unfortunately, here we continue the shameful practice of previous years, as well as the practice of suspending the law, the article of the law on the budget of the most important social benefits and guarantees. I am confident that the government should have come out, taken political responsibility and come out with a legislative initiative that would allow it to adopt, organise legislation on tax benefits, finally define the requirement of a budget resolution to replace aid for an address grant and guarantee it in full terms of funding. Secondly, today the committee is probably unable to assess the level of budget reality. This morning, I was sitting as the deputy head of the National Bank Board, and I can inform you that it was only this morning that the National Bank Board approved the basic principles of monetary policy and the National Bank's assets. In the course of the discussion, the base rate of the exchange rate reported by the head of the National Bank was set at $5.38 a dollar. The budget is at level 5. 52. And right now, just to politically align the government project with the decisions of the main council, the decision states that the course will be 5.38-5.42. So for today, I'm confident that the government's imperfections in legislation have been placed in extremely difficult conditions, and the calculation of the main macroeconomic indicator has been done, well, in Russian, in the eye. I would also like to remind you of the main problems in GDP accounting. I'm sorry, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we've had 15 minutes in the O.R. I would ask that we act according to the rules. Dear colleagues, we have. I want to remind you of an extremely principled indicator of gross domestic product. This figure last year in the government project was brought to a level of 247 billion dollars. After the budget was converted to work, the government somehow reduced its estimate of gross domestic product to 240 billion. Today we see that 247 are being implemented. You can see how imperfect the method of calculating gross domestic product is. Now we see again that about 274 billion governments are giving a gross domestic product, with real GDP growth, notice, in a conservative scenario it's 4.8 percent, the target scenario is 8 percent, that is, twice because of random factors, the government is keeping the leverage to actually calculate the income portion of the budget, where all the indicators are based on a negative target scenario. This reminds me very much of last year's practice when we were again trying to impose a budget with an income of 46 billion, and the Supreme Council convinced us that a budget of 54 billion should be adopted, which is now being successfully implemented. Georgi Korniyovich raised questions about the implementation of the President's decree to implement the Security and Defence Council's decisions on the financing of the Armed Forces. The problem is much deeper. And I would like to ask the President's representative in Alexander the Road that this practice must certainly be stopped, because the President is issuing decrees, the financial justification of the decrees is not budget-bound, he disagrees with the government, he disagrees with the Ministry of Finance. And in fact, we are adopting resourceless presidential decrees that are physically incapable of being implemented. Therefore, the request that the procedure for the adoption of these decrees be substantially improved. I'm also convinced that the question that Suskevitch asked on the committee about the abolition of the benefits that disabled businesses have, this strange innovation, as he rightly said at the committee meeting, needs a very serious analysis. And if the benefits are cancelled, according to the 8th, we have to provide for a clear budget compensation. As for the rest of the indicators. I don't want to talk about canceling VAT for farmers right now. I'm sure that, as long as we don't foresee a specific targeted programme of head-end subsidies, per hectare, per tonne, it's extremely dangerous -- it's now an irresponsible decision, especially when agriculture comes out of this difficult situation that it's in because of these weather conditions. We received a letter from the profile committee. And, of course, the Budget Committee and the Supreme Council should take that position into account. It also raises doubts as to the position of compensation for the added value of securities. This is an artificial, forced imposition of securities. Many former business leaders sit here. Well, what are you doing with them, with these valuable papers? This is the professional position of banks. Place these securities in banks, account for yourself, fulfill your obligations to the operators, start this car, and I am convinced that you are being thanked for solving the VAT problem of the entire economy of Ukraine. I would like to put a stop to the problem of local budgets. Dear colleagues, these figures that we're talking about the kind of increase in the budget, the consolidated budget, actually contains a bomb of deliberate action. If the budget was adopted in the way the government gave us, we have a hugely serious threat that, starting in the second half of 2004, we will have a process that will almost be impossible to stop in the accumulation of the debt on wages. The hole in local budgets is at least two billion dollars. And this practice that we have stood up to, the Supreme Council, here I don't want to give anyone laurels, the Supreme Council has stood by the local budgets and the reality of their indicators shows the implementation of local budgets this year. I am convinced that we will be able to come to an understanding with the government here. Dear colleagues, of course, we have a very difficult job ahead of us. First of all, looking for real government revenue mobilization and an increase in income. We've already seen it, I'm afraid to call it sums, but the huge amounts of revenue that the mechanisms have put in place, and in addition to the revenue of the state budget, they haven't been included. The question of government debt becomes a separate one. For example, the release of government securities, which I mentioned, was not included in government debt. But these arithmetic errors, I'm convinced that we have enough political will to find understanding and propose for first reading and second reading is consistent, better, without jeopardizing reality and balance, a draft state budget worked out. And in closing, I want to say that there is a very dangerous attempt to use the budget process, the procedure for adopting the law to break this room. I am confident that the draft State Budget Act, the consideration of this issue, should be a consolidating factor in favour of the electorate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u100	Please sign up for the questions. Peter Alexiovich, in seven minutes. Vadim Gurov, next Matvienkov. Please fill out the list.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u101	It's not working, Vadim Mikolaiovich. Please, Vadim Gurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u102	The question I asked Mikola Janovich, you heard, I won't take time. What is your position on this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u103	I'm going to have a slightly different position from that of Mikola Janovich. It was our suggestion that we should remove part of the profits of state-owned enterprises as owners and direct them to finance social articles. But you're absolutely right about the fact that there can't be a balance sheet. And a commercial enterprise with a zero rate or a zero rate difference can't pay as much as a state-owned enterprise, a monopoly on a market that has 300 percent of its profitability. And I know your proposal, we fully support it in the budget committee, that we had an agreement, it was fixed in the budget resolution. Mikolo Janovich, for your part, we're going to hold a council to improve the mechanism for removing part of the revenue of state-owned enterprises. We agreed that we're going to do it after 20 numbers and we're going to introduce a differentiated rate of revenue elimination, of machine improvement, because this order today is threatening to discredit the idea itself that works and mobilizes 400 million dollars, dear friends, to finance the social problems of the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u104	Matthew Anatoly. The next Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u105	Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Peter Alexiyovich, please tell me, do you not think that 8.1 billion dollars is an unwarranted increase in the payroll fund? What's more, the income pay fund counts twice, first of all, an unwarranted increase, and second of all, a shadow, so-called, a child's pay, and an extra income is counted into the budget, and hence they're unrealistic. And the second question. Have you analyzed the budget for the implementation of the laws adopted by the Supreme Council? In particular, I'd like you to clarify. We passed the law on the Irpine experiment. It hasn't been funded in two years. Will we not continue to finance similar decisions, such as the laws of the Supreme Council and, in particular, the Irpine experiment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u106	Thank you, Your Honor Anatoly Sergiyovich. Well, once again, the purpose of our consideration today is to match the draft budget for Ukraine's legislation. We're going to run a budget analysis when we take the law on processing. But just now, a preliminary analysis shows that there are serious errors in the calculation of the salary fund. And this is what, not any attempt to politicize the process, is causing our extremely serious concern about the reality of the local budgets. We already have an appropriate argument today that we're going to work with the government to clarify these figures, and I'm sure we can prove it. The second question. Regrettably, there are now more than 6,000 legislative and regulatory acts that provide for adequate budgetary funding. Including the Irpine experiment. We demanded in the budget resolution that the government be immediately. Inventory of these programs, cancelled those that he considers to be underfunded, defined only those priorities that would reflect and coincide with the government's political strategy. Sadly, under different circumstances. Including the way that we were involved in constant budget changes in connection with the adoption of the minimum wage law, in connection with other problems. An integrated, professional work on the budget, unfortunately, we have a simple one. The government just didn't have time to do it. Now we're going to have to fix this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u107	Please, Sergey Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u108	Thank you. Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Peter Alexievich, I have two questions. Question one. Well, no one can help but worry about the situation that is currently facing local budgets. The seizure mechanism remained the same. The local budget replenishment mechanism is an income tax, so to speak, what we have adopted so far. It is not yet possible to analyse the accrual mechanism. Two billion griffen. In honor, I am concerned about the same city of Mariupol. How are we going to get out of this situation, where we are going to look for funds, and how are we going to deal with this problem? That's the first question. And the second question. 60 percent of GDP is exports. This year's course is less progressive than it was set even last year. But we're talking about external borrowing now, we're talking about domestic borrowing. Well, why don't we, so to speak, go to the learned, tested States in ways: so to speak, leave a course so that we can at least solve the problem of exporters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u109	Thank you. Well, your honorary colleague Sergei, you know that we are going to solve the problems of local budgets just as we, including with your help, solved the problems last year when, including the city of Mariupol, we received additional, clearly calculated budgetary resources, which were extremely scarce. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that as of today, 75 percent of the local budgets are devoted to wage financing. In individual local budgets, 98 percent make up protected articles. What development, what local self - government can we talk about at this level of funding? So we need our common consolidated position with you. I started with that. In terms of course. The Budget Committee will consider the main macroeconomic indicators separately at its meeting. I encourage, I invite all the people's deputies who have the opportunity to express their position, to participate in shaping the decisions of the Committee on Budgets, the proposals that we will make in the Supreme Council, to take a look at the timetable that I signed a week ago, and to participate in the meeting of the Committee on Budgets. Like last year, we're going to do it transparently, openly. The request that national MPs do not turn away from this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u110	Vladimir Masterskin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u111	Request to convey the word to the Deputy Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u112	MP Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u113	Thank you. Peter Alexiovich, three brief questions. Will the budget committee support our proposals for the 2004 draft budget? Bridge crossings, costs are still unsettled. This is a strategic object through the Dnipro River in Zaporozhye. The Section of the Covens, where some island of Hortica fell from, the National Reserve of our sovereign Ukraine to get it back. And as you look at the proposal for the AN-70 project, which is also a national programme and developmental priority, 30 million dollars have been allocated to the completion of the project, the Ministry of Prompolitics thinks. 20 million to complete the production of the D-27 engine for AN-70. Because this D-27 engine can be used on a long-distance AN-180, heavy-duty helicopter, and as a gas generator. Thank you. Three questions: bridges, Horticians and AN-70. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u114	Thank you, Reverend Jaroslav Mikhailovich. I can't tell you how the Budget Committee is going to feel right now. The atmosphere in the committee is democratic, decisions are taken by vote. I can tell you about my personal attitude. As no one knows, you and I have participated in the session of the Zaporez City Council, where we approved, we have supported the decision to build bridges. So my personal position, of course, is that bridge financing should be restored. The other one. We were in Horticia together, we were involved in the consideration of this issue. And the financing of the Hortica Reserve should definitely be restored. And the third is about the construction of the AN-70. I think if the government has identified this program as a priority, this is the right of the government, Ukraine should have its own plane. The amount of funding depends on the level of income that the State budget will have. But as a program, it certainly deserves support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u115	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. From the faction, the word is given to Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich. The next one is Zibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u116	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear national MPs, distinguished government officials! Too bad there is no Prime Minister now, there is no First Deputy Prime Minister in the discussion. And I think I'd like to look them in the eye when I ask them a question: who gave the right to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the first Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine to violate this document, the Constitution of Ukraine. What do I mean? I mean tens of thousands, I repeat, tens of thousands of court decisions that lie in the State Treasury today and in the government, and that are not implemented with the resolutions of Azarov -- not implemented. Who gave you the right to change the Constitution? I remind those who have forgotten, and I remind the Attorney General so far, so for the time being, the Attorney General should read part five of article 124 of the Constitution: judicial decisions are approved by the courts in the name of Ukraine and are required to be implemented throughout Ukraine. You're not executed today just this year for $140 million. The amount of decisions taken by citizens from the state. Thus, in the actions of the Head of State, in the actions of the Minister of Finance, there are signs of criminal crime: failure to execute judicial decisions. I'm paying attention to the budget committee, Mr. Poshenko's very professional report, but I didn't say anything about it. I don't know why. I'm paying attention to the presence here, somewhere else, of Valentina Simonka, that so far funding and the work of the State Department of Affairs, the so-called DUSI, is going on. Moreover, the Court of Auditors has not yet carried out its audit to implement Parliament's decisions. I'm drawing the attention of the people of Ukraine to the huge affair that the government is proposing, four times putting on the last session and now, preaching that this is a panacea of all woes, 1.9 billion. VAT bonds. Dear government officials! You got $2 billion in the budget. This year's money. When did you use them? Dear government officials! You're still adding 300 to the coal sector, and they're not coming to the coal sector! You didn't find them on the industry and so on, you say a more social budget. No, Mikolo Janovich! It's not more of a social budget, it's a scary budget, because you call it 52.1 percent of the budget. What's going to happen from the State Budget? You don't even expect 237 dollars to finance the minimum wage. What are you doing now? You're completely torpedoing local budgets. What do you do with judicial authority? You put it on your knees. You're counting on one judge in the district court 30 to 40,000 dollars, 60 in the appeal court, 300 in the Supreme Court, 800,000 in the Constitution again to provide one. So maybe you can do it, bring it to some coefficient. Well, maybe that's good enough for you. And in the end, I want the cost of keeping a contingent in Iraq, that was eliminated from defence spending, that was not the cost of defending Ukraine, that was the cost of voting for it, that was the government spending, that was the cost of getting it out of the President's administration, that was the faction they sent there, because it wasn't for defending Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u117	The word is given by the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Next Winsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u118	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Cibenko Dear colleagues, we are having our first discussion of budget projects today. Obviously, it will not be too deep, since a short period of time has elapsed since the document arrived. Still, I would like to share my first impressions. I'd like to start by saying that very often we don't notice the positive that's in the draft budget. I'd like to say we do. In particular, the 2004 budget is more structured from the point of view of sources of income and direction of use. In particular, at social costs, I welcome the fact that in one article of the 25th, all social programs are assembled, and that's a whole series of other moments, positive, they're gathered somewhere on one page. Sadly, though, the negative proposals to disagree with the committee are far more. I'll start with the most important ones. First, most of all, honourable colleagues, once again in the 2004 draft budget, there is bad practice, and I would like to say more harshly, criminal practice, when one article, article of the Budget Act replaces the operation of articles on social protection of citizens. Dear colleagues, this is not a civilized way of moving forward, we need to implement an accepted regulatory base, a legislative base. If there is no possibility, we need to match the situation with the money. But you can't pretend that nothing's happening. The second observation is of a general nature. I would like us to constantly compare the draft budget not only with the previous budget but also with how it is written in the current legislation. So let's say it's an illustration. This project of the State Budget provides that for a one-time payment of aid, the one-time payment for Victory Day increases by about 30 to 40 dollars. I can't help it. But on the other hand, this is only a third of the legal standard. So it's worth about 800 million, and it's 140. Here's the price of this standard. Third general comment. I will never, as chairman of the committee, agree that the disabled have deprived the aids that are provided for in the current legislation, because that means that we put them in the same line as the businesses where healthy people work, and that is the way to destroy these businesses that are created with such great difficulty. And one more moment. In the near future, social benefits are expected to be transferred from the Chernobyl Ministry to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. You have to be very careful here, and from the point of view of finance, from the point of view of state security, and so on and so forth. And as an illustration, a few specific figures. Well, look. Disability compensation for gas and car repairs are minus 3.7 million. Sanitary and health care for people with disabilities is minus 112 million dollars. Setting up phones for the first and second groups is minus 3 million dollars. One-time material aid to disabled people is minus 43 million dollars. Providing disabled people with prosthetics and rehabilitations is minus 13 million and so on and so forth. I think we need a solid, social chapter of the budget based on the government, the profile committee, and we need to rework with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you a question. Please, I've already announced from the Socialist Party of Ukraine. But we'll keep moving on to the list. So that's how we thought: factions of the committee, and then MPs of ourselves. Let's go get the list. Please, Joseph Vicentiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u120	Wynski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is critical of the budget, and we will certainly be working on it seriously. But we feel that the measures that are being proposed are not enough. What do we have in the heroic social, as we are told, the budgets of Ukraine? We have $337 per capita in budget expenditure. For comparison: 800 in Russia, 1800 in Poland. How can we talk about the social budget? How can we say that we are dealing with any matter of the state's life with such an amount per Ukrainian citizen? So the main conclusion is that the government is not proposing anything new in this sense, and there is no real step towards filling the budget. 79.4 billion expenditure on the budget is a figure that is insufficient and unacceptable to the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Next. The budget is based on a figure of 237 gross minimum wage, without inter-mission breaks, as provided for by law. I remind you that this is the 2003 budget figure, and we're talking about the next budget, in 2004, where this figure is to be taken into account for about 347 dollars of minimum wage. So today, in this budget, there's artificially more than 100 dollars below the minimum wage. By the way, the government would have to file a draft law on minimum wage, as it should be, but it's not done. And obviously, on purpose, this is done to make it as it did in the previous year -- the possibility of then redesigning the budget, as it were. The next question is capital investment. 185 million nationals and 400 million locals are zero. This is a figure, for the broken economy of Ukraine, it doesn't mean anything. And the state that invests that kind of money in the economy doesn't have a socio-economic perspective. That, I think, is perfectly understandable. We're not actually introducing the Customs Code, we're not introducing the State Construction Financing Act to the full extent that, for the fourth year in a row, we're voting for the construction of the Kiev-Odessa pay road. In doing so, we place the Ukrainian railway on hold. Where the logic of this approach to the budget is not clear at all. The value added tax problem has not been solved. The return scheme was absurd and remains. We choose VAT for bread, for milk, for water, for clothing in our disadvantaged people, for pensioners, for unemployed, and so on, to return billions of dollars to the tens of our oligarchs who export and export raw materials from Ukraine. Where is the logic in this approach of government? I think that the government is deliberately not solving this problem in Ukraine because it's working in a contract with several oligarchic groups that are just robbing the state. And the last. My second public address is to Prime Minister Yanukovich of Ukraine, who unfortunately is not, but I think he will be handed over. Victor Fedorovich, can't you and a million officials handle Ukraine's crude domestic product? Do you believe that you have signed in a budget that seems to be in Ukraine today a thousand dollars of gross domestic product per capita? I don't think there's one sane person who thinks that a thousand dollars of GDP is a real GDP figure in Ukraine. It's absolutely clear that it's a shadow, and from this shadow of the economy, the government isn't going to pull out.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u121	Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov. Next Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u122	Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear colleagues! Dear government officials! I understand the complexity of the government's budgeting. In this regard, I would like to make such a request. Let us stop deceiving our people and give the impression that we have a country going up. Today’s consideration of the budget shows that we have no encouragement. In a critical situation, we have virtually every aspect of our national economy. We can't find a penny to solve the most pressing problems, but you turn on the radio and you hear that we're all over Europe all the time. That's the first one. The other one. I'd like the government to come out of the real situations that are now in society, especially in the defence sector. Dear colleagues! We all see that it is impossible for Ukraine to endure such an army. It needs to be reduced. Today, the press publishes figures that the minister of defense called. To cut the army from 395,000 to 200,000. It's a huge reduction that needs a huge amount of money. There's an order from the President. There is a decision of the National Security and Defence Council that all members of the National Security and Defence Council have called for. I don't understand how one hand can sign a document like that and another hand can say that there's nothing we can do about it. I'd like to say here that our committee demanded for several years in a row - I didn't ask, I demanded! - to implement the Constitution, to enforce the National Security and Defence Council Act and to have the defence budget reviewed by the National Security and Defence Council. Last year was considered and considered this year. But consider it literally the day before you made the budget. We asked that it be done in time. Take care of yourself, dignitaries, in all these matters. I'm not part of the National Security Council. And let's solve these questions as it is. I would like to say once again that there is no increase in the defence budget. I asked, said I. I would like to say that against the past, 15 percent of the costs of reform and development of the Armed Forces are falling -- exactly what is needed. The cost of purchasing weapons and military equipment is nearly halving. It's almost seven times the technology. The cost of ensuring the viability of the explosives we have is decreasing. However, the cost of international operations has doubled. And the last. I would like to draw attention once again to the social problems that there are in the military that are among our veterans. Today, we have received materials from the government that are expected to eliminate pension disparities over the period 2003-2004, depending on the retirement period. We're not doing anything about it this year. The following year, 213 million are allocated, and one and a half million are needed. And what are we going to do? And one more thing. I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that trying to solve the problems of depriving citizens of social security, including through the transition to so-called targeted assistance. It's a step towards a social explosion. And it's impossible to let that happen. If he does, it will be on the conscience of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u123	Valentina Semenyuk, next up is Nadragha.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u124	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Honorable colleagues, government representatives, distinguished voters. In which we hear in this room that we have a social budget. What do we have in reality? What is foreseen for 2004? Social programs accounted for 11.9 percent. In 2003, we had 13.5 percent. In 2002, 16.9. So the question is, is it social law or is it unsocial? That's the first one. It's different. The budget has again set aside the cost of privatization for budget financing, not the revenue part of the budget, as provided for in the Budget Code, in particular in article 15. So why are we budgeting with contradictions in line with the budget code? The other one. In the program, there's the same ideology in the budget: privatization, sales and sales. Unfortunately, there is no Mr. Janukovic, I wanted to ask him, during the presentation of the Cabinet Program in this room, he said that the Program could be adjusted. After several parliamentary hearings, the result of which was over 400 votes, I thought that the Cabinet of Ministers would consider that it would not go from the realisation of property to the fullness of the budget from production. Unfortunately, we don't have that in the budget again. Once again, the budget provides only 300 million dividends from shares of government property held by statutory funds of other enterprises. What do we have as a result? No one controls this sector. It was at the meeting of the Special Control Commission that we said that yesterday. And what I'm saying is, in general, no one controls the budget of dividends. An example could be a document for the privatisation of Skrtatnafti, where representatives from Ukraine, who should control the coming of funds to the budget, were representatives of Sharov, Minin, Macazzaria, meeting once or twice, and representatives of Tatarstan 12-10. And they always have a clear budget. And as for our funds, there's nothing at all. I think that tomorrow when I report that law, I will be sure to report that question. I want to pay attention to one more detail. Expenses from the budget for the privatization program. Once again, more than 70 million bets. But the main thing is, there's no sign in the directions. What did we see on the committee in the previous years? Last year, 72 million were allocated to the privatization programme. 50 million for just one counselor. Well, given that there's a lot of counselors sitting there from the SDPU, I think that's a very nice figure. I would like to, and this is in the Special Control Commission's decision as a proposal, all directions to be written with regard to the coefficient and the standards provided for in the Privatisation Act. The other one. Keeping government property from rent. It is absolutely necessary to predict 3 percent in order to control how leased property is used and how to return it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u125	Basil Nadrag, please. The next one is Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u126	Vassili Nadrag, People's Choice, Luhansk. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to a few, in my view, sufficiently fundamental things, in that they are fully in line with the ideas and approaches set out in this rostrum. We're talking about next year's budget being social. I have a few questions on this subject, agreeing that it should be. First and foremost. Deeply convinced that the most important social action for the coming year would be the introduction of a new pension system and, accordingly, the reform of existing pensions, and that the State budget should pay the Pension Fund in full all those benefits that are not work pensions. Because if the State budget does not fully return to the Pension Fund, we will not only be able to talk about the increase in pensions, but we will not even be able to make a corresponding recalculation as of 1 January and, accordingly, even those who have the right to a large pension today, who have about 25 per cent of the total, will be able to receive the pension. Therefore, the search for resources for the Pension Fund, I repeat, to pay in full the payments it makes and which are not pension payments, is the primary responsibility of the State budget for the following year. Next question. It is also about the social dimension of the budget. To date, a number of social protection programmes have received funding but have not fully received it. I will give a few examples, in any case on the basis of the documents I have at my disposal. The first is the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities, which is 16 million. Negative. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general Next moment. Next year, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is leaving the Ministry of Chernobyl and Emergency Situations, according to decisions taken. However, based on the figures we have been offered, 240 million people have been killed. It is not enough to cover the debt and compensation of the population in the past years, and this is a problem with which the Chernobyl population has gone to all and not for the first year, the same recovery of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, a lack of funding - minus 73 million. And housing is minus 45 million, housing of the same Chernobyls. Last. With regard to the local budget, he was deeply convinced that the budget committee should work harder here, because the failure to implement the planned income indicators and more than 70 per cent of the revenues from natural persons were sitting in the new law, which would take up 13 per cent of the income from the first January, it might seem that these sources of income would simply not be able to raise the resources they planned for local budgets. And lastly, in captruding and re-arrangement of the coal industry, literally a second. Deeply convinced that the money in the 2004 budget should be spent, but why are we moving 600 million to the General Fund, why can't we just put it in Gosbudget, as it was in the practice that existed for the current budget year? I think the coal industry, if she gets that money in Gosbudget, then she gets that money. Otherwise, there may be options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u127	The word is given by Matthew instead of Soboljev. Next Tomich. Is there no miner or is there?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u128	I'm instead of Gorenik, instead of Sobolev, me and Gorenik made a deal, swapped places, he's going to be 16. Ukrainian Republican Party Sobor, Yulia Timoshenko block, Matvienko. Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the government! Since today's presentation of the budget, the greatest optimism has been given to me, not by certain innovations, which are positive, but by the good Ukrainian language of First Vice-Prime Minister Azarov, with which I sincerely welcome him in this room. And if, I think, it's going to move as fast to Ukraine as it does to Ukrainian language, and especially to EEP, then all the warnings and accusations we can also sometimes take off. It's a matter of fact. I protest today, my esteemed colleagues, against formal consideration and formal observance of the procedure. I don't know what we're doing it for. We used to have one finance minister and we had a budget presentation. Now we're coming to all the government, but talking, I think it's just for the sake of conversation. I'm going to Peter Prashenko and Fedor Alexiyovich, the first deputy minister of finance: there's been an extended meeting, and I said we won't object to accepting the budget in the Supreme Council if you answer at today's meeting the questions that I've been asked about the local budgets. Nothing like what we talked about at an extended meeting of the Committee of Budgets has been said today. What a guarantee, I want to ask my colleagues what we're talking about, someone will hear. I think, let's say every amount in the office -- and it's going to be a time economy. I support Gregory Korniovich that optimism is not in this budget. Look, increasing the budget -- what are we sneezing at? - by 6.1 billion, and an increase of 8.5 billion, an increase of more than 1 billion. So the budget went down by almost 9 billion dollars, not better by 6.1. And given that we're not taking into account the food crisis that's ahead of us, we're not taking into account the energy crisis that we've already entered, I actually have a problem with whether we should take this budget into consideration. Now it's about the local budget. Once again, we show that the local budgets are left behind. I'm surprised how we can support this budget today when the hole in the local budgets is at the very modest rate of 4 billion. I was talking about an unwarranted increase of 8.1 billion in wages, which represents a shortfall of about 1 billion in local budgets. Tax social benefits are down 600 billion. If you're talking about spending, in general, I just want to say, you have to scream. All the local budgets are cash registers. There's no investment, there's no development. The pollinator called it 76 percent, estimated by the committee today to pay 80.2 percent of the local budgets. How can it be said that we support local self - government today, and what do we do? Moreover, we say from this rostrum that the pay of work today involves only the extra mechanism, 237. And in the corresponding article, 62, we don't even mention it. Tomorrow we're going to put on the local budgets the rebalancing -- and we're going to have a disaster, we're going to have a lot of debt in the local budgets. I believe that the government will answer the questions posed today. Only then can we determine whether to accept or not to accept the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u129	Thank you. They're going to perform instead of the miner. It's been announced that Poljczuk will be speaking. Then Tomic.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u130	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Social programs of all governments and all politicians are fundamental. Unfortunately, today’s budget, which is presented, does not look at this at all. Consider for yourself: Health expenses under the 2004 general fund amount to 8.5 billion dollars. Compared to last year, that's much more, that's 6.5 percent. But given the consumer price index that's going to go up, it's just going to go up by 1 percent. And relative to GDP growth, it's going to be 3.1 percent versus 3.2 percent this year. The next question is very important. The expected average salary for health workers next year, with a minimum wage of 237 dollars, will be about 390 dollars against today’s 308 dollars after the last 30 percent increase in May and July of this year. However, this is only going to be equal to 73 percent of the wages in industry. If a single tariff grid was introduced, the average wage in the field could be 530 dollars per month. However, the budget for the following year is not budgeted. It should also be noted that in view of the increase in the minimum wage in December of this year to 237 dollars, it is necessary to allocate 800 million more dollars by the end of this year. The amount to be recovered after the increase in office salaries is 30 percent. In addition, I would like to say that there are no programmes such as centralized health care and programs, such as comprehensive measures for family medicine, a program for the development of public health care for disasters, a program for the prevention and treatment of dental diseases. A state complex program of socio-medical care for veterans and disabled people, government measures for prevention and treatment of cardiovascular, vascular and brain diseases. The budget lacks 26 million to ensure the full need for insulins for diabetic patients. And in general, if you take and analyze what costs are allocated, I want to say that everything that's allocated is going to be 30 dollars per person. But given that we have 90 percent of the money going to the facility and pay, the patient in the new budget is going to have $3 per person. It's totally unacceptable. As a result, I want to say that the public health budget needs extraordinary work, and only then can it be heard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u131	Who's next? Ivan Tomic, right? Get ready, Niklaenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u132	Ivan Tomic, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear national MPs, members of the government! The agricultural sector is now experiencing one of the most complex stages of its development. Most agricultural enterprises are damaged. There has also been an increase in the rural backlog of life - sustaining factors — medical, household, trade, education, and culture. Solving highlighted problems. This year's lessons on regulating agricultural markets, food aimed at stabilizing the price situation, unfortunately, were not reflected in the 2004 draft budget. Unfortunately, the 2004 budget ideology remains old. Note this. Direct support for agricultural production in the draft budget is just 365 million dollars. What does that mean? 11 ounces per hectare of saltwater. Here's the specific answer: moving to the European Union and integration into the WTO, where there are several ways to support production elsewhere. A small amount of government support is not secure. the competitiveness of domestic agriculture. This is particularly true in the animal sector, for it is clear that restoring the sector in the near future will require much greater support. Moreover, the situation of indirect budget support at the expense of the added cost of agricultural production was not finally found. The proposals made by the government in the draft budget indicate the loss of such support in the amount of one and a half billion dollars for the industry. The laws adopted in Ukraine on pension insurance and fixed agricultural taxes have come into conflict and the requirements of both laws to compensate for the loss of the pension fund of more than 810 million dollars at the expense of the State budget are also not taken into account. Such actions are contrary to the requirements of other Ukrainian laws regarding the agricultural sector. In particular, on the priority development and promotion of the development of the sector, on grain and on the market for grain, and on a number of laws that have been passed only in the previous session of important bills: land protection, agriculture. The proposed version of the 2004 State Budget project can increase social tension both in the countryside and in society. So we suggest the following. First. Under any circumstances, save the existing amounts of State support from the active taxation of the agrarian sector. Never in this year can it be eliminated from the value added tax. The other one. At least 200 bracelets must be provided for the introduction of State support for agricultural risk insurance. Didn't he teach us this year? Third. We demand increased budget support for 400 million dollars in debt lending, including preterm 200 million. And the last one, the main one. The principle of intersectoral regulation of the domestic economy is also ignored. The price of this is almost 9 billion bracelets, without which agriculture will not get rid of the crisis and become competitive. So we think that this draft budget needs serious work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, I ask you to follow the rules. After three minutes, the microphone will be turned off. Stanislaw Nikolaynko, head of the Committee on Science and Education. Get ready for Mikhail Radion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, I keep thinking that those key jobs, the key jobs that we give away everything that we have most dearly, are the teacher who raises our children, the doctor to whom we give our health, the cultural workers who have to care for spirituality, we finance them by half of the minimum standard of living. And after a careful reading of this budget, the Science and Education Committee comes to that conclusion, although we have not yet concluded that this trend is continuing. What worries me most today is that from year to year we're talking about the liberalisation of the economy, the creation of favourable conditions for business. Now we've created, look. Today, Joseph of Winsky, my socialist colleague, said: $337 per person, almost three times as much in Russia, almost five times as much in Poland. So they're collecting taxes by how many times more. So it turns out that investments go whether there's taxes or not, we probably have something else here. I want to say that the first time we've analyzed the education budget, we've looked at it, it's not going to solve the chronic wage problem again. The teacher after the college will come, our children will be, our grandchildren will learn, 221 bracelets will receive, a living minimum of 360. Nothing is given by the government, nothing to say about the situation that has arisen with article 57. Debts are nearly 5 billion. The courts have completely arrested all the accounts of the district city education departments. There is no answer. The law on the solution of this problem will be passed immediately. We made a deal with Dusty that's what we should do. Information. Once again this year, a few steps have been taken. For the next year, we don't add 89 million, we don't add 25 million books, we don't have any capital costs. All the vocational and technical schools are open, there are technicalities, there are branches because we don't add to community services. Five times later, we get fines from the budget, and we charge private skyscrapers. Science. Now Vladimir Mikhailovich was present with me, more faithfully with him, what difference does it make when he met the Nobel Prize winner, George Alferov, Boris Evgenovich Patton. Discussed. Says Jores Alferov, which is a joint Ukrainian-Russian project on nanotechnology development. Eight million government decisions did not give a penny to Ukraine. It's embarrassing. And without nanotechnology, there will be no electronics. Maintaining the academy. Some 140 million were not added. The cost at the academy is very technical, especially for the workers. We don't get 65 million. We want to take even pensions today if the academic works and at the same time get pensions under the Science and Technology Act, and that's what we have to take away. Today, we tax all agricultural scientific research, budgetary research. You can't do that. The Science and Education Committee requires a fundamental review of all aspects of science and education.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u135	Yes, Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction. Get ready for Zubanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u136	Dear comrades, dear listeners, who are now listening to the microphone! First. Just so we're clear. I have the impression that this budget is a testimony to the bankruptcy of the entire policy of the Ukrainian Government. And bankruptcy is what it is. There have been many examples here, and I'm going to decipher them a little bit, just to be clear. First. Every time people expect something to get better every year. What better way is this budget for science or higher education? Now you know that a scientist, there's a professor, a professor, gets a pension of about 300-400 bracelets and wages, and he's got a salary of about 600. But this is not about what they say, and indeed at the age of higher education, the head of the department is the average age of 60. Not that they don't want to work like this day and night, although it's their calling, not that they just don't work. Once this law is passed, when it is impossible to work and receive a pension and a salary, these poor salaries, by the way, will be taught to someone. First question: What is the Government of Ukraine seeking? For that. So no one can be trained in higher education? We have received a wonderful education ourselves, and no one is supporting us there today, no one is supporting us. There are no young people there. Young people don't stay in science for 200 or 300 bracelets. They're going to a different place. But they do know that it's only time for scientists to become scientists. Second moment. Let's take, let's say, the same doctor. There's 300 bracelets in there for the doctor. He's given the fate of his people, his health, we can't find the opportunity for this man to have any money for it. Consider the following: scientific development, science. Comrades, we often adopt intellectual property laws here. I want to tell you, Ukraine is getting close to protecting something! Intellectual property has been created for many years, it will be created for no one. Therefore, it seems to me that Ukrainian citizens, all concerned by the fate of his people, that our government cannot ensure the development of science, education, health, we cannot afford to continue without destroying it. People have the right to be protected by all legal, constitutional means. And in no way should such a budget be allowed to be adopted!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u137	Yes, National Deputy Zubanov, faction of Ukraine. Please, Volodymyr Alexanderovich. Prepare Hennadia Josephic Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in my view, the budget, the project that we are considering, is balanced and is in line with the current economic situation of the country. The absolute advantage of the budget is that local budgets are allowed to use additional funds beyond the plan received after six months, not nine, as in the previous budget, and not 10 per cent, but 5th. That is, it will stimulate local budgets to find additional reserves. Of course, the so-called language approach has proven itself well in determining the budgets of cities, but there are nuances, because there are very many different parameters used and different nuances taken into account throughout the city, and ultimately the Ministry of Finance is applying the correction factor at its discretion, which in many ways undermines the objectivity of the language approach. Next, we see that the budget no longer provides for 225 million sums of capital investments in major districts. Part of this paragraph is replaced by so-called subsidies to prevent accidents in housing and utilities. And we see that the Government has gone, quite loudly provided us with the facilities that are envisaged. But we must say that we must pay special attention to social justice. There are whole majority districts where no funding is provided. And I doubt that any of the majors who will not see their districts in the draft budget will vote in favour of this budget. Further, I think that the Government needs to look at and further develop the practice of publicity provided for in this budget. The budget provides for the maintenance of state-wide roads of one billion 991 million grivens. I think it would be good for the Government to make the same application as in utilities, so that each MP can see how much funding is provided for the construction and repair of public roads in its district. This could be true of cities where coal mines are located. Let us assume that a billion million bracelets are available for the technical re-arrangement of coal enterprises, but not all deputies have access to today's numbers at the time of the discussion of the draft budget, so that we can see whether the cities and districts are represented by those deputies who are interested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u139	Gennady Josephovich Udovenko, faction of Our Ukraine. Prepare the Masterpiece.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u140	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished members of the government. First of all, I would like to point out the considerable work done by the government in preparing Ukraine's budget and point out, point out, that the State budget for the following year should finally be geared towards a substantial increase in living standards. The situation in the country has reached such an acute point during this time, and the poverty of the people has come to such a risk that further growth can lead to a social explosion, and people can no longer tolerate it. I support the position of the draft budget, which, I quote, "the primary priority of the budget and the financial provision of measures to address the most pressing social problems and raise the standard of living" remains the end of the quote. The Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations Committee has repeatedly raised questions about the introduction of a separate chapter in the National Budget of Ukraine on human rights. At this time, the majority of the population, because of poverty, cannot afford to defend their rights in the courts and prosecutors. Thus comes a huge stream of complaints from citizens to the address of the President, the Supreme Council, and the Cabinet of Ministers. The judicial branch of power was created primarily to protect a person, and the average citizen cannot pay even the basic costs of the court, I will not mention the legal services. The budget should be set aside to implement the European Court’s decisions to provide free legal aid. Understanding the complexity of this problem in view of the design of the budget on a sectoral basis and considering that such a section is not budgeted by the structure of the budget system, it does not correspond to the budgetary legislation of Ukraine, the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers to study the issue and prepare appropriate proposals for changes to the Budget Code and the Budget Resolution. I believe it is necessary to expand the list of protected articles by supplementing its articles on the provision of the necessary allocations to protect Ukrainian language, the resettlement and placement of deported Crimean Tatars and persons of other attributes who have been deported from Ukraine for the implementation of bilateral agreements on displaced persons. An analysis of appeals to the committee shows that in recent years the Institute of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine has gained weight from human rights. Therefore, in order to ensure that the core functions of the authorized institution are performed, some of our proposals for the state budget are directed towards creating a full structure of this institution in all regions of Ukraine. I join my colleagues in supporting and welcoming the sudden transition of Mikli Janović from Russian to Ukrainian. As former head of the translation service of the United Nations Secretariat, I would like to point out that it is important here to overcome the barrier of the transition from its native Russian language to a foreign language. [[Well, for him, Ukrainian is a foreign language.]] And what's interesting is that this transition coincided with a presentation by the American ambassador to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the newly appointed, who also read from the paper his first public address in Ukraine, which, by the way, had been prepared in the Ukrainian State Department for several months. These are our statesmen, Russian-speaking colleagues, to be trained by these foreign diplomats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u141	People's Deputy Masters, faction of Ukraine. Leukyanko, please prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u142	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction of "Regions of Ukraine", Žmerinski constituency. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, respected members of the government. Today we're looking at the draft Budget Act and we see that this bill is going to have a problem. Especially since you and I started tax reform and this tax reform today is said to be incomplete in general and we have a few letters of the alphabet, but it's not complete. I can only give one example of what is involved in the citizens' income tax. Today we have a 13 percent interest rate, a significant decrease and a big warning about the implementation of local budgets, but we said "a," but we didn't say what we were going to do with social spending. If we are protecting the worker himself today, we need to think more about the social contributions that today amount to more than 30 percent. That's the first problem. Another problem. But let's not forget that the fourth year is the election of the President of Ukraine. Accordingly, I would not want them to break us up in the budgetary process, especially with regard to the planned work of the Supreme Council. I would also like to point out that the government has set a fine example today regarding the timely submission of the Budget Law, and this is a great hope that we, as deputies, will fulfill our obligation to review this law in a timely manner and to meet our deadlines. But I would like to pay attention to some of the details of this draft of the Budget Act. First. I welcome the offer of the Cabinet of Ministers for the objective consideration of capital investments and for the Budget Act itself. But consider that there's a small tape of "The Stork," which has written 2 billion deposits without a completely incomprehensible scheme for the use of these funds. As a seniorist, I am constantly approached by voters and told that there is no way to even carry that grave, that is, the coffin. And today, I'd like to see in the budget vote that's real, which road is going to be built, and then it's going to be clear. Think, though, that costs are very, very high -- 2 billion dollars. And, instead, I would like to say, as the head of the State Debt Subcommittee, which today is the problem of government debt, there is already a national problem. Consider the fact that 24 percent of government budget expenditure today is directed toward debt. And I asked the government, it was in the budget resolution to take this into account as a government borrowing program, to make it clear that the government that he's going to borrow for the next five years is going to take into account that the 4th, 5th year is the peak of the debt burden. If we see how our GDP growth is accounted for today, or if we can withstand these public debt expenditures. In general, I support, welcome the submission, the timely submission by the government of the draft budget law and the hope that we, as members of the Supreme Council, will also be able to withstand our deadlines. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u143	Leukko Lukyanenko, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko Get ready for Michael Nightshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u144	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, for letting me speak. Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Uliy Timoshenko. You know, I'd like to address both the government members present, and our honourable deputies, and those present with such, let's say, words. When we look at what is happening in Ukraine, we see that for 12 years Ukraine is being destroyed and not being built. And in that time, when we look at the infrastructure of Ukraine, what happened to our roads, what happened to our bridges; when we look at industry, we see that the major capitals wear out and wear out, and very little fills up with new presses and so on. When we look at agriculture, we hear that 99 percent of the technology is out of date. We see the same thing: schools don't repair, we see that science is dying because tens of thousands of scientists are fleeing, more than 20,000 scientists have fled Ukraine. What is it? But this is a gradual approach to the technological catastrophe of Ukraine. Because in a few years, there will be a situation where the presses will just stop working. The new technology is not in place, the old one is completely out of order, and then what will Ukraine do? So I don't want to worry about numbers from the budget that everyone knows and many times have already been repeated here. I can see the ultimate way out of the situation that we have. We're all talking about the budget distribution, well, last year's size 69.1, now we see that it's going to be 75.6 billion dollars. But beyond this budget that we're talking about, which we want to share, there's still a big part of the economy that's in the shadows. We can see the size of that economy from the figures that Victor Yushchenko used earlier when he suggested that we take, let's say, 936 enterprises out of the shadows. During that time, the number of businesses operating in the shadows increased to over a thousand. So our shadow economy is estimated to have no less value than our State budget. So the problem is this is to get the shadow economy to the level of open financial calculations. And then the state will get even more money to be included in the budget. And our state budget is going to increase immediately by half. I asked him when we were listening to the faction of Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko, and I asked him if the government knew how to bring this shadow economy to the official level, so to speak, to the official level and to the level of open financial accounts. He says, we know this method, we know how to do it. So the question is, really, it's no secret, so the problem is not that we don't know how to do it, the problem is that the government doesn't want to do it. And so, speaking to both the MPs and the government, I would like them to think that Ukraine needs to be saved from the catastrophe that we're going to. And the rescue is getting the economy out of the shadows and then increasing our budget by half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u145	Mikola Noshchenko, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, "Trudova Ukraine", prepare Jaroslav Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u146	160 constituency, Matter. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The adoption for 2004 of a real, balanced and optimally structured state budget for social and economic development is the most important and important task of the Supreme Council. Because the previous budget, which has gone through a heated debate today, can be said to have had a positive effect. The 2 billion we added to the local budgets are remembered by all, including those who are listening to us today. Subsidies were increased for the construction of sociocultural objects, primarily the gasification of rural schools. All of this is said by that positive one. We are still fresh in the memory of every deputy that we today do not deal with day - to - day problems with the authorities, and above all with the treasury for funding. This reflects the balance of the budget. The general conclusion of the project is, I think we'll do it early. And it needs a thorough study, a thorough analysis. But a number of issues are causing concern and questions in our faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and Hard Ukraine. Most important. I'm already on the 19th, so it's happening again. But questions are topical and important. First of all, this is the non-remuneration in the budget for wage payments, which we've approved in total amount of 237 I'm stressing. The other one. Each year, when considering the draft budget, Parliament is involved in the consideration of articles that are unpopular with voters and that severely restrict their social guarantees. For example, article 84 provides for the payment of pensions to individual categories of citizens under five laws, only non - pensioners. This is true of those who receive a pension of 150 and who are 10 times higher. Keep going, keep going, keep going, keep The same article envisions a special benefit payment to Ukraine of only 50 percent of the assigned amount. We remember making changes to the law in this room and unlocking the 60th line of pensioners who were behind the appointment of a special merit pension. Now they're going to pay 50 percent. Then let's give other rewards to them, in a day, for example, it's going to be exactly 50 percent. The faction is concerned about the lack of a relationship between individual macroeconomic indicators that directly and substantially affect the well - being of people. In general, this budget can be called a social one with a lot of tension. At the start of the budget salary, 237, the minimum cost of living is 85 dollars. For comparison: two years ago, the minimum wage was 110 and the level of security was 80. Where is this ratio? Where's the ratio? Since January 1st, another nuance, and everything else, with the introduction of this law -- the Pension Insurance Act -- the social pension will be replaced by social assistance. And it's only 85 below the existing social pension. How Can You Live a Lonely Man? We know that according to the law, a single unemployed person has the right even to stay at a state station. And there the state provides 400 dollars a month in the budget. In order to save time on the budget in Parliament's walls, the faction proposes to adopt the proposed draft of the 2004 State Budget and to focus on the quality of this important document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u147	Yes, Jaroslav Suhi, please. Yeah, and we need to be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u148	Dear National Deputies! The Faction SDPU(o) believes that, to some extent, the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2004 is aimed at addressing social policy problems and has signs of improving the quality of social policy in Ukraine. Although, at the same time, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has not yet taken serious steps to resolve painful social issues or, if they are done, extremely slowly. In particular, with regard to the substantial increase in minimum wage, the introduction of a specific schedule for its step-by-step increase with a view to approaching the subsistence minimum, the increase in small amounts of social assistance to low-income populations. There is no fundamental solution to the problem of the return of valuable savings. The other one. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine had submitted only a draft law on the size of the living minimum for 2004 and the size, for example, of the minimum pension at the age of one, remained undetermined. The same is true of article 27, paragraph 3, of the Code of Budgets. Third. The government paid the minimum wage. I want to deny to those colleagues who said we didn't have the size. No, the government has paid a minimum wage of 237 dollars, but setting a minimum wage of 237 dollars for 2004 will reduce this social security compared to living minimum wage for a working person from 66 percent to 62 percent. Fourthly, we strongly deny the cancellation of benefits, compensations and guarantees of citizens, including on a professional basis. It's proposed, and it's not allowed, and it's suggested to stop a number of norms, including land-based benefits for businesses, institutions, organizations that have structural units that provide sanatorium and health benefits for children. Dear colleagues, these institutions today are or are not the only ones in Ukraine that allow our children to be fully healed. Fifth, it is proposed that a minimum of 50 percent of the subsistence allowance should be set in accordance with the laws on State social assistance for low-income families and state aid for families with children, but the minimum subsistence allowance for those two laws is set at 85 dollars per person. The analysis shows that there will be no approximation of the selected index to the minimum of living. And one more thing, and it's extremely important about how much care a child takes before he reaches three years: from 40 to 42 bracelets, it's not a solution. Therefore, it is suggested that we set the only approach for it. the size of child care assistance up to the age of three. An insured and uninsured person not less than 85 dollars. The faction of the SDPI(o) regarding the adoption or rejection of the draft law will be defined in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u149	So, Supruna Ludmila Pavlovna, will you be speaking? From the place or from the place? Please. Prepare Klimpush. Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u150	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I understand that more of my speech will be addressed to the transcript, but I want to express my position on the faction of the People's Democratic Party. It's the next one. We would not like to pay attention to economic indicators today, for there are many observations to them today both from our faction and from other MPs and factions. I'd like to draw your attention to the following. The NDP faction will support the adoption of the budget for consideration, because any deviation will mean only one thing: delaying the time to make a decision. And we have very few in the budget code today. So we're going to support the Supreme Council's position on the first-reading budget, and we're going to be preparing our proposals that will primarily relate to income-generating. In addition, we will insist on the implementation of the budgetary resolution, which determines the priority of education, health, culture, science, housing and utilities. We can't agree that an increase, a direct increase in nominal expenditure by 10 percent means priority, because this increase in these sectors is only related to one factor: the increase in the minimum wage that is planned for the next year, not less than 237 dollars. So priority in ensuring minimum wage levels is not the priority that we meant when we adopted the Budget Resolution. We think we should finance financial and material security, both medicine and education, and housing and utilities. And this is the principle position of our faction. We will also make our proposals on inter-budget transfers, because the situation that consists of the formation of an income and expenditure portion of local budgets is unsatisfactory today. We will also offer new mechanisms to support the domestic producer, export support, pre-export support. And we think that the government is definitely in agreement with him. And for us, it's also a priority that we have to spend on sustaining the environment and the healthy lifestyle of people, because you know that our quota in the Cabinet of Ministers is precisely about these directions. So we think this is going to be our priority. All other proposals will be presented by the faction in writing, but it agrees with the need to accept the budget for consideration in today’s situation. And we will support this proposal. We hope that the joint work of the faction in Parliament, the faction of the NDP and the government will produce positive results, first of all, for the Ukrainian people and for the economy of Ukraine as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u151	Orest Klimpush, National Authority MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u152	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished members of the government, distinguished national deputies. In my presentation, I will not discuss in detail the specific figures and articles of expenditure, although this is an extremely important aspect of my own budget and will be discussed at the next stage. Today, I would like to stop by following the general principles of the formulation of the main financial document. As far as such principles are concerned, the People's People's Group believes that the government budget should first and foremost reflect priority for areas such as social, health, education. And this is what we stressed during last year's budget process and during the preparation of the main directions of budgetary policy for 2004. Noting the positive developments and social orientation of the project, the National Authority's MP group expresses its deep concern at the fact that the extent of assistance to the poorest population categories, low-income families, families with children, disabled children and children with disabilities, as well as the one-time support for the birth of a child, has for many years been virtually unrelated to the real subsistence minimum, and therefore obviously does not meet its purpose. Such a law had been initiated to increase child support. The project is also proposed to suspend or not implement the rules of many laws adopted by Parliament at all. And separately, the traditional suspension of standards for the material security of education workers, health care, is proposed to postpone the introduction of the Customs Code for another year. There is no 100 percent funding for automobiles, according to laws adopted by our own. Moreover, a tax return on added child - care, drug sales, health care, and so forth has been declared. Surprisingly, the lack of response to emergency needs, such as an accident at the Solotvinian Mine, where there are unique two hospitals, threatens to destroy them today. And despite specific appeals to the government, no funding is available. Our group will insist on a careful review of the relevant project standards. We're also talking about the fact that only the above evidence shows that this financial document needs to be carefully developed and taken into account the mistakes of previous years, that it should be resolved, at last, by the urgent social problems and ensure the innovative nature of economic development. We're in favour of taking this into consideration, but with possible changes and urgent needs taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u153	Thank you, too. George Manchulenko, please. And then the head of the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u154	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Dear government! I'd like to focus on a few problems that came into my eye during the presentation of the budget for the following year. First. These are subsidies for investment projects or, as we're used to talking more, drips. I didn't hear any figures, and we have good practice from this year's budget, when we put 226 million dollars on the average, 1 million dollars in one constituency, and it's these costs, even though at the moment only 50 percent have come in, just some small amount of money that allows the gasification of the population point to be completed or the school to be built in a rural area. Therefore, this problem needs to be corrected. I think the number of subsidies for investment projects should be increased on the spot. Because once again, I repeat, these are real funds that can be kicked out of the budget, and they help a real person today in places. Next problem. This is a problem of financing the educational sector, medicine, culture. To me, they are as high a priority as they are to the faction of "Our Ukraine." In particular, it was said that funding was increased by 10 percent in education. But if you actually analyze these numbers, let’s say computerization of schools. There are as many as 8 million dollars. If we say that we are living in a period of globalization and that we need effective training for young, scientific people, it is impossible to do so without a computer today. That's why 8 million dollars within Ukraine is just, like, ridiculous. The same is true of health, culture. As Secretary of the Committee on Safety and Defence, I would like to focus on the following. We want to reform, say, the strong sector into European standards. If we want to move this way, we need to understand that the budgets of the power structures have to be as transparent as possible. I pay particular attention to the Ministry of Defense. It would be very useful if the budget committee supported the overall balance of defence for the type of armed forces to write the sum in separate lines. Including raising funding for today's U.S. Navy, because today they're in a rather pitiful state compared to the financing of the Russian Black Sea fleet. If we really want to reform the power structures to European standards, we need to be as transparent as possible. the budgets of the Force Department. So this is going to be confirmation of words by real concrete steps. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u155	I ask the head of the Committee on Budgets to make a general statement and we will conclude. Is there a need for the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u156	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear government officials! Dear representatives of the regions! Unfortunately, there are not many deputies left, but I would like to thank everyone for an extremely professional, lively discussion; for the wishes expressed during the discussion on the presentation of the draft budget. I am very pleased that the position that was expressed by the Budget Committee regarding the adoption of the draft budget prepared by the Government for consideration has received actual support. No decision has been made to reject the government's draft budget. And so, as a result of today's discussion, we think that we can start work today on the government's budget project. I assure you, these two weeks, we will be working in extremely tense mode. In two days now, more than 200 appeals were made by national deputies, entities of the legislative initiative. And that's just the beginning, because now it's working on committees, factions. In order to consider the draft budget in the committee of the heads of the subcommittees, my deputies will be involved in the work of the Supreme Council's Preparatory Committees. We have a proper arrangement for cooperation with the government, with the Ministry of Finance. We really hope that we will succeed in the budget code provided by the Constitution to propose to the Supreme Council a draft budget for adoption in the first reading that would have a chance of receiving the support of the Supreme Council. Once again, I would like to thank those who spoke, those who sent their comments to the Budget Committee for their active position. And I'm sure. That together we are able to significantly improve the budget project that the government has given us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u157	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. Feder Jaroshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u158	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the distinguished ones are present. Members present from the region. In fact, today there was a lively discussion of the 2004 draft budget. And the Ministry of Finance, the government was trying to make the 2004 budget project favourable and satisfying all the needs that had to be taken into account for Ukrainian citizens. But unfortunately, in the process of discussion, really, you have once again seen that the efforts and efforts that have been made have not fully achieved the goal. And the time that we have, we will continue to be with Peter Alexiyovich, with the Committee on Budgets, with all the deputies to work so that at first reading everything really is done so that the budget is accepted with the accounting that will be expressed to you. And I also want to thank all the people's deputies sincerely, because we worked together, faction leaders, because there have been many calculations, various meetings and from the point of view of optimizing specific programs, and from the point of view of direction, and from the point of view of legislative initiatives. There's a lot to talk about. But the fact is, you've all accepted virtually unanimous support for the budget. So the Ministry of Finance and the government have great inspiration that our further work will be even more active. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-17-m0.u159	Dear National Deputies! We are finalizing the issue of the submission of the Ukrainian National Budget 2004 draft Act. I would ask the heads of the parliamentary groups and factions first of all, the Committee on Budgets, other committees to preserve this inspiration so that no later than October 20, you can consider the bill on the State Budget for adoption in the first reading. I thank everyone for their participation in the work. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll start work at 10 o'clock. Tomorrow is the day of the vote, the day of the decision-making by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Good-bye.
