ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u1	People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:34]] Registered -394 There are 394 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We continue our work according to schedule. Now we're going to go over the bills with a reduced procedure, as we're marked here. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on local police is being announced for consideration. Reporter: First Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Interior Mikhailo Vasilovich Kornienko Please, Mikhail Vasilovich. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. For your consideration, it is proposed to amend some Ukrainian legislation on local police. First of all, it should be noted that the Ukrainian Act on the General Structure and Number of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine, adopted on 10 January 2002, already provides for the functioning of local militia units. The bill proposes to amend and supplement Ukraine’s Budget Code, Ukraine’s militia laws, Ukraine’s local self - government in Ukraine, and Ukraine’s local government. This will enable the identification of a specific mechanism for the formation and functioning of local militia units. This project takes into account the proposals and observations made by local governments, supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's professional committees on law enforcement and the fight against organized crime and corruption. Today it is time to establish a legislative mechanism for the formation and functioning of the local police. World experience, in particular in Poland, Russia, Slovakia, and the Baltic countries, shows an effective combination of the interests of the territorial communities and law enforcement agencies in ensuring the rights and freedoms of citizens in the territory concerned. To resolve the issue of maintaining local police at the expense of the local budget, the corresponding additions are made to chapter 14 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, "Distinguishment of expenditure between budgets". Failure to accept the proposed changes to the Budget Code can again create problems in the coming year for more than 30,000 police personnel working directly with the population. And these are mostly district police inspectors, police and traffic control. By this year, local budgets had been kept. Structurally, the local police are proposing to establish regional, city and district councils in the structure of the Internal Affairs Offices on the basis of: the first, the road patrol unit; the second, the patrol and post office; the third, the main service, the departmental police inspectors, as well as receivers and distributors for minors; receivers, distributors for persons detained for embezzlement and special receivers for persons under administrative arrest. So I would like to stress once again that the bill does not foresee the creation of new armed formations, but merely the reorganization of existing units and the local police within the Internal Affairs Authority, I emphasize that. The local police will be headed by the deputy head of the Internal Affairs Office, who is obliged to report on the state of public order and public security as required by the relevant council. The same local councils are given additional powers regarding the impact on the restructuring of public order, public security, the rule of law, and the proper restructuring of the local police. The maintenance of local police units will be carried out at the expense of the funds remaining at the disposal of local budgets, resulting from their financial capacity. That is, in the case of the adoption of this law, local budgets for 2004 and the following years may be able to plan expenditure that is included in the allocation of inter-budgetary transfers, as well as expenditure on the income of local budgets, which is not included in the determination of the amount of inter-budget transfers, which will be the real basis for creating a local police in each region. Respectable national MPs, the adoption of the project will help expand the powers of local self-government authorities to ensure the rule of law, to protect the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of citizens, and to increase police cooperation with the population. Once again, I would like to emphasize that this militia is formed within an existing militia and is subject to the militia law. In addition, after the adoption of this law, the Cabinet of Ministers will also adopt a position on the local police, which will provide for all organizational questions about the existence of this militia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u3	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. As an exception, let's now ask a question. Please sign up for five minutes. On the board, please. Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u4	Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. That's my question. And now people are saying, the more the police, the more crime and the higher the level of corruption and so on. As you think, with how corrupt our local self-government is, at the same time. how hard it is to fight the public for these manifestations of violations of the law on their part, we are also strengthening them with our militia to fight against those who will protest these violations.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u5	I don't think so, because the whole militia, it's under control -- and there's the police that exists, and there's the police that we're proposing to create. It will exist in the structure of the militia that already exists, the units that already exist. And these are the units, I'm stressing once again, that are closest to the population -- the district patrol and the police patrol. We have internal security units that demonstrate the corruption of police personnel, abuses that deal with attitudes toward the service responsibilities of our employees. And the operation of these units will certainly spread to this militia, which will be approximately 30,000 people. Both the prosecution and the courts and other law enforcement structures will influence this militia. It's not going to be something separate. By the way, you know, we've already reported to you about Operation Clean Hands, which was conducted when the facts of excess authority were revealed, the abuse of official authority by individual members of our militia. About 300 police personnel were released as a result of this operation and it is not a company. This work is carried out continuously, and we will do it from the minister and end up with the heads of the respective departments, including the militia that is being created.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u6	Alexander Colonyari, faction of Ukraine. In the microphone, please don't hear anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u7	Please give the floor to Komaru Mikola Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u8	National Deputy Komar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u9	Dear Mikhailo Vasilovich! I know this law was prepared early and very quality, but there's one problem I'd like to get an answer for today because working practically with the police in three areas, I had to, then. the issue of financing. How well is it now working with the minfin according to the comments made in the drafting of this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u10	Thank you, Mikola Stepanovich. It's a question that's been dealt with with by the minth. Minfin called for our bill and the changes that are being made to the budget code, they are certainly being processed by the Minfin specialists. It's all agreed, and all the funds that are needed, they're going to be channelled from the local budgets, and more than that, if they don't have enough, the projected system of transfers from the state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u11	Taras Cranville, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u12	I have two short questions. First. Why even call the local self-government police if it's really the same police that basically confirmed in his speech. Some of the small harmonys that come from the local government do not seem to allow me to change it to that level. Wouldn't it be better to adopt Bondarenko-Bespalog's law, which was proposed before, and in the past, and in this, which really creates the responsibility of the local police to the authorities of local self-government. That's the first one. And the second. You're in the bill with a moment that doesn't fall under transfers that don't include transfers. How, then, will they be covered? Now in the answer to the question, you're saying that we're going to have to -- we're going to find transfers. I don't see it in the law. This will have to be done to find out what the cost of local self - government is.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u13	Thank you. As far as the name is concerned, it is also in the law on the militia, which the law on the militia provided for the establishment of local militia units in 1991. They were actually there, except that the legislation wasn't drafted. In order for this police to really exist so that it can serve the territorial communities, and it's given that name. The other one. With regard to transfers, these issues can also be settled in the laws on State budgets for the relevant years. And the changes to the budget code provide for the funding of this militia, actually at the expense of the local budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u14	Igor Šurma, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u15	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I believe that with the adoption of this bill there will be agreement on the provisions of Ukraine's laws on local self-government in Ukraine and on the police. And Ukrainian citizens are entitled by local authorities to influence the work of local police, which will undoubtedly have a positive impact on the results of their activities. However, the project does not determine whether all benefits provided by Ukraine’s legislation to employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs are being extended to local police. If so, how will social assistance be provided to local police workers to pay their pension. If not, why would a person in the Ministry of Internal Affairs be doing the same work with them but have different legal status? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u16	Thank you. This law provides that these militia officers are fully subject to the provisions of the Police Act. Including the status of the service and the position on pension insurance. So they're completely subject to the Police Act. And so they have all the benefits that are and are distributed to militia personnel both in social terms and in pension insurance, and in material security they're going to be exactly the same as for other militia personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u17	Valery Mishur, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u18	Valérie Mishur, Communist faction. I'd like to ask you a question about funding. We really don't have the justice of certain and different budgetary possibilities that you've been talking about. So we're going to have this local police in one region, and there's not going to be any local police in the other region. And won't this militia become an armed force that will be subordinated to the head of the administration who will use them as he pleases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u19	Thank you. It's not going to be an armed force, because it's going to be subordinated to the IMF in front of everything and it's going to be part of the internal affairs system. So the IMF just won't let her become that. Everything else will be distributed to them, I've already said, the Police Act and the other rights and powers that apply to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u20	Maria Marcus, please. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u21	Dear Michael Vasilovich! You know that the bill on the formation of the local police has been passed through the Supreme Council. The last of them was 285, 1279 last year and was not voted in favour of by the Supreme Council on March 16, 2003. I have a question for you. Are the changes and additions provided by the bill taking into account the features of the local self - government structure? First. The bill envisions the establishment of a local police force by decision of local self - government authorities on the basis of the submission of local governments and councils. Yet, there are no performances in the district and district councils. And will the local police be formed in separate local communities, villages, villages, and cities, and in the territory of each district, there will be several local militias. That's the first one. The other one. How will the competence of these militias be distinguished, and how will the amendments be made with the adoption of this bill to the Criminal Procedure Code, to the Administrative Code, to the Procurator's Laws, as well as to the Law on Administrative Supervision of Persons Released from Places of Will and Others?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u22	Thank you. With regard to the laws that I said about local self - government, about local government administrations, all these questions are foreshadowed. Local police don't create in villages, they don't create in villages, they start to form from the area, and then they start to build cities and district centers. Villages and village councils, for the sake of the countryside, can only come up with proposals for the creation of this militia. As for all other matters, they are foreshadowed by these changes to the law. What's more, when we were working on the law that you mentioned, we took into account all the comments that were made, and they were considered and taken into account in this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u23	Thank you, sit down, please. Time's up. Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich has the floor to report to the committee head on law enforcement. Please, Vladimir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! As you can see from the questions that are heard in this room, the view of this bill is ambiguous both by the faction representing the majority and the minority. Still, you know that a project with a similar subject of regulation in the session hall did not come into existence for the first time. On January 10, last year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed a law on the overall structure and size of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, article 1 of which stipulates that local police units operate in the overall structure of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. In the same year, our fellow Ukrainian national deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich submitted a draft law on municipal police. On November 28, 2002, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a draft law that is almost identical to today’s, but on January 16, the second reading, it did not select a 10-20 vote. In the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is another bill on our committee, which is sponsored by national deputies Vladimir Bondarenko, Vladimir Stretovic and others. So the question of the relevance and necessity of creating a local police force not only violates the Ministry of Internal Affairs, not only the Cabinet of Ministers, but, as you can see, the national deputies of Ukraine. So the question is almost definitely the local police in Ukraine are needed. The other question is what the law on militia should be. Our committee supported a bill that is under consideration today and suggests that it be accepted as a basis for the first reading. First of all, we came from the fact that experimentally and not only local police in Ukraine already exist. Today’s bill is designed to take into account the comments made by the national deputies on November 28, 2002 and January 16, 2002. And I've drawn the attention of the MPs to the fact that most of the observations and fears are caused by two moments in this bill. On whose behalf will the local police be financed or not on local budgets that do not have the funds to pay the salaries of doctors, teachers, and so forth? And whose police it will be: the state-communal or, again, the state-run police, which will be further financed by the local budgets and budgets. In his report, Mikhailo Vasilovich answered these questions. And I believe that 30,000, with only the police, who will move to the local police, will be financed at the expense of the local budgets when we accept the corresponding changes proposed to the Ukrainian Budget Code. With regard to the alternative bill of Stretovic, Bondarenko, and other deputies, the authors did not appear twice at our committee meeting, so there is no conclusion on this project. And the conclusion of the Committee on Organ Crime, whose head is one of the authors of an alternative bill, is rejected on the same committee. So today, I think there's a lot of reason, Mr. President, to make, to take as a basis in the first reading, and all the questions that you're asking in your questions, in your speeches, can be dealt with in the preparation of the bill for the second reading in the session room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u25	And thank you, sit down, please. We've already made an exception. If you have one, please. Anatoly Frost. One minute, one question. Volodymyr Romanovich, one question from Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u26	83 constituency, Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a distinguished co-reporter, we do not understand that the issue of local police is not at all in time today. I'll tell you, I've been meeting with the heads of law enforcement in my district, with the heads of the district councils. They don't want to, and they say you can't do that. We don't know that there's no local budgets today, they're naked and bossy, do we? We don't understand that in the end we're actually creating, as they say, we're already legally anchoring the local mafia, which then will be simple, mortal nothing there, believe me, I can now bring in dozens of cases where and unfortunately, the law enforcement agencies can't do anything because it's grown to this. And that makes the situation worse. Then let's make a law on private investigators, private police, etc. So any competition is going to be, and that's what. You're in the same police force as you are in the local budget. That's absurd. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u27	My dear colleague, as well as you, I'm meeting with the heads of local self-government and I'll say that the points on this point are different than the ones you're making. I will also say that for the local police, the head of the Council of Ministers of Crimea Kunicin, heads of a number of district government administrations, heads of district councils, etc. But I'm still saying, so that you don't get any worse about it, we can agree on all the issues of the bill on the second reading, there's nothing to worry about. This is where, in the law on local self-government, we predicted that there was a local police. Well, we'll look for the money.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u28	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. On the board, please give us the names of the national deputies. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. The next one will be the national deputy of Krutz.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u29	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! As the reporter has already told you, the honourable chairman of the committee of Moses, we have proposed this bill, similar to, well, not this one, we have proposed a basic serious bill on the militia of local self-government, which came out of experience and abroad, and taking into account the experience that has already been taken into account in Ukraine. Unfortunately, this project was submitted to us two more years ago -- June 19th, by me, Yuri Carmazin, and by the national deputy Volodymyr Bondarenko, including MPs Melnik, Zadrodny, Philipchuk, Matvienko, Chubatenko and Gusak. But this bill never reached its turn, and it wasn't accepted. What is being proposed today is just a fraction of that document, essentially the case. But the question is today, and I've seen whether or not to accept it, and the national MPs today don't know if it's going to be better or worse. First. I would like to make my claims to the text of the bill. It is far from legal, normal legal technology, no matter how sad it is that it was developed in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and in the Cabinet, especially not necessarily to be created there, but is allowed to be created, it needs to be written down — the local authorities of the militia. Next. I think it would be right to call it the local self-government militia, as we wrote in the law. Next. I think we should take into account the characteristics of the local self-government structure, because the executive committees in the district and district councils are long gone. Next. I believe that the police of local self-government should be focused on performing such functions as prevention, public order, public security and property. But we still need to make other legislation seriously to bring it up. Is society ready today or not ready? There are a few questions here, a few points of view. Some city mayors say that we need a police force that is responsible from us, responsible to the local community. Because this militia doesn't want to answer, they don't want to report, they're just asking for money, and it's somehow affecting business leaders. So in view of this, I think that the first reading could be supported, but then it's essentially, very important to work out this bill, because it's completely null and void from the point of view of legal engineering. Mikhail Vasilovich, I don't know who wrote it, but there I'm asking you to rework it and make an offer later. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u30	Nicholas Crutz. The faction of our Ukraine. I mean, one for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u31	Ivano-Franksky. The faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues! The issue that we are currently considering is not a narrow question of law enforcement, it concerns a wide range of important social issues in the development of local self-government, the security of our fellow countrymen, the security of our public order in the settlements, the effectiveness of the exercise of state authority in this area. As far as I'm concerned, the problem has long been the question of whether there should be such a police force in Ukraine. Clearly, such a police force in our Ukraine should have been, more precisely, long ago. The creation of a local police force is preferable to all, the state, the militias, the local authorities, and the population. Ironically, today the authorities of local self-government and their officials are the same city heads deprived of real means of influence in front of the city, such as in a district center where there are dozens of colonels, lieutenant colonels, majors. And the city’s head has no one to ask about these issues that relate to the authority of the city’s self - government. Because of the vulgar inscriptions of painted walls that struck street lamps, he broke benches in a city park, and why bullies feel calm in public places, and so forth. The main problem is the clear legislative determination of the order of the local police, its organizational structure, the system of subordination of tasks and functions, the rights and duties of local police. Whether the proposed bill clearly and unequivocally resolves these questions. Not really. Yes, the bill does not provide a clear answer as to which local authorities can form local police units. In particular, whether district councils and district councils can do so. The project also does not clearly define the tasks, rights, and duties of local police officers other than the tasks, rights, and duties of government police officers. The issue of the division of competence between the local militias of various territorial communities, villages, cities, and districts is also unresolved. The project concludes that local authorities are obliged to form local police units. What, though, if the local budget does not have the necessary funds? There are also many important questions that have not been resolved in the project, or the solution is not clear. But in general, the project can be used as a basis for improving its position toward second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u32	We've got two pros. Please, Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u33	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, let's really think about what any structure actually does. In fact, she does what the authorities ask her to do, that is, her authority. For what does the higher government of the Ministry of State ask? These are resonant crimes, let's say, yes, the protection of the power itself, so that there's no more rallying opposition. And of course, that's why the post office, the district police, that's all out of the question objectively. And that's why the necessity, and in that we all fit into creating militias at local militia sites and no one denies it. What is the problem, then, and what is the difference between positions? To create this militia as part of the IMF, as proposed by this bill. Or create it in organs and under local self - government, or local councils. As proposed by Bondarenkom, Karmazin and others, which for some strange reason does not fit into the session hall at all, although it was introduced earlier, and this bill, which is completely unchanged once and for all, is lobbying in the Supreme Council. It's kind of logical. What else are the fundamental differences between them? What's written here and this is the key position. The local police are held at the expense of local budgets, proposed by the drafters, and this is a key position. They pay local budgets, or budgets, that are formed by local councils and are subordinated to them. It is subordinated to the internal affairs authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I mean, they pay each other, they command others. What is the role of councils in listening to the reports of their superiors, or hearings, and everything is still going on. And this is, in my opinion, an organic flaw in this bill, which can't be corrected in either second or third or 27th reading. That is to say, we need to determine in principle that the State budget is financed by the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the State, from the local level only by the police, who are subordinated to local self-government. I realize there are problems in the way of creating a local self-government militia, but if there is good will, all of this is actually solved. But without a solution to this principled choice, we cannot move on the matter. And so, unfortunately, I can't support this bill even in the first reading. And I'm addressing you with the same offer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u34	Bandurka Alexander Markovich. We already have two-for-one-against. We need another one. So it takes another one to make it two-for-two-again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u35	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The reply that we all opposed was wrong or joking. We don't mind. We are here to strengthen the role and significance of local self - government. First of all, in ensuring human rights and freedoms, citizens proclaimed by the Constitution. What institutions of our authority, including, of course, local authorities, are the most widely accepted? The Rural, Village Council, District Council, eventually 37 per cent of Ukraine's 26 million citizens who, according to statistics, visited judicial cities in 2002. That is, the need to strengthen the role of local authorities in the protection and protection of human rights is certainly there. Because of this prism, we need to look at the need for the adoption of the Law on the Militia of Local Self - Rule. I don't care what the municipal police call it. We don't have municipalities, we have local self-government, we have local councils. Of course, this law must be adopted. We put him in, we forced him out. I have been in Parliament since 1990, and since the adoption of the Law on Local Self-Government in 1992 we have been talking about this. In fact, there are no contradictions that could not be overcome in the second reading. There were, indeed, four bills. Our committee has considered all the bills, including the honourable Vladimir Mikolaiovich Stretovic. By the way, the Committee on Combating Organized Crime itself rejected the bill and supported the one who reported here today to Michael Korneyenko and the honourable chairman of the committee, Mr. Moses. Deputies! I ask you on Thursday to support this bill in the first reading so that we can move forward and take into account your proposals, including those critical ones that certainly sounded and had the right to exist. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u36	Yeah, now, we've got Bartock's non-fractional pro. Do you have any Bartocks? For, for, for, for, for, for, Dear colleagues! Calm down, please. Well, we're on the list. Calm down, please. Yes, Andrew School. None. Taras Cranville. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u37	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! It's very short on the substance of this bill. It provides two moments. First. There's absolutely nothing to change about the police. And the other one. It's a fundamental change in funding. Those functions that are set here. Why was I just asking if that name was appropriate? Because, so-called, otherwise I'll say, the local self-governance police are absolutely in line with today's state police and there are no other functions there. The dependence of this militia is virtually complete from the entire vertical force structure that is today, the Ministry of Internal Affairs. What will be reported from time to time will be reported to the local authorities by the head of this so - called local self - government militia virtually does not change the nature of the matter. They're reporting to the district councils right now. What does that change? These. That the norm there is, according to the agreement, it also virtually doesn't have any influence. However, funding falls on local self - government bodies, whose budgets are already being cut. I do not believe that this law can be adopted under any circumstances. In fact, we translate the funding functions into those who are still underfunded and leave behind a whole system that needs to be fundamentally changed. We need to identify not the items that are assigned here to the local self-government militia by this law, but clearly those that can be fully committed to local self-government. But no more. Only that you can trust the local community. And leave those functions entirely behind. On one occasion, the same United States uses sheriffs who resist and control the local community. Most European states are used by their municipal authorities. Why can’t we finally adopt such a law? What's more, he's really introduced and he's totally normal, he could be worked out. This law, as for me, cannot be corrected for one reason before the second reading -- according to the Rules, first reading sets the basic political essence of the law, if we adopt it, we will not be able to change it by 180 percent, which is necessary for its normal functioning and the functioning of local self-government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u38	What? Are you filming? The discussion is over. From the place is Maria Marcus. Out of the way, please. I thank you very much, but they insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u39	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Before you press the "for" button, please consider whether this should be done. I objected to the adoption of this bill at a committee meeting on such grounds. It violates the structural integrity and subordination of internal affairs units, and some of them will be placed in double subordination by horizontal and vertical, as we say. We've had this before, and that's what we've gone away from when we've determined the wrongness of this condition. It'll be the police under the heads of the local government. It is proposed that the local police be formed by decision of the local authorities on the basis of the joint submission of local governments and executive councils. The number of them, the reorganization, the liquidation will be determined by the authorities of local self - government. However, there are no such executive bodies in the paradises and shells. It is dedicated to these authorities and to the personnel of the local police, the heads of structural units, the introduction or reduction of staff positions, the appointment and dismissal of district police inspectors. In addition, we know that the budgets of local governments are not ready for this. There will be expenses for clothing, shoes, material and technical bases, weapons, technology and services in connection with water supply of electricity, etc. Are local budgets that today are virtually unable to properly pay the workers in the field of health care and teaching even to keep such a burden on them?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u40	Thank you. Leukyanko, please, from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u41	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the Julia Timoshenko faction. Dear colleagues, I think we all understand two things. The problem of centralizing our state and entire system, structure and second, the problem of financing. I'd like to emphasize first. This bill has been in the Supreme Council for a long time, "must have," as one MP said. And it has to be because we can't give up centralistic thinking. The creation of local police, self-government agencies, is precisely the step towards decentralization that Ukraine must take in the interests of democratization, and so on, greater confidence in local authorities. I think that in the future and the budget we're going to have is going to be redesigned, and the basis of funding is going to be the bottom line, that is, the authorities of local self-government. And that's why creating a local police force is our next step. So that's what we have to do. Because the draft provides for the subordination of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, this bill cannot be voted on. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u42	Thank you. For what reason? Time's up, you can't do that. I'm asking you to calm down, but you're doing a lot of talking. The bill has been completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. What's surprising is that I can't understand? That you will speak three times from each bill, allow others to speak and do not be surprised, please. Dear colleagues, we were to consider a draft law amending some of the legislative acts concerning the declaration of property and income by natural persons. The government requests that this issue be postponed to the next plenary week. We agreed to this at the conciliatory council. A draft law amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the termination of the judge's powers]] Reporter Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich Is there a Carmazin? Please. The narrator is Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u43	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I want to tell you that Musiak is now at the committee meeting, our committee is now looking at the judges, and I'm going to make a statement here. Is there? I'm sorry. I wanted his point of view, then. Dear National Deputies! The need to amend article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges is due to the need to implement the constitutional position that a judge elected by the Ukrainian National Deputy has the right to return to the previous city of work after the completion or termination of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy. The Constitution of Ukraine, the Law on the Status of Judges and the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine prohibit the compatibility of these two posts. Hence, from the time of the formation of the oath of the Ukrainian national deputy to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the judge is obliged to submit his duties. Ukraine’s legislation guarantees all persons elected by the national deputies of Ukraine the right to return to the previous post that they held before the election, after the completion or termination of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy. Such a guarantee applies to a professional judge. At the same time, there is a specific nature of the appointment of a professional judge to the post provided for by the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges, on the Court of Justice of Ukraine and others, you know it well, this particularity, the distinguished people's deputies, because every Thursday you approve here, you choose judges on an uninterrupted basis. According to these legislative acts, a judge elected by the Ukrainian National Deputy, as well as a person who only claims to be a judge, is required to return to the post of professional judge after the completion or termination of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy, to obtain the consent of the head of the relevant court, to pass a qualified examination, to obtain a positive conclusion from the Professional Committee of the Supreme Council, and only then to be appointed as a professional judge. Thus, a judge chosen by a deputy must be absolutely obedient so that there will be no questions about these people who should recommend it. Keep that in mind if this is true of one of our colleagues. And so the judge, for example, unlike the military, the employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service, the authorities and the enforcement agencies, and other law enforcement agencies, and you and I have foreseen this in article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, and unlike all other Ukrainian citizens, has been deprived of the possibility of exercising their constitutional right to return to the previous place of work after the completion or termination of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy. And today there are cases where we have an unemployed high level of Shishkin Viktor Ivanovich and other judges who have become unemployed as a result of their position do not need this authority. In other countries of the former Soviet Union, I'm going to give an example to the Russian Federation -- this is a legal issue. The mandate of the judge of the Russian Federation, elected by the deputy of the State Duma of the Russian Federation, is suspended by a decision of a qualified commission of judges, not stopped, but suspended. The changes we're proposing are balancing the ability of all citizens of Ukraine to return to their previous job after the completion or termination of their election office. They sound like this, after paragraph one, to complete article 15 of the Law on the Status of Judges in paragraph 2 of this content. The mandate of the judge, who is established by law by the elected national deputy of Ukraine, is suspended by an authority that has chosen or appointed a national representative of Ukraine. Since we have only two subjects to authorize the judge, this is the President, so the President has to issue a restraining order, and the Supreme Council has to take a suspension order. These are two ways of getting out of this situation. That's the whole point of the law. Thank you for your attention. There's no need to spend any extra money on that. I reported the question. If there's a question, I'm ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u44	It's a simplified procedure. No questions asked. Please have a seat. The word is given to Musiaci Victor Lavrentiovich, head of the Committee on Legal Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, it's hard to add something to what Yuri Anatolyovich has just said. But I'm going to give a point of view to the committee on making changes to article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges. Indeed, it is suggested that only a paragraph, as said by Yuri Anatoliyovich, be added to part two of article 15 of that content, which provides an opportunity for a judge who is elected by a national deputy after the completion of his term of office as Ukrainian national deputy, or, when his authority is interrupted, to return to the previous place of employment. Once again, I want to emphasize what Yuri Anatolyovich said. I remember 1994-1998, that period, the representatives here in the Supreme Council, the National Deputies of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service, were able to make appropriate changes to article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, where they were granted their right to return to the previous place of work and that they were, as they were said, headed back to the Supreme Council for this period and then returned. You remember that they still have promotion services in their titles. But it is very important for the judge to return to his place of work after his mandate is completed. Therefore, the Committee on Legal Policy has decided to support this amendment to article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges and to propose that it be accepted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u46	Thank you, have a seat, please. The word is given to Taras Crnowil, next to Crutz.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u47	Dear colleagues! I have no warnings about this law in principle. I have only one warning. The law is written for the wise. And I remember learning to drive a car, and I wondered why there was a little too much written down in traffic rules. There were old Soviet rules, culturally explained, rules not written for the wise, rules written for idiots. So I would still suggest that we now probably adopt this law clearly and on the basis and in general. But in the future, one day to think and work on some things that would explain clearly enough to complete this position without stating to the judge that he would want to be authorized, even though it is so clear from the law, but we will find which would otherwise be deciphered. And to write, "from the day he took the oath of the National Deputy of Ukraine." Because there will also be good people, either in the President's Office or somewhere that will go back to not knowing how many months. We had examples of a man making himself a governor. And for three or four months, the president didn't sign the papers. And it's going to be exactly the same here. The law still has to be passed. One of its essences is one hundred percent positive; it gives the right to judges who went to the Supreme Council after that to return to their posts. And I would think that this norm is not in this law, but in general it is necessary to extend to a whole range of other professions and professional categories that belong to the really gold fund and to our legal elite and to a whole range of other specialties, because we have really come up with this, as Carmazin, the world’s most highly skilled unemployed, has already said. And this function, in principle, does this law. It will not be enough to discharge in this formulation the function of depriving us of the vast number of these co-sponsors, particularly from the number of judges, particularly the Supreme Court, there may be future precedents with the Constitutional Court. So let's not repeat the kivalovska precedent and for the future, by adopting this law, as soon as possible now as possible in the whole yet to complete it somewhere in the future, if it does go to the second reading, then to the second reading, a point which is called for fools, to make it clear to everyone that the law has to be done with certainty, and who doesn't want to do it so that they can't find loopholes in it. Although I don't know, let's say, in the case of the Higher Council of Justice, for example, the law says absolutely 100 percent clearly that the Head of the High Council of Justice works on a professional basis, we have Kiwalov working there for compatibility, and somehow there, I don't know, on social grounds or whatever, turning it into a closed stock company or a public organization. I'm afraid that in the second part it wasn't used in this particular law. Although the law is clearly necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u48	People's deputy Krutz. Please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u49	Mikola Krutz, Ivano-Frankivsky, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear colleagues! The bill that we're currently considering may at first seem very important and pure, as it were, legal. Because, first of all, it's aimed at solving a problem that can only affect a small number of our citizens' categories like judges. It's different. Explain with the clarification of the relevant legislative formulation of their legal status. Yet I would like us to look at this problem, not from a legal point of view, but from a social and public standpoint. What exactly is the bill about? The realization of constitutional rights such as electoral law and labour rights. And these rights are extremely important regardless of what categories of employees they apply to: workers, employees, or, as in this case, judges elected by the Ukrainian National Deputies. In my opinion, the project offers a perfectly normal thing for the rule of law. By establishing the possibility of suspending the authority of a judge elected by the Ukrainian People's Deputy, we ensure the realization of two of his rights as a citizen. Under such circumstances, the judge will have more legal grounds to claim parliamentary status. On the other hand, judges, who are considered the most qualified lawyers in the country, will win both legal and social benefits. Moreover, a judge who has become a deputy will be more socially protected. He will know that after the parliamentary powers have been completed, he is guaranteed a return to judicial work. By the way, the law is now in place for the military. Our fellow MPs, who are members of the military. They work in Parliament. They know that their office in the Supreme Council can return to their previous place of service. They may not go to serve later, but such a prospect is preserved behind them. In addition, the approach proposed by the project to MPs, as shown in the explanatory note, is also applied in other countries. Both judges and national MPs are primarily citizens of their state, and therefore their rights as well as those of any other category of citizens must be duly guaranteed and protected. In view of that. This bill is usually an appropriate supporter. Taking into account that it is offered by prominent lawyers in Ukraine, who also have great legal experience, and that it is made up of one sentence alone, perhaps it should be accepted immediately and on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u50	Yes, Your Honor, the matter has been discussed. No warning? Please, Pasenyuk Alexander Mikhailovich from the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u51	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich Honorable People's Deputies! The project is making some observations. I'm pointing out that the changes proposed in this law go beyond that. Article 15 of the Law on the Status of Judges. That is, this article 15 foresees, regulates the final termination of the judge’s authority, not the temporary suspension. At the same time, article 38 of the Law on the Status of Judges, which provides for reasons, order, and appropriate powers to suspend the authority of the judge, is overlooked. In addition, articles 61, 62 of the Law on Courtship define exactly the order of appointment of judges to serve, transfer or release a judge from office. This is done by order of the head of the court. The same law does not provide for the suspension of a judge’s authority. In his speech, respectable Karmazin said that this was done by decree of the President or the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But that is not in the law. I mean, I think this law needs substantial work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u52	Thank you. Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak spoke. The draft law amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges on the Cessation of Judges has been considered. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. A draft law amending Ukraine's Code on Administrative Offences on responsibility for violating the requirements for the implementation of petroleum products is being announced for consideration. From the government, please Secretary of State of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Goshovsky Sergey Volodymyrovich. Maria Andriyovna Marcus will report from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u53	Thank you. Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, draft Ukrainian law amending Ukraine's Code on Administrative Violations, designed to implement Ukraine's legislation banning imports and implementation of ethylene gasoline and lead gasoline supplements. In addition, Ukraine has joined other international regulations to implement this provision. Ukraine is in a phased phase-out, leaded gasoline use in Ukraine and has been approved by Kabmin. The issue of compliance with the requirements of standards, norms, and rules of environmental performance of petroleum products in wholesale and retail trade is also regulated by the European strategy. At present, according to the legal and regulatory framework, these issues are regulated and controlled by the State Committee for the Supervision of Standards, Norms and Rules. To date, this committee has conducted 500 tests in five years. And there are more than 5,000 stations in Ukraine. Of these 500 tests, 60 percent have a complete violation of the environmental component of the issue. It is for this reason that it is proposed to authorize the exercise of State control in accordance with the environmental indicators of petroleum products that are being implemented in the field of wholesale and retail trade, standards, rules and regulations to officials, the specially authorized central authority of the executive branch in the field of environmental and natural resources, without depriving them of the powers of the executive authority in the field of consumer rights. As for the ability of the departments of nanology to control this issue, I would like to report the following for your information. We have 51 labs in Ukraine today with a full team of employees who are fully equipped with the necessary equipment and are conducting these tests. However, the issue of the creation of protocols is set aside for a period of time and the relevance of the matter to a particular subject that violates environmental legislation depends on and loses its relevance to the period when the infringement is determined. The determination of lead content in aviation and automobile gasoline is carried out according to the GOSTs based on spectrophotometric methods. The main measurer of this technique is spectro-photo-method or photo-electronorimeter, which all analytic units of mini-resources are equipped with enough. The introduction of this law does not require additional funding from the State’s budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u54	Thank you. Please sit down. Maria Andriyovna Marcus. Okay. Let us turn to the discussion then. Put on the sign the name of the national MPs who are registered. Yuri Karmazin, please, Yuri Anatolyevich. Well, turn it on. We'll have Carmazin report from the scene. Well, please, Ivan Alexanderovich, go to the rostrum while Karmazin is gathered.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u55	Honorable National MPs. John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of "Our Ukraine." When I first introduced myself to this bill, I inadvertently mentioned an episode of Alexander Long's "Earth" filmplay. The hero of the painting swings at a pile of horses, with a heavy horse standing like a buried horse, and he still cannot pull the plow. And he's in trouble. And here the horse goes back to the doctor and says, "Don't beat it, John." This is the offer of the Cabinet of Ministers. The thing is, we have a complex situation with the quality of petroleum products. And what is the essence of the Kabmin initiatives? The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine offers us, the national deputies, legislation to give the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources the right to control the quality of petroleum products, including the content of lead supplements to gasoline. And draw up protocols for administrative violations by the Minecores officials. The State Committee on Technical Policy of Regulatory and Technical Policy is currently monitoring the quality of petroleum products that are being implemented by wholesale and retail trade. As you can see, there's someone to control and there's no quality. What wise managers would do in this situation to correct such a situation. At least they would analyse the reasons for the ineffective activities of the State Committee on Regulatory and Consumer Policy and propose a system of measures to remedy the situation. What do they offer us? Send to this committee the structures of the Minecores. And what are we going to have in the end? If the Regulatory Committee can now analyze only 10 percent of gas stations, the minicore resource has the potential to increase this figure, at most by five percent. And as a result, we're not going to have an equal coverage of gas stations and we're not going to have a painting, a real picture of the quality of oil products. I'm saying there's no Minecores today to do this kind of work. And that's not really his mandate. I'm afraid they're going to release the Minecores now in such a way that they're not going to do politics, they're going to do government policy on natural resources, they're going to do micro-inspections and they're going to distract them from the main task and from the main powers. So, dear friends, I think we should go the other way. Think of the recent news on television. There was a problem -- a scandal in Poland -- that Polish gas stationers fuel cars with very low-cost oil products. And what was the result? It turned out that the Prime Minister came out, said publicly that there was such a problem, that funds were allocated to reinstall the relevant services and were seriously involved in the problem. Instead of solving the problem essentially to really ensure high quality oil products, we're sending the Minecores to help. This is the way to nowhere. This is the way to undermine the authority of the Minecores and not solve the problem. So, dear friends, I suggest you reject this bill and consider it essentially.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u56	Yes, thank you. Yuri Carmazin. I mean, we're already against it. Please. Yuri Anatolyevich. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u57	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! In general, when we consider such a narrow question, and Prime Minister Viktor Janukovic himself has signed it, has given the legislative initiative to consider the Supreme Council a bill amending the Code of Administrative Offences and approved at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. When I read it, I thought, well, at last, Victor Janukovic looked at that code that was adopted back in 1984, that it was patched-over and that the code needed to be reworked, and I think the government probably had completely reviewed this bill and completely changed it from the first to the last page because it was adopted not yet in independent Ukraine, this code. What was my surprise when I saw that the text of the bill on one piece of paper and the bill was essentially made up of several figures and, in particular, there was a lot to be said here: part one and part one of the first part of the second part of article 242 of the Code on Administrative Offences to be completed after the figures 153 with figures and 167 with respect to the implementation of environmental oil products that do not meet the requirements of standards and rules. That's all, Vladimir Mikhailovich, they're taking away the government, they're taking away the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Whether it's normal or not, or whether it's a normal systemic approach to legislation, I would ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, using your weight in political society, your experience of negotiating perhaps with the government, perhaps with the Prime Minister himself, and explaining to him that with such changes, we are demeaning the Supreme Council of Ukraine simply demeaning the government of Ukraine. But I'm forced to tell the people of Ukraine the truth, what's being done, and this is what you read, which is why the government was sitting, which is why we are now sitting. And here I share the very point of view of the people's representative of the Hare, who has just spoken, I mean John the Rabbit, the democratic Hare, who has spoken now and said that it is impossible to take these powers in the sphere of the organ, in the sphere of standardization, metrology, certification. At the very least, this would have to be given an alternative, in an extreme case. Because you can't just take it away. And since this is about the government of another issue, I want to say from this high rostrum, on behalf of 200 Lukoila employees, I've now been approached in Odessa by people at reception who have reported on the monopolistic order of all organizations that sell gasoline for price increases. And they all held 1.99 in Odessa, it's scary, it's a sign of a criminal crime that's foreseen in the Criminal Code. But the criminal article did not break the case. The government has not considered this issue, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u58	Yuri Solomatin, Mikhailo Melniczuk
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u59	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster A party for the protection of the disadvantaged people of Ukraine and, that is, the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! On our committee, we will take a thorough look at this issue. In general, my colleague, the real Hare, Ivan Aleksandrovitch, expressed the opinion of the committee, and if he showed his ears temporarily, he would come back. He also described Carmazin’s colleague very well. So I just want to give you the following. If the quality of the product that is given to the consumer is violated, is there any reason to be intimidated by administrative penalties, it may simply be possible to take away the license to carry out this activity? Let's think with you again about the figures that have been announced. Only 10 percent of fuel fillers have been tested. In 60 percent of cases, quality does not meet national standards. That is, the whole sector of fuel supply, contrary to the laws, is in impunity in violation of Ukrainian legislation, polluting the environment with tetraethyl lead. The former State Standard is reduced to, I'm not going to characterize in what position, not being able to perform quality control tasks that are supplied from oil-powered factories, somewhere along the way, whether it comes with the quality that is foreseen and defined in certificates, whether there's some self-flame that adds a few dozen liters of tetraethyl lead, raises the octane number, and it's already gone to poison the environment. So I would suggest that the Cabinet of Ministers pay attention first of all to the fact that the former State Department's organs, and the defense is now so strangely called that I can't even speak, they've been performing their functions, and they've denied licenses in the event of a one-time violation of fuel quality, because these charges are now at every turn, and let them care about the quality of what they sell to consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u60	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u61	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! In view of the bill in question, it should be supported because the bill proposed to give the right to control the quality of petroleum products to the relevant environmental authorities, the relevant authorities that controlled them and so on. Of course, this is to be accepted. But the prospect is not in this bill. There's no one else in this room in our country. As long as he's working in the state of Ukraine, his greatness is a dollar. The Naphthogaz magnets will never answer to anyone in this state today or tomorrow until the political system of power in Ukraine is changed until the people are in power, rather than the few officials who have turned a blind eye to everything. So let's take one example. There's an AZ. The driver charged the car, drove 20 meters away, and was stopped. They checked him out, and he's told: "You've got lead content." They've adjusted, they can't even find the carburetor. He was given 17 bracelets or 15, so he paid and moved on. And he's responsible for the quality of gasoline. Why not check the checkpoints there directly at the ASA? Why would it be in this bill? So you don't settle that question? Tell me, please, about ecology, about those who control, who should control. I've already talked about Yavorov of the Valley District, Ivano-Frankishte. But I definitely spent three hours in a meeting with citizens, surrounded the whole village, and I don’t understand how these people live there until now. As they survive, the mortality rate is very high. Who checked? Who was in Ivano-Frankivsky? Which one of the ministries was there? And it's not just the cars, it's the cars, it's the cars. And I don't know how they're taking out the ducks, who's pumping oil, and so on. So next to this bill about controlling whether or not. We need to figure out who we have today has more power and power. It's probably an after-gas complex. Here we have to go and look at the root of the evil that they bring to the people of Ukraine and where they're dumping the money where they're going in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u62	Yes, we'll finish. It's from the Cherniak procedure. And Marcus from the committee later.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u63	Dear colleagues! I'm not inclined to be negative about this bill. There is a problem with the quality of petroleum products, often gasoline is low quality, counterfeiting, surrogates are used. So I think it was a good idea for the drafters to propose that the structures of the Ministry of Ecology be integrated into the solution. At the same time, I agree with the MPs that the bill does not solve the issue in general, does not solve it comprehensively, does not essentially solve it. I think he's a palatifist. Although, I think it's a step, a proper step. Nevertheless, the situation can be improved in an ingrained way. What really needs to be done to essentially solve this problem? We need to work closely, offer environmental standards, environmental sanctions, and environmental police. And when it works in a complex, it's going to be a higher quality of oil products. We need to be able to work for the Consumer Rights Committee, and we need to give it adequate resources, adequate personnel, the ability to control it. And we need to step up the work of the Regulatory Committee, to whom he issues licences, on what grounds and who really belongs now, and who rules the ball. And put in the appropriate responsibility for granting these licenses to officials and for taking these licences if there are any minor quality violations. And of course, we need to make appropriate changes to the Administrative Code, and only when we do it in a complex will we be able to solve this quality problem, which is the measure of the effectiveness of our power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u64	Maria Marcus. Please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u65	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, supported this bill and considers it possible to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to accept it as a basis for further substantive work. The bill proposes to give the right to control the quality of petroleum products and to consider administrative offences provided for in article 167. To the owners of a special authorized central authority in the field of ecology and natural resources. Of course, the above-mentioned bill is relevant and necessary because it solves a very pressing problem, which is urgent. There is now an uncontrolled sale of huge quantities of oil products. However, before this bill, I had important observations and I think it should be returned to the author for further processing with such motives. Making changes to Article 242 prime, adding words and figures 167 on the implementation of petroleum products, environmental indicators that do not meet standards, standards and rules does not solve the problem, since the reference to Article 167 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in a Disposal that does not have such a criterion as environmental indicators that it will not be possible to apply Article 167 to such a qualifying mark. Ukraine’s administrative codex needs to be supplemented by a new article 167, which deals specifically with the implementation of petroleum products whose environmental indicators do not meet the requirements of standards, standards, and rules. In addition, the amendment to article 242 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences gives us the right to consider and provide administrative fees, but the problem is not solved by who will file protocols for this administrative offence by who will carry out the analysis or expertise of the oil products. In my opinion, the bill should be returned to the drafter for further work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The decision on the draft law amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences on responsibility for violating the requirements for the implementation of petroleum products will be taken on the day of the vote. A draft law on oil and natural gas rents is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Secretary of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Vadim Valentinovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u67	First of all, I would like to point out that the practice in Ukraine of setting oil and natural gas rents in absolute terms does not correspond to the economic nature of this type of payment, with the aim of removing in favour of a State part of the profits obtained by oil and natural gas undertakings that depend on mining conditions and fluctuations in energy prices. The oil and natural gas rental system in force in Ukraine does not take into account the characteristics of the oil and gas sector, which is characterized by a variety of mining conditions and, as a result, by different production costs. Yes. The cost of oil production in the Boreslav oil pipeline management is almost threefold higher than the cost of oil production in Poltavsky. At the same time, they must pay the same rent. As a result, three of the six oil and gas mining offices of Ukrnefti and two of the four gas industries and the public company Ukrgazgazcha were already lost in 2002. Thus, it can be concluded that the amount of rent payments cannot be the same for all sites. It should provide an interest in the development of sites, both with favourable mining conditions and sites where mining conditions are sufficiently burdensome. The most concentrated indicators of the benefits or disadvantages of mining conditions for economically beneficial oil or natural gas extraction from the subsoil are the depth of oil or gas deposition, which results in the cost of drilling wells and the cost of operation of repairs and preventive work in the drilling well, geological and technical activities to maintain the capacity of the drilling well and the average debit on ground, such as an integrated indicator of energy performance of deposits, filtration and capacity-building properties of the reservoir and the physical and chemical properties of the plastic fluid. In addition to the law, these characteristics are indicated for each of the oil and natural gas deposits. The data show significant differences in the values of these characteristics and the incorrectness of the use for all locations of the value of the rent payments. The oil and gas companies will cover the same rent, regardless of the cost of implementation. Until 2003, the rent on oil was 52 per tonne, both at the price of 451 bracelets per tonne and at the price of 1012 bracelets per tonne. But when the price goes up, the State has to get more rent. The proposed bill and mechanism for the determination of oil and natural gas rent payments corresponded to this role and world practice for the establishment of rent payments, depending on the mining and geological conditions of energy production and the fluctuations in their market prices. The basic principles for the determination of oil and natural gas rents under the bill are the establishment of rent payments for acquired and not for realized energy resources. The determination of the rates of rent payments, depending on the most typical mining performance in mountain and geological conditions, in particular the depth of the location and productivity of the average density of drilling wells. And the dependence of rent payments on the actual level of oil and natural gas prices. The specificity of the proposed mechanism is to establish a separate approach to the determination of rent payments for energy, which are delivered at regulated public prices. This approach reduces the tax burden on natural gas-discharged enterprises at prices and makes natural gas production more cost-effective. At the same time, enterprises that release gas at free prices should pay higher rents. With regard to the economic consequences of the implementation of the proposed bill for the State, the following can be noted. The proposed bill introduces in the first instance a mechanism for determining oil and natural gas interest rates, depending, inter alia, on the actual price level of the product under such circumstances, only an analysis could be carried out, which would have been the case if the bill had been in force in 2002. The analysis shows that if the proposed bill was adopted, the rent payments for oil and natural gas sold on the free market in 2002 would remain at the same level but would be more fairly redistributed. There is no uniform methodology for accrual of rent in world practice. In most countries, the rent is set as a percentage of the value of oil and gas extracted, based on the standard rates based on geological conditions, taking into account the current level of prices. In exporting countries they are higher, in importing countries they are lower. In determining the value of oil and gas, both world market prices and special indicative prices are used. In the development of marine resources, it is usually a concessional tax regime, which is also reflected in our bill. The bill also provides for the separation of excess oil and gas prices between the State and enterprises, i.e. the State receives much more money in the budget. The draft was considered at the meetings of the committee on the questions of the TEC, nuclear policy and nuclear security. The Committee's decision is to base and support the first reading. The bill is also supported by the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine. The draft has a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council. Please support this bill in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u68	Thank you. Please sit down. On the board, list the names of the national MPs who have been enrolled to discuss the bill. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin I'd like, if I could, cut back on my esteemed colleagues in my grades, because it's time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u69	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been very familiar with the draft oil rent law and natural gas, and he's made a serious, say, development, this law, draft law. Because for the first time, it was given on October 15th, then November 14th, and finally, we're discussing the text of the project that was introduced on May 25th. So this tells us that the authors, when they were working on it, were taking into account the observations of the Scientific and Scientific Administration working on themselves, working on improving the bill. And that certainly tells us that there is still a question. These are the questions I'd like to ask you. It is absolutely right that matters related to the payment mechanism should be settled with the law rather than with the decrees as previously regulated. I'll remind you that the President had the right to address economic issues before, and he used it a little bit more. And this has expanded to the point that the President's decree on the setting up of an oil and natural gas rent in Ukraine, which was adopted on December 21st, 1994 and then another decree was taken, on measures to attract investments to develop oil wells with hard-earned and depleted stocks. From June 17, 1996. It is clear that in accordance with the Law on the System of Taxation, such things should be governed solely by the Constitution of Ukraine. Appreciating as the positive idea that this project offers, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in these documents there is no analysis to compare what we are losing, and that we will otherwise have. There is no normal calculation of the financial and economic consequences of the introduction of a new national assembly. Next. And it's very important that this bill becomes effective if it's adopted as a law. In accordance with article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, laws that affect the formation of an income or expenditure portion of the budget should be officially published by 15 August of the year leading up to the planned budget. At the same time, if this law is now in force when it is adopted, it will only take effect on January 1, 2004. And so maybe we have time to work on this law, I think we can adopt it in the first reading, but simplify it and make the calculations that are necessary to calculate all the consequences of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u70	So it's a yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u71	With the warnings I've told you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u72	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u73	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Party for the Protection of the Destitute People of Ukraine, Communist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues! The essence of this law was so well laid out, but it is incomprehensible that this law is purely lobbying. If we had Soviet power, the only form of ownership, then we could redistribute the rents in order to support those who are already working in an exhausted lineage. And now that we've got separate corporations, when there's even a private form of ownership of everything that's going on, it's trying to get a richer and tighter blanket of rent payments, for example, out there from Poltashland, for example, on Galicin. So if Poltavščina and all the other people are good people who agree to support Galicina in this way, please, it will work normally, and all of this will work. But what I'm saying is, do we have market relations, gentlemen of the majority, or don't we? If there are market relations, this bill should be rejected immediately because it does not correspond to the main position of what is being built in Ukraine, or normal animal capitalism. You live, you have good ancestry, you have an extract, you live. If you've exhausted your lineage, you don't have anything, all of it, like our leader said, the president of Ukraine, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma. That's why we can't accept this bill, we have to get it back and let them spin there as they please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u74	One for one, one for the other. A black man, please, Vladimir Kirilovich. I'm sorry, I already announced, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u75	Dear colleagues! Black, faction "Our Ukraine" of the Ukrainian People's Party. That's a big question. The bill smells like oil and gas. And whenever I feel this smell under the Supreme Council dome, I'm a little drunk, I think some people are even more drunk than that, but at the same time there is a need to regulate the issue of oil rents and natural gas. This is beyond doubt, and I agree with my colleagues who have spoken to me about it, that is not an issue to be settled and dealt with by decrees. This is a matter for Parliament. So they made it right that they had proposed a bill. I tend to think that it can be conceptually supported in the first reading, but I want to work seriously in the process of preparing for the second reading. In particular, what questions are there? There is a question about the mechanism for determining and making rents on oil and natural gas, and this mechanism needs to be more clearly, transparently and unambiguously written in the bill. The second question. It's a matter of regulation. This is an MP, my predecessor said that if there's a market, there's no need for regulation. I can't agree with him completely. Such spheres as gas require a certain amount of combination of market relations and government regulation. And it's practically happening all over the world, it's going to be cost-effective. The level of profitability. And that's why it's also a question of combining the interaction of market mechanisms and government regulation, including regulation of the level of profitability, we also need to write more clearly. The third question is the problem of criteria that lay the foundation for all of this, the criteria. So we know where we're building these mechanisms. And the fourth question is the mechanism for the distribution of profits between businesses and the state. I fully agree that this is really a peer question and who will own it And most of that revenue. And how to build this mechanism in such a way that there is a reallocation of these profits between the enterprise and the state for the benefit of the state, but so that businesses are also interested in doing this kind of activity. Finally, the fifth point is the lack of calculation. That's what's practical about all the bills, and so is this bill. I think we need to prepare more serious calculations that will result in the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u76	Thank you. Andrew School, please. Very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u77	The school of Andrews, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Ukrainian National Assembly. I'd like, of course, to agree with the previous statement that the question is really a weedy one, but I don't think its piquantity is that it smells like oil and gas. It's just that if we accept this bill, it doesn't smell like oil or gas, and the potency will remain. So what I want to point out is that, you know, these rents, you have to understand that increasing the rent, which is its regulation, is actually going to lose the entire western Ukrainian oil and gas region. Because, of course, you need money in the budget, no one's arguing about it. But you need to know that you can't hang all the milk on that milk cow. You can't get on a horse that connects, loads all the luggage, because it won't pull anything out, it'll die on the road. So, I think that in this situation here, regulatory norms have to be rejected as a phenomenon, we just have to approach this issue strictly economically, we can't regulate everything in a row. We need to know that there is a limit to which it is not fashionable to raise the rent, because then oil complexes will be destroyed. Then, indeed, they will be easily privatized or taken with the right of a minimally costly ransom. We understand why this is being done. First you drop, then a good uncle comes along and says, "Come on, get up, here's a couple of copies." And for a couple of copies, it'll get practically the whole sector, at least in a large part of Ukraine. Let's not forget that the world's first industrial gas was in the state, in Ukraine. The world’s first industrial oil was in Borislav. These are still well - known facts. And so if we're going to destroy our family right now: gas and oil, who's going to understand us. We have to support, there are problems, I understand that the deeper the lease is. But who's going to define these criteria, frankly, it's a very complex mechanism. I can give you absolutely clear facts on this point. Do we have to just get to the point where Bolivar can handle this load? I don't think so. We need to understand that we need to look for funds to resolve budget revenues, we need to, I don't doubt that. But we have no right for one budget to destroy the entire oil sector, at least the West and the East. Who can handle these... even if they're differentiated. I stress once again that we have no right to do this now. I urge you all, we must preserve this industry, it will repay us with a thank you in the future. Because oil and gas are, we need to invest money to fill the budget constantly, but not once we're full we're going to lose the whole industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u78	Out of procedure, Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u79	The Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, was I think everyone is pleased to hear the truth told by Communist Deputy Solomon, who has already admitted that their leader is Leonid Kuchma, interesting to hear what Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko thinks from this question. But basically speaking, I would like to say that this law has to be adopted, because it stabilizes the situation in the oil and gas market, because the rent payments will be stable every year, will not be adopted in the budget, as is being done now. And they're going to depend on geological conditions. Stimulating drilling to high depths and stimulating extraction from exhausted crops. Because at the stakes that are now in existence, the development of further depleted crops is unprofitable. And drilling deeper than 5,000 m is also harmful, because it's very high-risk. Therefore, this law must be adopted, not discussed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u80	Replica, Solomatine. I can see that. Turn on the microphone and speak only without a name, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u81	Yuri Solomatin. The Communist faction. Dear colleague Rudzkowski, a member of the Socialist faction, allowed himself to interpret my statement from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in such a way that it was as if the Communists of Ukraine had declared their leader to be another person, not Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka. Thank you, Mr. Rudzkowski, as a friend, I cannot define you as my own. Because we're different completely. But I want to add to that. Your activity, it has been so provocative in a number of episodes of activity in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Do you know what the provokers of all times and nations did? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u82	Please, the position of the government. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Virtually every speaking national MP has paid attention to the bill -- no calculations. And that's not surprising, because based on Appendix One and Appendix Two, which is before this bill, the Ministry of Finance has calculated the impact of the bill on the income of the budget, and this is what it's done. It's about the oil rent. Using the method that the drafters gave us, we're going to get minus 22.8 million dollars. As for the rent for natural gas, we're going to get minus about 240 million dollars. And as for the rent for a stable gas capacitor, that's not even mentioned in this bill. At the same time, I want to remind you that the Act on Changes in the State Budget introduces taxation of rent by gas condensate. And that's what's important. Contrary to the requirements of the code, because we have a positive conclusion about this bill of industry experts, that is, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, which is the relevant committee of profile. There is no conclusion, however, that it is contrary to the requirements of the Budget Code of the Committee. So that's what you're asking. This bill certainly requires the conclusions of the Budget Committee, and it needs to be thoroughly worked out.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u83	Review of the draft Law on Rented Payments for Oil and Natural Gas, please State Secretary of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy Luskin Vladimir Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u84	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I'd like to say that the bill has been drafted to take account of the world's experience. And based on an analysis of the characteristics of oil and natural gas crops in Ukraine. The bill is certainly relevant, the only thing that needs to be taken into account, both by Yuri Carmazin and by Minfin, are their specific comments and calculations. And yet I wouldn't advise you not to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u85	Thank you for your point of view. The draft law on the order of payment of the debt for electricity is announced for consideration. Once again, the rapporteur is Secretary of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Vadim Valentinovich Litwin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u86	Thank you. In electricity, the biggest problem today is debt. Because of its failure to resolve, very many energy companies are being tried very hard to corrupt or accept privatization. Debt was forcing the property of Donbassenergo, Donetsk-oblénergo, Luhansk-oblénergo. And now very many similar trials are taking place in the courts. Today, the debt of electricity consumers to 9 billion grevens, the debt of the state-owned energy plant 16 billion grivens, which is approximately equal to the cost of electricity produced during the year. A generation debt of 15.8 billion grevens to energy suppliers, 14.7 billion grevens, and so on. These debts were due to the high level of bartering of calculations between TEC enterprises up to 2000, unbalanced tariff policies, chronic underfunding of the energy industry, the failure of consumers to pay for electricity consumed and stolen, and the lack of real sources of financing for the cost of renewable energy companies after various natural disasters. There is no real source of debt repayment, and there is no imbalance between creditor and creditor debt. Debt cancellation is not a market intervention in an enterprise, it violates the rights of creditors, it is contrary to budgetary and civil law. The option of paying off debts by increasing the price of electricity is also socially unacceptable, and because of the problem of the quality of the debts of the generating companies, a large part of which arose during the bartering period and the lack of transparency of relations in the TEC. It is therefore wrong to raise tariffs and pay those debts on a root basis. This draft law is the first step towards legal settlement of debt in the fuel and energy complex while maintaining the order of calculation of current electricity consumption. The project does not claim a 100 per cent solution to the debt problem. However, its adoption would provide an opportunity to significantly clear billions of debts, to improve the economic situation of industry enterprises, to save some enterprises from bankruptcy and acceptance. The project is of a purely permissive nature. The adoption of the bill could not have an economic negative impact on the TEC enterprises, as debt repayment was done solely at their request. The participants in the calculations shall enter into a contract which shall enter into force only after its approval by the National Electricity Regulatory Commission. I mean, any abuse is completely excluded. The current consumption of electricity continues to be calculated in accordance with existing legislation. That is, the adoption of this law will not reduce the income of energy market participants. Taking into account the need to fill the State budget and the desirability of the activities that lead to the reduction of the income of the budget, the project does not provide for the cancellation of the debt of enterprises to the State budget. The activities provided for in the bill also did not result in an increase in costs or a decrease in the revenue of the State budget. The bill does not provide for any innovation in budgetary calculations, and the settlement of relations with the State budget must be governed by separate laws. The draft was considered at a meeting of the electricity subcommittee, at a meeting of the Committee on the Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. The decision of the Subcommittee and the Committee should be taken as a basis and supported in the first reading. The draft has also been discussed on several occasions by a wide range of specialists and has been finalized to take account of all comments received. The draft has a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine whose main observations have been taken into account. I would also like to support this bill in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u87	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. On board, please give us the names of the national deputies who have been registered. They signed up for discussion. As always, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin is the first. Please, Yuri Anatoliyovich, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u88	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Of course, the bill that is now being proposed by the Lithuanian National MP is a very difficult bill. It's heavy by the consequences that it might have, and I would have asked you here a question like that would have brought you back three years or two years ago in history. You see, please, what happened when we introduced the long-term calculation schemes in energy. You remember the tinnitus of the economy, you remember that only then did the government of Yashchenko - Prime Minister, Timoshenko - Vice - Prime Minister, do anything to get it out of the shade. What do we have today? Today, this special order of accounts is proposed after the repayment of the debt. What is "special order of reckoning"? There is order or calculation or indecision, and what is special order? This special order is what it says here, it means to go between the drops. So a special order is to conduct calculations for electrical energy by sequential execution of obligations, which is to transfer debt and use transfer notes. What did they fight for? Yes, they may have fought for it to bring back what had once been. But the Law on Electricity prohibits the use of calculations in any form other than monetary calculations, so I totally agree, twice it gave the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority a calculation, twice in January and later it was calculated that the application of this order would be a deterioration of the payer's discipline for current and future electricity bills, as consumers would expect the adoption of the next normative act that would be the valid order of calculation. That's how it's written, I've quoted science and expertise, in this case. And appreciating the quality of this law, saying that every law must have its own, absolutely, circle of legal relations, which is not regulated, which must govern. I'll say there's no such circle in this law, anything else can be regulated by the Cabinet of Ministers' regulations, and anything but the changes that are now being proposed. That is why I will not personally uphold this law. And I urge society to be careful that this look will bring about changes that will contribute to the shadowing of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u89	Yuri Solomatin, you already have one, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u90	A Communist faction, a committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been very well advised here that both sides, when they decide on their relationship and on the share of debt that has formed, will go to the National Commission on Electricity Regulatory. I want to remind you that the word "national" is not settled in our country at all. And let us not be blinded by that name. In each of these committees, the National Television and Radio Regulatory Commission, or the electricity sector, there are always certain forces, representatives of certain corporate structures that have been, are, and will be, pushing forward the interests of their corporations, not some national state. Let's not believe these fools, these labels. That's the first one. To the so-called special order. Let's just say, two corporations will come together and they'll go to a third corporation called the NCR to sort of make a deal, and out of the broad law to settle their relationship. You can do that. How many times in ancient times have the debts of an agribusiness complex been defrauded, and in these modern times? But that was understandable. But if it is done in the way it is proposed, it will be a start to create new debtors who have been tempted to go back to the NCR, to take turns around the debts they want to create and create. So, I have a rhetorical question: do you think, your fellow dignitaries, how long are we going to be here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, listening to drafts that openly or secretly lobby certain corporate structures in the fuel and energy complex? I realize that when there was a Soviet state, when everything was national, there was an understanding -- it went from one pocket to another, that's understandable. And when we do it in a market relationship, it's a disgrace! They can't be accepted! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u91	Yes, is Taras Blackwall there? Please, we already have two against the law. You don't mind, do you? Well, let's see. Mikhailo Melniczuk, are you in? For what? Well, please. So tell me, if you're going to be in general, your concept is what you're up against.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u92	So, respectable colleagues, two moments out of this bill, which. For me, it's important. The first moment is a purely strategic course for the rejuvenation of energy that we're running out of. Unfortunately, this is an elementary avalanche, it's like a nuclear reaction, a constant build-up and roll-up of it to a coma. It can't shrink, it can't shrink, it can only grow. This can be cut down by a strong decision, but it is very difficult. It's very easy to run. And second, let me do that. I really don't like populism, but let me. Maybe it's a little bit populist when a person comes to me at a reception where because they haven't got the subsidies in time, or our legislation doesn't give them the ability to raise a few thousand dollars in debt for all the services that they can't write down, they can't even restructure at those debts, organizations that don't forgive me poor. Far from poor I don't see the poor skyscrapers today. We have to cheat on these poor people, let me be forgiven for what it really does smell a little populism, but I think it's a real fact. I think we need to be absolutely against it, and it's normal that none of the people who signed up for the speech wanted to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u93	Yes, Mikhailo Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u94	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. In general, if you take the name of the bill on how to pay off the debt for electricity, I'm in charge of such a bill. And as for its contents, there is a question. For this reason, Vladimir Mikhailovich, sometimes honestly I respect you very much and will refer to you, but it is impossible for a deputy with an orientation of two to stand up for or against and all. Let's take Article 3 of the electrical billing we've already planted a bomb here for who? For those who consume this electricity, please. The accounts listed in part 1 of this article are made by participants using their own or credit funds. I bought, let's say the skyscraper took the loan bought the electricity, and then who gets the credit for the price of electricity, it's not going to cost 20 copies, it's going to cost 70. Does this agree with the consumer? For this reason, the bill needs to be returned; it does not need to be adopted. It's not just this norm, in article 3, but there are other warning points, and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority has also drawn attention to this. There are other questions that I'd like to stop at, as far as calculation is concerned. The atomic station made the product, sold the VAT. Oblenergo bought, sold the product, paid for the VAT. Yeah? I'm a consumer, I bought electricity, and I'm paying VAT again. So please tell me whether 20 or 60 percent pays for the same product or product. On this point, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has repeatedly addressed both the government and the relevant ministries of profile. Why are our people, Ukrainian citizens, paying VAT for electricity? And when, in the end, will the Attorney General put a dot on this issue? Well, that's not possible, reverend. Again, there are warnings on this issue. Because, once again, the bill was possible, and it was necessary. But, Vladimir Mikhailovich, there are articles we will not accept, and the faction will not vote in favour of such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, for that matter. Dear colleagues, you've all spoken. I think so. Give me 30 seconds, please. Reaper, please. The faction of the Agrarian Party. Let's do it as comfortable as you can.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u96	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm with the previous speaker completely. Ivan Mikolaiovich, 162th District, Ukrainian Agrarian Party faction. I want to support the previous speaker that this bill really needs to be seriously processed. But it still needs this law. I just want to give you literally a few seconds, a few digits. Today, Ukraine’s agriculture uses only 3.5 billion kilowatts of electricity per year in production. This is five times less than in 1998. The reason for the decline in electricity consumption in this area was primarily the reduction in agricultural production volumes, the significant increase in tariffs and the large-scale application of fines for various violations, including non-payments. And as a result, it accumulates and accumulates debt for electricity. This debt swap does not allow for the normal use of electricity in agriculture and other national households. Hence, a law is needed, and it must be seriously worked on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u97	Thank you. Next up, a black man, please, with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u98	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Indeed, debt is a problem and needs to be solved. I don't think any of us would mind. But there is a need for legislation to solve this problem and to stop the process of criminalizing the debt problem. Here's the basic requirement for a bill. The return of the bill and other proposals here may, on the contrary, contribute to the criminalization of the debt problem. And second moment. What is the point of the bill and of the other bills that have been submitted to it and may yet be? The bottom line is that we're clearing a business balance to go to privatization for nothing. And everything that's going on at TEC is being done for that. I don't think we can support such bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u99	Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u100	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! This bill can't be adopted in any way, because there is now a scheme of sent-off energy payments. When this law is passed, it will completely destroy this worked scheme. We're comparing the current payments to old debts. And the old is going to come back: debt transfers. Those firms that have bought up old debt for no price will kick money out of energy companies, and the power plant will sit without money. It's going to come back to shutting down the power -- what we had three years ago. Such a law cannot be passed until the situation of electricity calculations is stabilized. All of it. Thank you for your attention. We have to forget about him.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u101	Thank you. A review of the draft law on the order of payment of the electricity debt has been completed. The decision will be made in the light of the discussion. Yeah, we've got 18 hours five minutes. Let's get this over with. Please. Just a minute. From the government. _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, the government also supports the speeches of the people's deputies and such a bill as it is cannot be accepted. So we need to assign Minpalevenergo, Minfin, to the Tax Administration, to work on it thoroughly. In general, such a bill is certainly necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u102	Thank you. Please, Rudzkowski. Then who's there? Sabashuk, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u103	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, 2596 may now be allowed to report to Fialkovsky without discussion. This law, one minute literally. This law has been treated three times, it gives 20 million dollars to the state budget and requires literally one paragraph of the amendment to the law. Let's get this off the hook, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u104	Now, one minute, there's another Sabashuk Peter Pavlovich. Please, what's your offer? Dear colleagues, one minute, come on, here's the first bill. Maybe we'll just have two of these bills and talk about it. Is there no objection? Well, please make the report so convincing that we don't have any questions. A draft Law on the Combined Production of Heat and Electricity and the Use of Reduced Energy Potential is being announced for consideration. Reporter to the head of the subcommittee, the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Peter Pavlovich Sabashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u105	Thank you for your courage, I'll be very brief. In 1996, the first power station we started to build the Mintopenergo said that. For Ukraine, it is not acceptable. Today, about ten power stations are being built in Ukraine, three of them working. So this law is a framework, and I'm asking it to accept it because it's on the first reading so that we can complete it in the summer, and it appears in the second reading that it's already done to get this technology to go. Very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u106	Thank you. What the government thinks about it, Vladimir Andriyovich. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, the government generally supports such a law, not in such an order. In our view, bills that have been given do not have sufficient grounds to justify the adoption of a separate law on coordination institutions. The implementation is provided by a bill of action, perhaps by making appropriate changes to the existing legal and regulatory framework. In particular, Ukraine's laws on electricity and alternative sources of energy. Then we can talk about this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u107	Thank you. I understand that the government likes the title of the bill, doesn't like the meaning. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ I can only say that such laws are in all countries of the world, they are different.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u108	Thank you. All right, sit down. We're about to be judged by Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u109	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. I'm very short, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The point is that we have very little time, and the point is that we have the ability to actually and scalely save energy. I'll give you just a few laws for example. I thought we were the only ones who wrote laws that were called that. Please, Germany: "For the protection of generation-based electricity production" - 2000, the laws, the “Energy Law” of the Republic of Poland were passed. Two laws were passed in 1997 and 2000. And they were predicting incentives, including benefits, funds, and these stations that were about to say that they were to be built. And we have to give these opportunities to stimulate the use of potential. Therefore, only the cancellation of VAT will be proposed for purchase of a turbogenerator. And here's to the added value tax, which you know is a tax that's harmful to the development of the state. Here you have to set the zero rate of this tax and then predict this on the second reading. As a whole, the first reading of this law does not pose any danger to the State of Ukraine. It can be accepted in the first reading and made changes and additions. And I call upon Secretary of State of Lushkin to do so as well. Believe me, I've done an expert on this law, and I can see that the oligarchs' ears don't follow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u110	Thank you. If there is no objection, there are no more willing speakers. No, you're not in here. None. Consideration of the draft Law on Combined Heat and Electricity Production, Congeneration and Use. Energy potential is complete. A draft Law amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Added Cost Tax on Import Transactions, Transfer of Taxation Goods is being announced for consideration. Reporter Fialkowski, please. National Deputy Fialkovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich Very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u111	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! It's a very short law. In fact, look. All we have now is such a rule that the value added tax is managed immediately at the crossing of the customs border of Ukraine. We have the only exception for those who import tobacco. In fact, the State lends such enterprises. This does not meet the general rules that exist around the world regarding the payment of taxes on the added value of excise goods. This also does not correspond to equality for all business subjects. I mean, it's suggested that we make a level playing field for everyone. I cannot help but agree with the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Authority, which, in addition to saying quite positively that such changes will allow the Constitution of Ukraine to be met in terms of equality of all operators. The committee's conclusion is also unanimous for all in attendance - for this bill. It is suggested that you accept it in the first reading. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u112	Thank you. Please, from the committee, Victor Kaputsin. Yes, have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u114	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Finance and Banking has considered this issue and, as the rapporteur said, unanimously joins in supporting this bill, it needs to be adopted, because it puts all taxpayers at the same level, it's a perfectly logical conclusion, and we support it, and we recommend that the Supreme Council adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u116	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyovich, your grade, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u117	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I really enjoy such a law. It's very small, but it's very, very important. It is important that those who lobbyed these interests of death importers for Ukrainians -- tobacco who imported, who asked questions about being in an exclusive position -- should be defeated and should win the entire nation of Ukraine. In fact, it's very big money and very simple things have to be done, you just have to set the same rules of the game. And today these are the projects of the People's Deputies of Rudzkowski and Filkovsky. I would just like to thank them sincerely for their civic position, they actually saw a hole in the budget, there, really, for 230 days, but it's a very serious benefit. I think we can do this, I ask that we discuss it in factions and adopt it on Thursdays on the first and second readings as a whole as a law. Because it's an immediate addition to our scarce, poor budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u118	Thank you, Yuri Anatoliyovich, Vladimir Kirilovich, you will speak and finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u119	Dear colleagues! I also support the proposal to adopt the bill in the first reading. In general, lobbying is a normal thing if it's a civilized lobbying and it's aimed at protecting national interests and protecting the interests of our voters. In this case, it's about cancelling the benefit of setting the only rules for playing the game on the level of the conditions for all the underpriced goods, which is a perfectly normal thing for a civilized economy, which our economy should be in the future. So setting a level playing field for all taxpayers, without exception, I think this is the right course of the Supreme Council's legislative work, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u120	Thank you, too. Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u121	Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for supporting our bill, and I just want to point out that this will really give you an additional revenue of over $20 million to the state budget. We're looking for money to increase wages, pensions, it's going to be real revenue. Because it was illogical, the state was lending companies that could pay for their own imports of raw materials and taxes. This law I propose to support on Thursday in the first, second, and in general, and to send the President for signature. In order to be included in the budgeting for the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m1.u122	Dear colleagues. The draft law on the amendment of article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Added Value Taxes on Importation and Transfer of Excise Goods has been finalized. We'll make a decision on Thursday. What notes, warnings, there are no. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you for your fruitful work. Tomorrow we'll resume our meeting at 10 o'clock. The issues set out in the Wednesday schedule will be considered. Good luck.
