ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u1	People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:03:48]] Registered -426 There are 426 national deputies registered. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. We continue to consider matters according to the order of the day. As long as you're ready, I'll make a public announcement. Pursuant to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2. I am informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the exit of the Ukrainian National Deputy Volkova Alexander Mihajlovich from the MP's Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, 4:00 p.m. May I have your attention, please? At 4: 00 p.m., we should consider the issue of the release of judges. Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk, please. Gennady Josephovich Vudovenko, please. As long as Onitchuk goes, Hennaday Josephovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm brief. I've been asking for a word since 10 a.m., and my colleague Cibenko has made a comment, and I would like to make a brief statement on the draft statement on the inclusion of this issue in the agenda, because tomorrow we will conclude the session and we will not be able to make such a toothless statement about the important event in Ukraine's political life -- the 85th anniversary of the proclamation of Ukrainian state independence in the last century of the Ukrainian People's Republic. I beg you, perhaps now you have given Mr. Oneichuk your word, I don't know, you decide, but I don't want to interfere in the agenda, but since 10 a.m. as a law-abiding member of Parliament I've drawn my hand, I've got up, I've not screamed, I've got the remark -- why I'm interfering in the order of dealing with matters essentially. Maybe it was a fair observation, I'm now, because "Our Ukraine" is working with the communists, I can say, a fair observation. And if we don't cooperate, I'm going to say unfairly. We're allies. So what's in this statement? 85 years of declaring the state we're sitting on! And that's a boycott. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm asking you to find an opportunity to give me an opportunity. It's not me here, you see, a symbiosis of the majority and minority: This indicates that at last, if the Communists had joined in, we would have political harmony in society in the name of the construction of the Ukrainian independent state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u3	Gennady Josephovich! Dear colleagues, let us consider this question of the release of judges and then listen to the voice of a wise person and consider this question, our fellow national MP. Is there no objection? Please, Mikola Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u4	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! Your opinion is proposed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling on the release of judges. I want to highlight two important points right away. The first thing we're going to do today is release the judges on four grounds. The first reason is because of the application for a judge’s resignation. And to your knowledge, I inform you that if a judge worked for more than 20 years of judicial service, he can apply for retirement and all the guarantees provided for judges are kept. So, according to paragraph 15 of Article 85, paragraphs 6 and 9 of Part 5 of Article 26 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 43 of the Law of Ukraine "On the Status of Judges" The Supreme Council decides: to release from office in connection with the submission of an application for the resignation of a judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine Rostyuèko Jury Anastajovich, judge of the Court of Appeal of the District of Dniepropetrov, the District Court of Timos Nonou, the judge of the Court of Appeal of the District of Kiev, the District Court of Kiev, the District Court of Pavlov, the judge of the local court of the Province of Pavlovija, the District of Pavlovina, the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of the District of Pavlovija, the District of Pavlovia. [[Zitomirsk Region]] The following is the reason and the next category for applying for a state of health pension, which prevents the judge from continuing his duties. By the way, this ground also gives the judge rights and preserves the status and guarantees provided for the judges. Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Archipov Irina Arkadyovna and Judge of the local court of the Vinick garrison Melniczuk Anatoly Ivanovich. The following is the reason why the judge of the local Shevchenkov district court of Zaporozhye, Leonid Vasilovich, was released at his own request. Both the last and the basis and the candidature are in connection with the acquisition of legal force by an incriminating judge of the local district. District Court of the Cherkas region of Vaskovsk Viktor Anatoliyovich. Dear colleagues, the proposals outlined in the draft decrees were prepared on the basis of the submission in accordance with the law and the Constitution of Ukraine by the Higher Council of Justice and discussed at the Committee of the Supreme Council of Legal Policy. The committee came to all the applications very carefully, examined each one of them, personally, and concluded that it could be recommended that the Supreme Council should take that decision as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u5	I'm betting on the vote on the adoption of Supreme Council ruling No. 2597 on the release of judges to the vote. Please vote. [[16:12:21]] For 311 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, come on, there was a question here in this block -- a draft decree to change the boundaries of the city of Neteshin Hmelnicki district. I am voting on the adoption of this decree at number 2628. Please vote. The committee supports. [[16:12:56]] For 337 For 337. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the proposal before this was made by Gennady Josephovich, who urged us to consider and vote on this statement by the Supreme Council. Is there no objection to putting it on the vote for inclusion in the agenda? I'm betting on the vote on the agenda for the Supreme Council of Ukraine's "On the 85th Anniversary of the Fourth Universal of the Central Council of the Ukrainian People's Republic" project. Please, Your Honor, determine how to vote. [[16:13:41]] For 239. For 239. I'll bet the vote on acceptance on the basis of the draft of this statement. [[16:14:04]] For 237 For 237, sir. I'm betting on a vote on the whole draft decree as a decree. Please vote. Change the vote, please, Rodionov. Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov. Change the vote. With a motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u6	Communist faction, Rodionov. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! It seems to me that such a political statement, with all due respect for Hennadi Josephovich, the Supreme Council still cannot accept it. And for these reasons. First. In this statement there is much right, but there is a claim that the fourth universe has established and formed the basis for uniting Ukrainian lands under a single state. I want to remind you that this statement contradicts historical truth. First and foremost, the unification of Ukrainian lands began at the beginning of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution and ended after the victory of the Great Homeland War. Therefore, if the Supreme Council accepts such a decision, that is, it is contrary to historical truth. That's how it is. Although in general I am a supporter of the opposition and support what it says, "Our Ukraine" is working together, but it is not possible for the Supreme Council to establish the truth by its determination. And the truth is, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to welcome the entire project as a statement of the Supreme Council's 85th edition of the Fourth Universal Central Council of the Ukrainian People's Republic. [[16:16:21]] For 203 Haven't you been able to vote? I'll put it to the vote one last time. Regarding the adoption of the draft of this statement as stated "On the 85th anniversary of the publication of the Fourth Universal of the Central Council of the Ukrainian People's Republic." [[16:16:54]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we made a deal with you, and I want to remind you that we will be included in the agenda. I know we're going to get to that question right now, I know what the question is. Draft Decision "Request to the Bundestag of the Federal Republic of Germany in connection with the resolution of the participants of the round table on the issue of payment to all categories of victims of national-socialist persecution, bond, mutual understanding and reconciliation." I'm asking you to back me up. This was Peter Stepanovich Zibenka’s suggestion that we then balance our approaches. I would like to vote on the inclusion and consideration of the draft regulation. Please vote. [[16:17:43]] For 318 Z-318. Decision taken. I'm betting on a vote on the adoption of this project as a basis. Please vote [[16:18:10]] For 363 Decision taken. If there is no objection, I am voting on the draft decision as a ruling. Please vote. [[16:18:32]] For 371 The draft has been approved. Dear colleagues! You and I have agreed that at the request of the National Deputies, we will return to the draft Amnesty Law. You know two projects. I will put them to a vote in this order. By way of conduct, please Rephat Chubarov. I'll give you one minute. National deputy of Chubarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you've looked a few times when I'm asking for reasons, or on other matters, like other MPs, you're pretending that you don't see me. So I am a sign of protest today not taking part in the vote on all other issues. Thank you so much for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u9	What do I have to do to make you forgive me? People's deputies are standing there, I just can't see you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u10	We just have to follow the Rules and nothing else.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u11	Dear colleagues! When we voted on the 85th anniversary, you didn't speak for the Rules. Well, let's be polite then. The Turkinov People's Deputy. I'll make amends, you know I can learn.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u12	Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I remind you that we are unable in our country to create normal conditions for our prisoners. Every day they are actually tortured in prison. That's why, dear colleagues, before we leave, we ask for the law to be passed in the first reading, I repeat, in the first reading of the amnesty, the law that is approved by the committee. Vladimir Mikhailovich won the most votes. I'm asking you to put him up, and, dear colleagues, back him up. And it can be completed when we get out of vacation to vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u13	Yuri Carmazin. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, we will now vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u14	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! WE ARE obliged to adopt the amnesty law in the first reading today in order to unlock this process. And we have to write it down now, because this is where the ideology is determined to get into this bill, necessarily the people who are arrested on March 9th -- absolutely! - and people who are sick. I mean, the ones in the Andrew School project that we talked about. If we write it all down, there'll be a 100 percent consensus in the room. That's it. And I ask you to vote for it and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues! You understand the suggestions, but I'm going to put two projects in order to keep the Rules here. I mean, I'm the first to vote on the draft amnesty law, government law for adoption as the basis for the first reading. [[This is number 2287.]] Please vote. [[16:21:46]] For 175 I'm betting on the adoption vote as a basis for the first reading of the draft amnesty law. [[No. 2287-1]] This is a project of the National Deputy of School. Please vote. Supported by the committee. [[16:22:18]] For 213 "For" - 213. Dear colleagues! Then let's vote for the re-first reading to send these projects. Let's go, huh? The author is School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u16	I thank the National Deputies very much for what -- and their relatives are there, and they will be their relatives -- that they voted against this totalitarian state having at least a crumb, a crumb! I'm underlining the crumb of delicacy on our part. We go on vacations, we rest, we work, they rot in prisons just because we did not vote for the normal law. Under the law proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, no one would go out on amnesty. I emphasize, no one, no participants on March 9th, 30th, 20th, anyone. This is a law against prisoners. And of course I thank all those who voted in favour. I don't see any other way to just give up amnesty as a phenomenon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, please let's vote for the re-reading, we'll agree on our positions and vote at the beginning of the third session, we'll make a decision. From the procedure, please, Melniczuk. Kirilchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u18	The Julia Timoshenko faction. Kirilchuk. I'm asking you to show the factions now and read to our audience what faction has voted. I demand it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, I bet. Please. Dear colleagues, I think you can take this information, it's, if necessary, print it. I'm voting for re-reading the draft amnesty law. So we're sending these two bills, then we're going to define ourselves on the committee, we're going to compromise. Well, we didn't vote for that one or that one. I can put it in order. I'm betting, Your Honor, on re-reading the Amnesty Act's draft number 2287 government. Please vote. [[16:24:51]] For-195 For 195, no decision is taken. I'm voting for the re-reading of the Amnesty Act 2287-1. Please, vote, [[16:25:17]] For 305 For -305, the decision is made. Let's move on to the meeting schedule. Draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine "On Local Self-Government in Ukraine" and "On Local Government Administrations". [[on the creation of observation committees]] Please serve as head of the Ukrainian Department of State for the execution of the sentences of Alexander Borisovich Ptashinski. One minute for you. Anatoly Volodymyrovich, will you be speaking, Orzhachowski?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! All present! The draft law before you is intended to regulate the procedure for the establishment of observation committees at the place where criminal enforcement agencies are located. It is proposed to amend article 38 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, which provides for the granting of powers for the establishment of observation committees to executive committees not only to city councils but also to rural and rural councils, and article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations, according to which the powers for establishing and directing observation committees will also apply to the competence of district government administrations. The introduction of the Act amending certain laws on the creation of observation committees does not require additional expenditure on the State budget, as observation committees form and operate on the basis of public principles and will facilitate the work of the criminal enforcement system. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u21	Anatoly Volodymyrovich, what position does the committee have in this regard?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u22	Anatoly Orzhachowski, head of the Committee on Executive Affairs, the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Voters! At a meeting of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government on 12 November last year, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Ukrainian Laws on Local Self-Government in Ukraine and on Local Government Administrations was discussed, Number 2004, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in part of the creation of observation committees not only by the executive bodies of local councils, but also by the rural and rural councils, as well as by district government administrations. The committee unanimously supports the proposed bill, guided by such considerations. The observation committees are commissions that, according to valid legislation, are set up by local self-government bodies and whose main tasks are to correct and rehabilitate convicted persons, as well as to exercise public control over the activities of the institutions and bodies that execute court sentences to deprive them of their will and correctional work without being deprived of their will. Correctional agencies are known to be overcrowded today. All are well aware of the state of funding for these institutions, which unfortunately does not ensure that the relevant standards for the maintenance of convicted persons are met. It is natural that this sphere of government is a specific sphere and is not a topic of local importance as a topic of local self - government, and its respective powers in this area are known not to be self - control, but delegated powers of local self - government. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that correctional and labour colonies are located in areas under the jurisdiction of rural, rural, urban, or territorial communities that cannot stand outside this important state affair. Thus, the establishment of observation committees in the executive committees of these councils, although increasing the work of local governments, is a socially meaningful and beneficial matter. The bill also supports the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office and proposes to amend article 122 of the Ukrainian Labour Code on the procedure for approving the position on the activities of monitored commissions, please support the proposed decision - draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u23	I am betting on the adoption of a draft law amending Ukraine's laws on local self-government in Ukraine and on local government administrations on the establishment of observational councils. Change the vote. Carmazine, please. And we only accept it in the first reading, and then we'll be able to make changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u24	Yuri Carmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to pay attention to what we're doing in the first reading, so there's got to be a discussion. In terms of discussion, I want to say that it's the right idea, but we're going because we're adding to a clearly outdated normative act. This provision was approved by decree of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR in 1967, and changes were made as early as 1984. So today, any legislative act of the Presidency is illegal. Therefore, there is a need to amend Article 122 of the Labor Code at the same time. So what I'm saying is, let's take it now, and now we're going to have the task of preparing and at the same time making changes to Article 122 of the Labor Code. Otherwise we'll just make fun of even sparrows.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I bet. National Deputy Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u26	Thank you. First of all, I don't know who's going to keep these committees, the machines of these committees. What about self - government agencies? And the Constitution makes it clear that if even a state gives authority, it has to pay for the exercise of these powers. Hence, no resources are transferred to self - government. Moreover, such powers simply cannot be passed on to self - government. He can't. The state judges by the name of the law, the state holds back, and then returns to the place where it lived, and the authority of self - government has to take care of its upbringing. It can't be, it just can't be. So I think in this part, it's just going to be a state function from the beginning to the end. And so it is, by the way, in other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u27	I'm voting on the basis of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Laws on Local Self-Government in Ukraine and on Local Government Administrations on the establishment of observation committees. Please vote. Dear colleagues, here comes the vote. [[16:32:58]] For 331 For 331. Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on National Archives and Archives. Is there a chairman of the Arch Committee? Please, Hennady Volodymyrovich, your arguments are only very brief, please. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your point is to amend a series of legislative acts, which are seven laws in force in Ukraine, in connection with the adoption in December 2001 of the National Archives and Archives Act. Making changes to the bill does not provide for additional financial and material expenses in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u28	The committee's offering to take it as a basis. Is there any objection? I am betting on voting, on the adoption of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the National Archives and Archives. Please vote. Please, Your Honor, back up. [[16:34:19]] For 305 For 305. Decision taken. I'm announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Cinematography to comply with the Ukrainian Law on Copyright and Neighbouring Rights. This is where the committee proposes to be based. Please, deputy. Let's take it from the government, then. From the government of Chmill Hanna Pavlovna, a few words.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u29	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The introduction of amendments to Ukraine's Act on Cinematography is subject to the adoption of a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Copyright and Neighbouring Rights and the clarification in relation to this article 3, 7, 16 of the Ukrainian Act on Cinematography and the introduction of articles 19 and 20 of the Act on Cinematography in relation to changes in legislation in the financial and budgetary sphere, i.e. the adoption of the Budget Code. Article 8 is complemented by the need for the introduction of Ukrainian cinematography in the information and analysis system. Article 13 corresponds to paragraph 12, paragraph 12, of the Advertising Act, which defines the beginning and conclusion of the film, which is essential for today. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u30	Les Stepanovich, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u31	There's nothing new here, there's just the legalization of new concepts, like showing a movie, national screen time, film producer, distributor, distributor, that's the protection of copyright. And the only thing in article 13 is that we complement the definition of what movie subtitles are, that they're part of the movie. This is important for advertising because these subtitles are sometimes not part of the film and do not go into advertising time. So I propose to support him as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u32	I'm betting on the adoption vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukraine Act on Cinematography to comply with the Ukrainian Law on Copyright and Neighbouring Rights. Please vote. [[16:36:45.]] For 363 Three hundred and The committee proposes the adoption of this draft bill as a whole. Please vote. [[16:37:09]] For 348 For 348. Decision taken. The draft Act amending the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs, on the exemption from duty of notarial certificates for the collection of debt from rent, is being announced for consideration. Acting Head of the State Property Fund Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov 30 seconds, please, Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u33	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. In view of the increase in the budget for public property rents from 150 million dollars in 2002 to 265 million dollars in 2003, the current problem is the reduction in government rents. At the end of last year, debt accounts for 20 million dollars. The Law on the Rent of State and Municipal Property provides for the collection of this debt on the basis of the executive inscription of the Notaryus. This inscription still has to be paid for a period for which no funds are allocated to renters. Unfortunately, this budget, with financial constraints, did not provide for this. In this connection, the Fund proposes to adopt a bill that provides for the release of state bodies of privatization from payment of the specified duty. This will allow more extensive pre-trial work in the courts and increase revenue from the rent of funds to the State Budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u34	Please, Sergey Terjohin, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u35	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! We discussed this very carefully. The committee proposes to accept only the first reading in view of the fact that we have voted on the State budget and that we should not violate the principles of appointments between the various authorities of the State and such budgetary organizations, including government notaries. So the proposal is to support it as a basis. And then with the budget committee, we're going to try to compromise on that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u36	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u37	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! With the adoption of the Budget Code and the adoption of the budget, there will be some balance in the budget. So there are two ways out of this situation. After all, one percent is a budget loss, and according to Article 6.2. 7 We do not have the right to do so, nor do we have the right to do so in accordance with article 27, paragraph 2, of the Budget Code. So we only have one way out. The law provides that this law will become effective either as of January 1, 2004, or only then can it be adopted in the first reading. We have no choice but to follow the letter and the spirit of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u38	Thank you. I'm very short. Mr. Yuri, you've completely repeated what I said. There will be no budget loss, but there will be a change of assignment, because if the State Property Fund doesn't pay 1 percent, it will have a 1 percent cost savings. But there's a question of funding the state notary's organs, and so once again, the committee's proposal on the first reading, and then we'll find the points of contact with the budget committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u39	Valery Assadchev, will you? Please, Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u40	Thank you. We considered this issue in principle in the budget, but since the budget was coming very soon, we were unable to resolve it. There was an idea of a certain amount of the rent to transfer to the local privatization authorities involved in the lease. So I agree with what is needed in the first reading, and then we will find a common language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u41	I'm voting on the adoption of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers decree on the exemption from duty of notarial certificates for borrowing from rent. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u42	The committee's asking for support. [[16:41:45.]] For 235
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u43	235, decision taken. To your attention, the draft law amending the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' Decree on State Customs concerning the collection of duties from foreigners. Paul Anatolyovich Shisholin, 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u44	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill relates to the fact that since July 1, 2001, foreign enquiries and their passports have been assigned to the border forces. But we can't take off today a government duty of 85 copies from every citizen crossing the state border. Therefore, the bill proposes to hold a state tax not for the registration of foreigners at the check-in points, but for the extension of their stay in Ukraine, which is carried out by the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. At the same time, increase the rate of government duty. And increase the rate of government duty rates for issuing, or extend the period of validity of Ukrainian residence permits. And also paragraph 26 of article 4 of the Decree, which exempt foreign tourists from the payment of duties to this day. The implementation of the act does not require additional financial revenues, or we will be able to increase local budgets by over 5 million dollars. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u45	Please, Sergey Terjohin, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u46	Very thesis, again. The committee supports the two-proposed proposal, first of all, the tax goes up, not down, so there's going to be more revenue for the budget. Secondly, we eliminate considerable discrimination against foreigners, who were forced to register their passports even on arrival as a tourist or on a business trip. We bring our legislation to the norms of the European Union and liberalize it in this case. Therefore, given the increase in budget revenues and the liberalisation of legislation, the committee not only proposes to adopt this law in the first reading but also to adopt it today as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u47	Yuri Klukkowski. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u48	Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine", National Movement of Ukraine. I have a question for both reporters. Is it an automatic match between rising or taxing, or setting this point for tourists and increasing income? Doesn't it seem to us that this coin-to-peer duty will lead to tourists who have to face additional difficulties that they have not yet encountered, just less to come to Ukraine, not to increase income, but to shrink sharply. So is there any way to explain, justify, or avoid it?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u49	Dear Mr. Klukkowski, I'd like to ask you to read more carefully, but this is about not taking any credit for the registration of tourist passports and of those who come again, and of those who come on board and so on. What are we talking about? It's about raising from 0.5 untaxed minimums to 5 and from 0.2 to 2 people who come to permanent work or migrants who come to Ukraine. This, among other things, will allow us to fight illegal migration, that is, people who come without legal grounds to Ukraine, work, increase unemployment in the middle of the country, and so forth. As far as I'm concerned, once again, tourists or simply moving citizens by their professional signs are not paying; we cancel them at all for registering their passports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u50	I see. Valentin Melniczuk. I see, I see. Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u51	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I support Mr. Klukkowski. And yet, ladies and gentlemen, we want to increase the budget, motivated by a lot of people coming to see us. You look at where the Ukrainians are going for 6 million and think about the reaction of other states if our people are going today and they have to go because of the economic situation abroad. Would that affect our Ukrainians more than the foreigners who travel to Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u52	Thank you. Once again, I would like to point out that the increase in duties goes by two categories. Very careful. The first category is those who come for permanent residence and register their foreign passports. The second is temporary residence. This does not apply to people who come, again, for professional reasons or for tourist purposes. As far as the moment of the offer is concerned, there are 5 non-taxable minimum citizens' incomes. 17 times 5 is the amount you're going to take for this service right now. In order to appeal to the Green Card in Canada, tariffs have recently been raised, which, if I'm not mistaken, cost roughly half a thousand dollars. So let's do some, you know, at least a little reconciliation. One thing -- that's 75 dollars, and the other thing is $500. So I think we should, this is the right law that relieves the obligation to register passports of any person who comes in here or with tourism, and this is very good, on the other hand, raising the budget's income.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u53	Thank you. Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u54	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, I am authorized to announce that the faction has made a decision after discussing this bill to support it in the first reading. That's why I'm talking about it because the committee's decision to accept it as a whole was announced here. Instead, the faction had some warnings about the individual rules of the bill. So my conclusion: I very much ask you not to put this bill on the vote as a whole, because this will deny the rights of our national MPs to make proposals in the second reading of this draft.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u55	Chubarov's reaction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u56	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. To some extent, Roman Zvaric said, I would like to draw your attention to such a situation. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, many ties between relatives were broken, and they lived in post - Soviet space. To us, every single one of you, if not every other one, is coming from either Russia or Belarus -- we see that every year there are radical changes in the rules of entry-exit from one country or another. What do I have to do? I, in understanding the logic of that law, also firmly opposes accepting it in its final form today, that is, in general. Let us read only in the first reading in order to avoid those moments when, well, the citizens of Ukraine will suffer again, for their relatives will enter them and they will pay double or five times the amount of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u57	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u58	Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine, Solidarity, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! It seems to me that those MPs who have now spoken against the adoption of this bill as a whole have not quite understood something. The point is that the law in force on the legal status of foreigners did not provide for the extension of the period of stay of foreigners in Ukraine in general and for the purpose of doing so. We've already become a nation of substantial political migrants from risk-taking countries. And then they show it as negative about Ukraine. So I think that after this discussion, which has resulted in no proposal for specific changes, and I assure you that it can't be invented because I've now carefully studied this bill, I ask you to vote on the first and second readings, because there is no possibility to make any proposals here anymore. We'll save our border guards, we'll solve their hands in this way, we'll just untie their hands, and we'll provide, we'll allow a financial barrier to be created while the deadlines are extended, which is not even provided by law today. It's a loophole in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u59	Thank you. Sergei Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u60	Let me give you a brief summary. Parliament can vote as it pleases - both in the first reading and in general, and so on. The only, once again, is the law directed, on the one hand, to halt, indeed, illegal migration, which has now gained enormous volume in Ukraine and has led to an increase in the level of unemployment of Ukrainian citizens. That's the first one. Second, Mr. Rephat, on the contrary, this law exempts relatives who come here to their homes, register passports, and pay for their duties. This law frees them from this obligation, as it is today. Hence, this law is aimed at legal relations between relatives and tourism and shipping. So you can vote in the first reading, you can vote in general, I said a recommendation to our committee. We would like the foreign service to start a hard fight on one side -- with illegal migrants, on the other hand -- it would not spoil the mood of citizens who simply go into our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, the arguments are clear, obvious. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u62	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! We're arguing with you in vain, let's follow procedure. The committee suggests: first we vote in the first reading, and then we see, we vote, so it's going to be in the second reading. Which is why we're moving two readings right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u63	Thank you. I'm betting on the adoption vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' Decree on State Customs, on the collection of duties from foreigners. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u64	The committee proposes to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u65	Here comes the vote, your honors. [[16:53:47]] For 353 For 353. Decision taken. There was a proposal for a committee to accept as a whole the Law, taking into account the arguments. I'm willing to vote on the adoption of this project as a whole, as the Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u66	Please support, this is a very important law. [[16:54:11]] For 304 For 304. Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Law amending the Law on Electricity on Environmental Arms is being announced for consideration. Vladimir Konstantinovich Bronnikov, head of the subcommittee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u67	Dear President, distinguished colleagues present! I recall that this law complements the laws on the protection of populations and territories in emergencies, from technological and natural disasters. And the Environmental Protection Act. This law introduces the concept of “ecological armour” of an energy user, which implies that no enterprise, however dangerous, can be shut down and must be energy-efficient to ensure that no harmful substances are released into the environment so that neither personnel nor the population can be affected. The Act provides for the development of technical organizational activities to prevent the energy supply of environmentally hazardous facilities from being cut off in any situation. The Act also defines emergency sources of financing for environmental armor in the event of an enterprise going to liquidation and becoming insolvent. The Committee considered and unanimously requested its support on first reading. The expert office also considered and supported its adoption on first reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u68	Valentin Melniczuk, please, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we need to speak for it or against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u69	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear reporter, what they're bringing in today, I'm not talking about electricity anymore, and paying off the population of VAT is understandable. My point is, the bill is next. Please tell me who will pay whether it will pay the budget or whether it will fall back on the payer, the electricity user. It's very important. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u70	Of course, if the enterprise is going to be destroyed and it is owned by utility property, it will be a local budget. In the event that this enterprise is destroyed, it is likely to be the State budget. But these financial systems have yet to be developed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u71	Please, I can see, Peter Dusty. I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u72	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, unfortunately, we continue to practice shamefully when laws are passed that significantly affect the spending of the State Budget without having a budget committee position. We cannot now put this law into consideration if we have not calculated what expenses will be incurred, the taxes of the State Budget and the local budgets, the adoption of this law. What will be the procedure for determining these costs? We just passed the State Budget Act, we have huge problems after the adoption of the Minimum Wages Act, which made a big hole in the state budget, and we are now continuing this practice. Requesting the organizational authorities not to put questions before the budget committee without consideration under the 27th article of the Budget Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u73	People's Deputy Kirilchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u74	The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Motherland Party. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to support the head of the budget committee that has just spoken and to put the matter on the table. And the second. That's for the reporter. Under that name, a law has already been passed in the past year, but it is quite different. What do they have to do with the name, you haven't checked it?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u75	There were no laws under that name. This law is primarily institutional and technical in order to prevent the diversion of water supply systems, water decontamination systems, other systems that we know of, and technological disasters. Both these systems and this law do not require any budgetary burdens, additional burdens. It is simply setting up a system to ensure the security of our population and the inadmissibility of interruption of energy supply.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u76	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u77	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear people of Ukraine! Once again, this law shows that certain financial clans want to deceive and deceive the nation completely. I'm paying attention to part four of article 24 of the proposed project. Energy suppliers are entitled to compensation from the State Budget for the cost of electricity supplied to consumers at the level of environmental armor in case of underpaid consumers. In this case, the Minfin State acquires the right to a relative corresponding regression requirement and so forth. In other words, ecologically dangerous private debt enterprises will be paid off by the state in the Ministry of Finance. It will be responsible for the financial consequences of these businesses and will bring to bear the problems of debt collection, as it is stipulated in what I have quoted. The debtors themselves must bear responsibility for their debts, and those who have bribed today must be held accountable. This law cannot be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u78	Thank you. Victor Pinzenic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u79	And there are other reasons why this law cannot be adopted. Let the people know what this law is.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u80	Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u81	Dear colleagues! First, Carmazin noted the inaccuracies that came from the rostrum, which essentially translates into the state budget the cost of maintaining businesses. And this law is contrary to the basic laws adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I recall that the State does not respond to the obligations of enterprises. These are basic principles that we have laid down in the Civil Code and in other laws of Ukraine. This law cannot be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u82	I note that this is primarily about the environmental safety of the population. That's what this is about. So there's no sudden disconnection of these objects, which we've had on many occasions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u83	Andrew Klovev, please. Head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u84	Dear colleagues! This law is purely a technical law. You know that you have a huge problem when the water supply, electricity, enterprise and utilities and state forms of property are cut off and only our population suffers from it. That is why the term “ecological armor” is included. That is, this environmental armor, if an enterprise falls under this environmental armor, i.e. the status of that enterprise, the energy supply undertaking has no right to exclude it. That is the basic essence of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, National Deputy Mother, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u86	I want, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to uphold this law and turn the MPs into the position that has taken place in industry today. Dozens of businesses have very environmentally hazardous production. Disengagement is not always justified, any disconnection can be worth 100 times as much as the economy that is going on electricity today. The second thing is, what's the point of doing it? But the armor that would guarantee that businesses are environmentally hazardous is necessarily in the country, and it was in the Soviet Union once, and then it was broken. A dangerous weapon must be behind every enterprise that has environmental security. So I think, and I ask MPs, support the law, or maybe in the second reading, you'll be able to determine what to provide and how to provide security.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u87	I'm betting on the adoption vote on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Electricity Act. Please vote. [[17:04:22]] For 246 For -246, the decision is made. I'll bet you a vote. The factions, please. I am introducing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act. [[on the use of congregation funds for pollution]] Sergey Anatolyovich Matvienkov, please, dry leftover.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, I won't be long to speak, I'll say one thing. For two days, we have been looking at environmental issues here. Much of the problem that we have today with the environment is what we are talking more about than we are specifically dealing with the mechanism, the system of payments that exists today. So what's the mechanism? What we pay today, 10 per cent remain on the ground, 10 per cent -- the city, the area and 70 per cent go to the center -- is a paradoxical situation: the dirtier the environment on the ground, the more the centre benefits, the more the centre benefits, the more the money to use it. We did an experiment in the metallurgical complex and tried to change the system. They returned, left 70 on the ground under a specific programme, a specifically approved exercise responsible for the use of each bracelet, and placed 10, 10 and 10. This has had a huge effect already on the steel industry, so I can give you some examples. When steel production has increased by 9 million, emissions have increased, almost twice. Each metallurgical enterprise has carried out specific work during this time. I mean, the combination of Ilyach introduced the Spine program -- 20 million of them have set up filters. Austal put electro-filters in domain furnace number 4. They put up a sleeve, i.e., a specific work related to the environment. We therefore propose that, in order to bring this work to life, not to talk, but to revive, to move it into a concrete way, to shift it to industrial enterprises such as metallurgical, coxochemical, chemical, mining, coal and cement industries. We therefore propose that the bill be adopted on first reading as a basis so that some points can be finalized, but that we move from words to the matter in order to start dealing specifically with the environment rather than with speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u89	John the Rabbit, then the question. John the Rabbit. Sergey Matvienkov, you and Assadchev agree with the question while you're there.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u90	Ivan Hare, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Movement. The essence of the proposal of the people's deputies is to change the mechanism for the coming and use of funds for environmental protection in Ukraine. It's offered 70 percent of the pollution for certain industries, it's metallurgy, it's a chemical industry, it's a cement industry, and so on, leave it at the factory. What does that actually mean? This means that the State budget will not receive 50 million dollars. This means that 30 percent will be reduced essentially by the share of the fund in the areas, that is to say, to actually take away the possibilities of solving national programs, district programs, and thus drive the situation into a dead end. You know, we have national programs like the environmental network, like the protection of the Azov and the Black Sea, like the toxic waste management program. So all these programs are going to be threatened if you take this mechanism. I'm very surprised by the position of Mr. Matvienkov, who has come out and thrown himself into the hall, as if he were reluctant, that the situation today is that 70 percent is taking the center, and the rest is 30 percent is distributed between the area and the base level, that is, the village, the city, and so on. Mr. Matvienkov, read the law and you will see that the Republican Fund comes at exactly 30 percent, 50 percent comes to the area, and 20 percent comes to the basic level — the village, the village, and the city. So please use information, not to deceive MPs, but to really clarify the situation. Now, what does that mean in economic terms? That means we're giving benefits to a group of enterprises that are not clearly defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u91	Ivan Alexandrovich, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u92	Now, now. What is an enterprise, for example, a metallurgical industry? What are chemical industries? You can import whatever you want under these enterprises, and it's going to be kind of free zones through which all kinds of things will go through. I don't think it's a good mechanism to let us solve these problems. Therefore, honourable deputies, the solution to this problem must be found in another. The parliamentary hearings on Monday were just on the way. We're proposing instead of a fund to protect the environment in the Republic, instead of such funds at the district level and at the base level, to set up a so-called national environmental fund that would raise funds for the special use of natural resources that would raise funds from land pollution and then lend and subsidize projects, and not just that, let's give up the funds. Prices for metallurgical products, prices for chemical products to set the right ones, and then we'll talk about solving the problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u93	National Deputy Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u94	That's why I'm here. Let me finish. So what I want to do is I want to talk to the representatives of the regions, to the other representatives, and I want you to think that the district fund is going to be destroyed, and the environmental fund is going to be destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u96	Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is a serious question, and please don't interrupt me. How much can we talk about this all the time? There's a rule, that's all. I'm reporting from the committee. The committee considered the bill, and I am obliged to report the position of the committee. We need to discuss the bill in a professional way, not just chasing how we chase: three minutes -- and go, and go. And then we don't know what to vote for.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u97	Ivan Aleksandrovich, don't spend your money in a bell tower, please. National Deputy Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u98	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't spend a couple of bucks, you're the one who's spending it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u99	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u100	Dear friends, first of all, this bill immediately changes the budget, and it's rightly said that, in fact, the environmental fund is being eliminated this time. Secondly, the distribution of the environmental fund today is 30 percent the State budget, and 70 are local budgets, not as Matthew's reporter said. Now, what happens is if you leave it at the company, it's not going to be budget money anymore, because budget money can at least be controlled. They can be controlled by the Court of Auditors, the KRU. Once you leave them at the company, it's not budget money, and then the company decides whether environmental programs decide whether or not non-environmental programs -- no one will check them, can't, and can't apply any sanctions either. On the other hand, no one prohibits businesses from joining local environmental funds programs and engaging them in their businesses and doing these environmental programs, please. This can also be done, but it is under the control of the local council and local authorities. Why are we breaking this now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u101	Vladimir Boyko now. Dear colleagues, I beg you, we will vote. Please, Vladimir Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u102	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. I go to the rostrum very rarely, but when Ivan Zaec speaks, and when he talks about ecology, I assure you, every respectable deputy from the districts, from the mayors and from those who live in the cities of Dnepropetrovsk, Harikov, Zaporozhye, Mariupol, Curve Horn and so on, will vote for these things. When they tell us that this money is going away, sorry if they come here to Kiev, we'll never find a penny here in our lives, it's literally a "flight" and we've been going on the road, and in all cases, there's clear control and what's been done in the mining complex over the past three years proves that if we really leave this money in the factories, not just the metalworks, but also in the TES, where there are environmental issues, it's really money that's going to go to Ukraine to be cleaner air, it's cleaner the sea of Asia. I therefore ask to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u103	National Deputy Shevchuk, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u104	Sergey Shevchuk, NDP faction. Dear colleagues! The deputies of the past assembly may remember how the law on the features of the privatisation of the Illic plant was voted. At that time, proposals were made for environmental targets during privatization. Which was successfully rejected by the lobbyists of the bill. Today, the authors have moved on, offering us to adopt a law that can be boldly called the Law on the benefits of environmental polluters. I want to remind everyone that in Europe, in a civilized world, there is another principle that no one has ever denied, this principle means that the polluter pays, pays the state, pays the local citizens, pays those citizens who suffer from the fact that such enterprises receive huge profits. Thus, what we are offered today is nothing but a Mariupol invention that contradicts the international environmental situation and cannot vote in favour of such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u105	People's MP Rudenko, faction of SDPU, and we're going to vote. It's already in favour and against, and we'll make it clear and we'll vote right now. Well, two for, two against, that's impossible anymore, that's a reduced procedure. What difference does it make?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u106	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to say that the opinion of the environmental committee was ambiguous about this law. Second, it's not a tax on what we're talking about. And I have to say that today is a historic opportunity to find a compromise between industry and environmentalists. So I think you can convince environmentalists to compromise this law, but if they go to concessions and increase the coefficient that is being compensated today for environmental damage. I have to say that since 1995, compensations for environmental protection have not changed. So I suggest you write that in a resolution that if we can agree on a re-vote to raise at least twice the counting factor, we can go to this law in the first reading to adopt it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u107	I would like to vote on the adoption in the first reading of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act. Well, I get it, two "for"-- two "against," well, I can't. Well, Kravchenko insists, and others insist, so I can do it. I put it to a vote, let's determine, please. Well, what can I do? Freedom of Carmagine? And so there is always the freedom of Carmazin. [[17:17:27]] For 214 For 214. The decision is not taken. Now it's for the second one. But all motives are right. Please. You haven't accepted it. The law's passed. It's over. Please. We don't give a word to anyone, we make a deal. Now there's going to be a second law, for reasons of the second law, you're going to be asking questions. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act. Please. Is there a reporter for the People's Deputy Wolintz? Mikhail Yakovich, I ask a very brief argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u108	Dear National Deputies! As a result of the implementation of the non-profit coal mine and cut program, 72,000 workers were released, either out of operation or in preparation for the closure of 107 mines and four cuts, including prospective coal mines, which could achieve profitable work with small investment. Mine restructuring has largely not had a positive impact on the efficiency of the coal industry, the unresolved social issues, environmental protection and investment problems, the creation of new jobs, the lack of technical rearming and increased profitability of the sector, the timely payment of wages, and so on. The government has created artificial obstacles to the enforcement of existing legislation, including the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act. According to article 14 of the Pension Insurance Act, workers who are employed in underground and open mining and metallurgy are directly employed in underground open mining work, including the special composition of mining parts for coal, slate, ore and other useful fossils for the construction of mines and mines and in metallurgy for the list of jobs and professions approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine have the right to retire regardless of age if they have been employed in these jobs for at least 25 years. And the workers of the leading professions in these jobs, the cleaning workers, the passersby, the thugs on the hammers, the miners. cars, steel mills and miners, agglomerators, hot-rollers, provided they've been busy on these jobs for at least 20 years. Some of the mines that were released worked on underground and open mining for coal mining, including a special warehouse of mining parts for 23 or 24 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u109	Let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u110	I'm done. And the workers of the leading processes on these robots, the workers of the clean-up blast, the passersby, the thugs on the bumper hammers, the miners of the rescue machines, are just under 20 years old. During the last period of its activities, a particular category of miners worked, not on active mines, but on mining enterprises that were subject to restructuring. But regional social security agencies don't include this job as an income tax. Taking into account the foregoing and in accordance with article 58 of the Constitution of Ukraine, where it is stipulated that laws and other legal acts do not have a retroactive effect at a time other than when they soften or cancel the responsibility of a person is considered necessary with regard to the distribution of the characteristics and pensions of workers engaged in underground open mining works on mines that are restructured or in the phase of liquidation and preparation for it. This bill, supported by the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. However, we agreed in the Ministry of Labour that for the second reading there would be a viable bill, which provides that the benefits would be used by miners working in restructured mines, on underground jobs for up to 2 years, and this mechanism would be written separately. Dear National Deputies! Please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u111	Dear National Deputies! The committee also proposes to take on a foundation. If there's no objection, I'll put the vote on this project as a basis. We'll continue to study. Turn on the "Race" system, please. [[17:22:29]] For-198 For 198, factions, no decision is made. For reasons, please, Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u112	I, Vladimir Mihajlovich, would still like to return and draw the attention of the people's deputies to Bill 209, the previous one, to the protection of the environment. One minute, one minute, I'll make you an offer! The point is that it cannot be so easy, especially after such serious debates that took place on Monday in order to protect the environment, it is not easy to do so. That's why I have a proposal, and I have a point for Hare, and I have a point for those people who make it, so I'm asking him to put it to the vote for a re-reading and go back to the committee and so on. I ask you to put to the vote for the re-reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, I have an offer that will get you all. Let's not all be able to vote and decide on the draft amendments to the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act, which National Deputy Volinec informed, let me put it to the vote again, and then we'll go back and define this document. I'll bet you a vote. Calm down! I'm betting on the adoption vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act. People's deputies, please identify yourself. [[17:24:16]] For a hundred and The 94th decision is not taken. Please, Yuri Carmazin. Vladimir Dmitrovitch, we've been voting, and now the hall will be determined, so what are you. Please, let's do our work with tolerance. Please, George Carmazin, and let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u114	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to violate the Rules, the Pension Insurance Act is under consideration, the amendment of this Act, in particular the article itself, article 14 of this Act, "The Specialities of Pension Insurance. It's only about mines, about supplementing the law, just those mines that are restructured or in the process of eliminating and preparing for it. The point is that the miners who hit those mines are not to blame. We've brought this system over the past 70 years, over the 11 years, to the system that these mines are being restructured. And once so, we must adopt this law. Maybe someone didn't get it, but this has to be accepted, this is social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u115	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko. Well, now that you insist, I'll put it to a vote. All I'm asking is, by voting, we'll decide everything, we've got a lot of decisions to make, dear colleagues. Nobody rapes anyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u116	Thank you. The Communist faction, the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues! A document is put twice to a vote, and I understand that twice it becomes a hostage of a completely different document, because we vote one and we think of the other. There's a problem. The point is that in the workplace, there's a miner's internship on a working mine, on that mine that's being built, and that's the mine that goes under closure, and there's a problem. And there's every possibility of resolving this situation in preparation for second reading, but there is a problem and we need to move forward in its solution. And I would like to ask my distinguished colleagues to support this document now in the first reading. I am absolutely convinced that with the Ministry of Labour we will find compromise in order to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u117	I'm betting on the adoption vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act. You just heard the arguments. [[17:27:00]] For 222 Let's pack it up, think about it. Don't you have to! Well, then we'll put it in if we have to. Have a seat. You didn't vote. Dear colleagues, as we agreed. Come on, we've already voted, we've been voting, we've been voting, we've got respectable colleagues. On re-reading the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act. [[on the use of congregation funds for pollution]] I'll bet you a vote. [[17:27:40]] For 249 Decision taken. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, is being announced for consideration. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. From the committee, would you please? Who's going to do the show? Please, Valentin Alexiyovich Anastasiaev. Now, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u118	Valentin Anastassiev, Communist faction, Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons. Respectable Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished people's deputies, Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, has considered a bill amending the Law on the Status of Veterans of War, the Guarantee of Their Social Protection, submitted by the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Kiwalov. The bill proposes that the status of war be established for participants in hostilities who have been disabled as a result of a general illness or labour injury. With regard to the injury, the Committee considers that this category of citizens is defined by Ukrainian legislation on the protection of tours and social insurance and cannot therefore be taken into account in the bill. In addition, labour injury is not related to hostilities on the front of the guard. With regard to persons with disabilities who were affected by a general illness, the Committee believes that this category should be supported. There's a direct connection. It is also a category of people who are now 76-80 years of age and older. The Committee therefore suggested that the draft should be adopted on first reading. And if the author has no objection to the exclusion of work injury, the law can generally be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u119	Committee head Polishchuk Mikola Efremovich, please. Well, there are people who raise their hand. Well, not right now, Polishchuk, one minute. Well, have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u120	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I would like to say that this bill has been discussed in detail at the Health Committee, and it has been said that this bill cannot be adopted for two reasons, first of all, that disability occurs in most people as an age. This is not a direct link, but it is a mediocre link. Indirect. Median communication. Secondly, today we cannot distinguish between the wound of a two-year-old from the wound of a 40-year-old. In Ukraine today, I can say as an expert in the 20s, the number of participants in the war has decreased, but the number of disabled people in the war has increased dramatically. Today, we will have a significant increase in unwarfavorablely disabled people. All those kids who were, they're gonna get witnesses that he was wearing partisan porridge when he was 3-5 years old, and he's gonna be a cripple. This law cannot be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are two positions. The first is the position of the Professional Committee and the position of the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood. I'll put it to a vote. Peter Stepanovich, please, one second. Please, Cibenko Peter Stepanovich. We have a lot of decisions, we have to vote, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u122	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons, Communist factions, Cibenko. I'd just like to make it clear to my colleague who just said that it's not about the participants in the war, it's about the participants in the fighting. So those you're talking about for 3-5 years are not the ones you're talking about. This is about the participants in the fighting. This is the first time. Secondly, once again, I emphasize that the youngest participant in the battles of the Great Homeland War today is 75 or 76. And thirdly, dear colleagues, we're going with you to the time when we're going to celebrate a series of events, 60-year-old Jubilee related to the history of the Great Homeland War. And I'd like you and I to pay our respects to these people, and we'll find a way to settle this question, and I ask you to support this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u123	Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u124	Besides what Deputy Polishchuk said, I completely agree. Indeed, the law that pushes us into a deadlock helps us to speculate and criminalize the expert sphere. I want to remind you one more thing, the law is unconstitutional for the reason that it introduces its deputy, which, according to the Constitution, should constitute a parliamentary mandate. As a result, we no longer have the right to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u125	Thank you. Polczyk Mikola Efremovich, a replica, please. Just don't call your last name again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u126	Honorable National MPs. I'd like to say, today, 20 years as my chief expert in forensics. As today's participants in the fighting, all the archives in Russia, the three witnesses are there, say he was a participant, show a cutter and he's already a participant in the fighting. This law cannot be adopted. Because it doesn't make sense, understand. There's a biological age, after 70 years, most people can be transferred to disability, we're going to be the whole country of pensioners, disabled people and polygamists, and someone needs to work and feed this people.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u127	Dear colleagues, you've heard the argument. I'll put it to a vote, given the argument you're going to vote on. I'm betting on a vote on adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. [[17:34:33]] For 277 For 277, sir. Decision taken. For reasons, please, Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u128	Kravchenko, Communist faction. Vladimir Mihajlovich, we're here on Bill 2045. Some people's deputies did not understand the point of putting the matter to a vote. I therefore make a tremendous offer: to put to the vote question 2045 on pension insurance. It's about miners who fell into the mines under restructuring. Please put to the vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u129	Dear colleagues, I'm putting you to the vote so you can make a conscious choice. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act, reported by our colleague Volinec. I'm betting on a vote on adoption on the basis of this bill's draft. [[17:35:47.]] For-286 for 286. Decision taken. I would like to announce a draft decision on the annulment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Responsibility of Suppliers for the Production and Implementation of Inadequate, Hazardous Produce. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill was adopted on first reading in 1999. Since then, laws and bills have been passed on first reading, which have incorporated the main provisions of the bill under consideration. Those who have not entered into existing laws or bills are either in contravention of the laws already adopted or no longer conform to the concept that the developer is pursuing today. In order to open the way to new draft laws, it is proposed that the order for the first reading of the bill be repealed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u131	I'm betting on a vote on the adoption on the basis of the draft Ordinance on the Cancellation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Responsibility of Suppliers for the Production and Implementation of Inadequate, Dangerous Produce. The committee's proposal is well known to you, please vote. [[17:37:11]] For 240 For 240. If there are no comments, no additions, no changes, I'm voting on the adoption of this draft, this regulation as a regulation. Please vote [[17:37:35]] For 260 Decision taken. I would like to consider a draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt, on the basis of a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Automobiles Act. The committee proposes to vote on the draft regulation as a whole by revoking the relevant previous decision. Is there no objection? I would like to vote on the whole draft Decision on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Promotion of the Production of Vehicles in Ukraine. Please vote. [[17:38:31]] For 375 Decision taken. I am introducing a draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Decree of 8 April 1993 No. 30-93 on State supervision of compliance with standards, norms and rules and responsibility for violations. The committee proposes to take a decision immediately on the annulment of the document. There's no objection. I'm betting on the vote on the adoption of the draft Order No. 1169/P1 as a whole. Please vote. [[17:39:24]] For three hundred Decision taken. I am introducing a draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Collective Gardening Act. This is a committee proposal. He proposes to take such a decision. Ivan Fedorovich, should we take her? The committee makes such an offer. I am voting on the whole draft decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the draft law of Ukraine on collective gardening. [[17:40:15.]] For 367 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Introducing your consideration, we're moving on to the section "Review of previously unsupported issues." At the committee's suggestion. Please, from the procedure John Adamovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u132	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! We often allow ourselves to be like this, to return to previously unsupported issues. This means that no matter how much we reject the law, if anyone has a desire, he will make it as long as we do not accept it. And the Rules do not allow that. The Rules state clearly and clearly that if the law is not supported in this session, it cannot be considered. And so the wish of the committees is the wish of the committees, but we have an internal law that doesn't allow us to make of the Supreme Council, so I'm sorry. I don't want to use an uncensored word. It's not accepted. We'll bring it in next time. We don't take the next one, we bring it in again. Vladimir Mikhailovich, let's not set up the Supreme Council. In a few days, there will be a third session, these bills will be introduced for the third session, and we can legally consider them. Let's skip this chapter today. Moreover, we have something to work on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u133	Dear colleagues and distinguished Adam Ivanovich! You're absolutely right, but let's actually look at things. Dear colleagues! When did we not make these decisions? When we had a break in political activity. And then it wasn't because they didn't want to make those decisions, it was just "the wall went to the wall." So let's actually call things things. Please, People's Deputy Melniczuk. If you don't mind, dear fellows, we're going to keep working, we're putting this chapter aside, and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u134	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I support the fact that the people's deputy Martinyuk here and in principle is fair. But please, Bill 2092, 1052, which was not considered at all, were simply not considered, honourable ones, not that previously not supported! According to Vladimir Mikhailovich, there was no line to them. I don't know why they're in this chapter. This is a question that we haven't considered at all, and in the list they've come up as questions that were not supported in this room. I would ask the Secretariat to generalize this question, in general, why they came here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u135	Dear colleagues, since there is a objection, I have this proposal to assign to the Secretariat now, maybe by chance some document has gone to a section previously not supported, we're putting it off. Now let's go to the chapter on inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Is there no objection? I put to the vote a draft bill on the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending article 64 of the Law on Banking and Banking. Huh? We've already considered it. I'm sorry, we looked at it. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils. [[on the recall of MPs]] Boris Jakovitch, please Bespallian. Aah! I'll put it to a vote. Please vote on the inclusion in the agenda and the adoption of the decision number 2176, here are two documents, 2176-1 - Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils. [[on the recall of MPs]] Please vote. [[17:44:30.]] For 207 For - 207, no decision is made. Don't you get it? Once again, I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils. [[on the recall of MPs]] Do you understand? Please make up your mind. [[17:45:04]] For 222 It's the people's deputy, Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u136	Dear colleagues, I am asking you to support this law, which is the motivation. The point is that the Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils makes it much easier to call off deputies. In fact, it is very easy today to initiate, at the expense of local funds, a procedure for recalling deputies. And any member of the local council who takes an independent position can be very easily recalled now. But only one who is protected can protect people. And this is, well, such an urgent request from local councillors from all over Ukraine, who are mass-approaching this procedure to make it even more controlled. And this is a matter of urgency, because in Ukraine such a procedure of pressure has already begun on local councillors. There are enough threats here, they say we'll call you off if you're not puppets. So I'm still asking you to support and integrate into the agenda and accept as a basis for this project that supports both the committee and the Science and Experiment Authority, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u137	Thank you. National Deputy Shevchuk, NDP faction. I see, I see. Let's re-vote and not agitate.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u138	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, you know, when we're talking about the MP Corps, it's not just about us with you, it's about the deputies of the Supreme Council. These two bills, which are proposed to be included in the agenda, apply to our fellow members of the councils of different levels, which, unlike us, are completely unprotected in terms of their employment, so the authors of the two bills propose completely reasonable, balanced decisions on this important issue. Therefore, the proposal from the NDP faction must include these issues and demonstrate such parliamentary collegiality among us and members of the councils of different levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u139	Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you on behalf of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, and I would like to ask you to reflect on one of these. You know, they're practically firing deputies today, and we can't, on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision to protect them. You know they don't have any guarantees because we took them away. And today, under the pressure of MPs, they are still intimidated by the possibility of being called off. So please, let's support our colleagues somehow. That doesn't mean that we support the standards of authors of a law, but by putting it into the agenda, we vote for the first reading, and then we work on it. I ask you to support inclusion in the agenda and consider this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u141	Yuri Carmazin. Dear colleagues, I remind you that we have 10 minutes left, so let's not agitate, but vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u142	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is very important. The question is about the guarantees of parliamentary activity. Should he be called off or not? There must also be a national deputy in Ukraine. And that's what voters are saying today, because today many of the deputies in this room have come from 251 constituencies, as we call all the Canary and other islands. Thus, these laws need to be amended and amended by the Constitution on appeals and deputies who do not carry out their duties as Ukrainian national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u143	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u144	Vladimir Bondarenko, Our Ukraine. As one of the authors of these proposals, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today's law gives us the right to the second day after the election, the second day after the election, to start the recall procedure. A person hasn't started his program yet, showing him nothing, collecting several signatures, initiating a group, and then thousands of people are calling a deputy there, Kiyevrada, or some other council entirely without any reason. Moreover, this is done at the expense of the State Budget. So this bill sets up a moratorium on the first year's withdrawal, a moratorium on calling back at the end of the call, and so forth. That is, a normal bill that regulates the treatment of these people, who are members of local councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the arguments have been made. National MP Baranowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u146	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The fact is, there is a situation on local councils today where certain political powers of MPs are being chased into local factions. What we're doing here is there. And these people are either going to a faction where you don't want to go, or tomorrow you're going to get rid of the MP's mandate as a local councilman. So they really need to be supported and protected. Let's protect them, they're our colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u147	I am betting on the vote on inclusion, honourable colleagues, the agenda and the adoption of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils on the Calling of Deputies. [[17:51:06]] For 271 Let's get to it. I ask only for one minute to make an argument and vote. Please, Boris Jakovitch and Kirilenka Viacheslava prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u148	Boris Bespalij, State Building Committee and Local Self - Government Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank you very much for your support in bringing this matter up. But the discussion, in fact, has already taken place. So all I had to do was prove the position of the committee. There are two bills: 2176 and 2176-1. They're alternatives. The committee proposes to support the first - 2176. It doesn't cancel, in principle, the institution of recalling members of the local councils, but it makes this procedure so difficult that it's only in justified cases, for example, when a violation of the law is already established by the court. In these cases, of course, such a right should be. Well, it's also not immediately translated into the local budget. The first stage is done by initiators, and the local budget is only the last stage when the process is said to have gone. Project 21.76-1, he suggests, he's a little radical, maybe a little too early to do so, completely cancel the procedure for recalling members of the local council, because this rule is more controversial, I think we can ask the question and so, but a little bit later, and now in order to avoid collisions, it feels like more support and can get the 21.76 project that I'm asking for support on the ground.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u149	Is there no objection? I'm voting for acceptance on the basis of document number number, please cancel. Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u150	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear friends! Let's just calm down a little bit and move away from politics, we can't pass laws on a political situation, it's a rule that needs to work all the time, regardless of the situation, from someone who looks at things. Look what we're doing. You can't call off the City Council. Excuse me if he doesn't work, if he's a divorcée, if there's no normal mechanism. Second moment. Which means we can't fire him, now we're going to consider the second law until they give their consent. And if he's not going to work, if he's doing some things for which he should be fired. What's with the city council? I believe that these bills cannot be voted in favour and that regulations cannot be prescribed in the law under a political situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u151	I'm forced to make myself clear here because I must have stolen it. First of all, we're not talking about work right now, so the second part of Sergio Anatoliyevich's emotional replica is probably related to the fact that the previous vote, for other laws, he hasn't calmed down a bit yet. It's not about work, secondly, no one's offering a veto to call off the Kiyevrada deputies, especially in general. It is only suggested that this procedure be justified so that three men cannot assemble and immediately put this vote at the local expense, that is, if you look closely at the comparative table, the appeal procedure remains, but there are fundamental grounds for doing so. So not only is the court's decision, but others may be the basis for, for example, a violation of the law, of course, and the Science and Experimental Authority, and all the local councils, all the associations support it. And I'm still asking you to support us, so that we don't get overwhelmed by emotion here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u152	I am betting on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils under heading 2176. The Bespalogo and Bondarenko People's Deputies Project. [[17:55:29]] For 259. For 259. Decision taken. National Deputy Sulkovsky. With a motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u153	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. At the morning session, two alternative projects were considered in 2156 and 2156-1. 2156-1 won more votes. Neither the first nor the second received a corresponding number of votes. So, dear friends and Vladimir Mikhailovich, please put to the vote and I urge you to support the project that was submitted by Boris Tarasyuk, Zarubinski, Zvarič, 2156-1. I urge you to support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u154	Thank you. National MP Hara. I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u155	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, it is regrettable that we have missed a whole section of normal and enforced laws. Among them are two: 0909 on holidays and 0912 on monetary income indexing, which from Thursday to Thursday, from July to Thursday, cannot be accepted. I ask that they return to the vote, they raise no doubts, and finally accept them.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's get to this chapter right now. And then, if there's any will, then we'll come back. National Deputy Teryohin. We're wasting time, we're moving.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u157	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! Today, the President of Ukraine signed the Law on Taxation of Business Income in a New Version, which we adopted under the budgetary process. Unfortunately, we were unable to pass a complex VAT law. And there's been a pretty terrible conflict in the area of financial rent taxation, where, if we don't accept it as a whole today, as recommended by our committee, bill 2634, the lysins will pay 40 percent of VAT for January, and the lysingos will pay 20, even more than they pay today. Therefore, it is a very big request to make it and to accept it as a whole. This is our committee's request. Sergey Vasilovich Burjak is probably going to fill me in. This is a bill that is fully in line with the Ministry of Finance and the State Tax Administration of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u158	We'll get to him and, uh, I think we'll take it today if it's your will. We continue for 15 minutes and then maybe another 15. Please, National Deputy MacKeenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u159	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The committee is requested to include in the agenda and decide on Bill 2362 on special economic zones and special investment arrangements in the Donetsk region. The committee considered the matter, decided on November 12th, and asked him to support it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u160	We'll have a turn, then we'll have a vote. Dear colleagues! I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and adoption of the draft Act amending article 34 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils on the Liberation of Offices and Territorial Passage. It's a 2184 project. Please make up your mind. [[17:59:33]] For 235 We turned it on. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. No objections? I'm voting for acceptance as the basis for the 2184 project. This is a draft law amending article 34 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils on discharge and territorial passage. Please make up your mind. [[18:00:14]] For 245 Decision taken. I am betting on the vote on the inclusion in the agenda and the adoption of the draft law amending the Ukrainian law on the special economic zone of Carpathians. We have the initiator Ivan Mihovich. There's a committee decision. Suggests a base. But first we need to include it. I'm betting on voting for inclusion in the agenda and adoption. All right, let's go. We can't do it right now, dear colleagues. Two we can't. There is, there is. We're going to vote now. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and the decision on the draft law amending the Ukrainian law on the special economic zone of Carpathians. [[18:01:20]] For 310 National MP Baranowski for reasons, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u161	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I do not remember this law passing through the budget committee. It affects budget formation today, so I don't think it's the right thing to do, we vote, we make proposals, we accept, and they predict certain benefits, so it affects the budget. And I would ask, how was the arrangement with you so that without a budget committee, such laws should not be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u162	Honorary colleagues, all the bills that have economic grounds, are registered on the budget committee as well. Then we'll have to figure it out. Carmazine, please. Dear colleagues, I ask you to use the precious time you have left.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u163	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished people of Ukraine! Today, under the current system, all the free economic zones in Ukraine are working as a vacuum cleaner, that is, they are just taking money out of Ukraine and camouflage their activities. Each of these free economic zones can be said by the name of which financial and clan group. That is why it is easy to make and vote without serious reasons, and without statements by the factions and committees there is absolutely no way. We've put everything in order of the day. You can't continue to vote for such a bill. Thank you. Nothing to close the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u164	Please, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economics, your position on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u165	Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u166	Now let's define by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u167	I would ask you to consider that this bill, which is being proposed, completely changes the ideology and functioning of the special economic zone. It allows you to drive goods from the free economic zone without paying taxes, or at the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u168	National Deputy Terjohin, then Ivan Mihovich's argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, the reason is that this bill has now been reported on behalf of the government, plus it was introduced for the first time in the history of taxation of our free zones, that benefits are paid not only by goods but by jobs and services. So extraterritorial benefits. Imagine a bank that will stand somewhere in Zakarpatt and will not be taxed at all on financial or services. Such a decision cannot be made at such a pace. I would very much like to ask the honourable presiding officer to pass this bill through the agreement of the budgetary and financial committee and only after that would he be put to the deliberations of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u170	Ivan Mihovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, here comes some misinformation. The point is that this bill is intended to avoid double taxation, it is entirely in line with the Act on the Fundamentals of Functioning of Social Economic Zones and the Law on External Economic Activity. The zone covers a small area, has nine economic operators, has proven effective in a few years, the amount of investment claimed is $60 million, of which 15 million have been won, 20 million have already been invested in government budgets of different levels, and it is not about the creation of benefits, but about the elimination of discrimination and the favourable conditions for this small depressive area that has suffered the devastating effects of two floods, which is in a small town near Chop. So there's some misinformation. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u172	National Deputy Ivancho, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u173	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The question is included in the agenda and I'm making an offer to consider it in the working order with a discussion at the third session of the Supreme Council, both by Donetsk and by Zakarpat.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u174	The position of the author, one of the authors, will be followed. Dear colleagues. Is there no objection? With regard to the proposal of the Macedonian National Deputy regarding Project 2362, this is a bill amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Special Economic Zones and Special Investment Regime in the Donetsk Region on taxation of goods produced in the area of the common economic zone. Should we put it to a vote? Well, I see a denial. Let's turn it on, and then we'll look at it together. Dear colleagues, just put it in for consideration, let's do it. I'm betting on the vote on the inclusion in the agenda and the adoption of the draft law under number 2362, which I've just heard. [[18:08:03]] For 133 Decision taken. Please, Rodionov Mikhail Kuzmić. Well, there are motives. I want motive, well, respectable colleagues, well.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u175	Dear National Deputies! The adoption of such a law is not for any reason. I'll give you the data, the Ministry of Finance. For example, during the lifetime of the special economic zone Donetsk, 5 million were added to the State Budget in the north of 2002. 767 and 400 Carbovanans, but the State budget's losses on taxes, taxes, amount to 98 million. 944 thousand. 300 greaves. So giving some extra benefits, well, it's not clear what it's going to be. So what I'm saying is, this is a special economic zone, it puts one bracelet in the budget, and it takes away 16 bracelets.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u176	Mikhail Kuzmich, we are not looking at this document. We're not looking at him right now. Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u177	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm very sorry and I understand. Therefore, I ask you to follow the Rules and the order of the day. Now there will be tens of two or three national MPs in this room who will ask you, insist, run to the rostrum, and so on -- put on the one, the other, the tenth or the fifteenth bill. You shouldn't do that. So let's go calmly, finish today's vote. In two weeks, we'll vote again. There's no law going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u178	Yeah. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the draft law amending some of Ukraine's tax laws on accounting reporting. We're on schedule. Please vote. [[18:10:38]] For 284 Decision taken. Please, Terjehohin. We need to vote on a project in the Caribbean crisis, otherwise it will lose its relevance altogether.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is aimed at greatly simplifying the accounting of citizens' income tax. The committee invites him to accept it in the first reading, and in February we will offer a second reading to you. And I would ask very much for the next bill to be considered, for without it there will be a huge commission for VAT. Thank you. This one in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u180	If there is no objection, I am voting on the adoption of a draft law amending some of Ukraine's tax laws on accounting reporting. Please vote. [[18:11:43]] For 309 Decision taken. I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda and the decision on the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax on Lease Operations. Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u181	Thank you. Very short, 10 seconds. If we don't accept this bill, which is in line with what we've adopted recently with corporate income tax, and lysing owners, and lysingos will pay twice as much tax, that is, double taxation, which is not useful to the village, to the airplanes, or to the moving warehouse, and so on. Please accept very much in the first reading and in general today and send it to the President for signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, if there is no objection, I am voting on the adoption of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Value Added Tax on Lease Operations. And you've already included, we've voted. There were 307 votes. If I'm not mistaken. We voted it out. You didn't turn it on? We voted on it. Let's vote again, and the Secretariat will check. I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda and the decision on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax on Lease Operations. But we included it. [[18:13:45]] For the 320. For 320. Decision taken. I'm voting on the adoption as the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukraine Act to add. Change the vote, Semenyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u183	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I understand that the end of the day is over, but let Terjehochin tell us what this law is and how much will be lost for the budget, so that we know for a little bit. Let him explain for a moment, because without discussion we can't actually accept, let him say what the law is and whether the Committee on Budgets has concluded.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u184	Please, Sergey Terjochin, about the contents of this document. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u185	Respectable national MPs, a very simple content, are introduced by the same standard of financial leasing that was adopted by us in the Law on Corporate Income Taxation. I'm saying for the protocol, we specifically suggest that we introduce a standard whereby old leases are taxed on the rules that existed before so that there are no problems with the transition to a new system. This new system encourages an increase in financial leasing, financial rent in Ukraine, and does not affect the income or expenditure of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u186	Shall we vote, Your Honor? I'm voting for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on added-value tax for leasing operations. Please vote. [[18:15:33]] For 305 For 305. Decision taken. I'm voting for inclusion in the agenda and acceptance. There's a denial, I can't, well, there's a denial, well, what I can do. Okay. I'm betting on a vote on adoption as a whole as a bill of the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on added-value tax for ice-skating operations. Please vote. Well, we've voted, we've already had cases like this, let's be done with each other. [[18:16:11]] For 280 For 280. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and the adoption of a decision on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Land Code on the settlement of land relations in rural areas. People's deputy, Shibko. Please calm down, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u187	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I can't believe it, and I'll never believe it, but there's a rumor that the budget you signed doesn't match what we voted on. I can never believe it, but it is, really, whether it was an evil intention or not, whether we were angry that we voted for judges in kilograms. This was done in general at about 6: 15 p.m. It wasn't even in Frost. Why are you doing this? Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u188	Dear colleagues! We'll be done in a minute. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to give me an opportunity to rehabilitate myself. I signed the 2003 State Budget under all the visas and resolutions that were, including the government. And I trust the committee, everyone in the board, I couldn't falsify this document. So let's think about it. I want us to vote, to come to a resolution on the Caribbean crisis, to finish the job. That's why I'm pulling it up because it's going to make no sense. And you can't jump. This is how I vote on the inclusion in the agenda and the adoption of a decision on the draft Act amending the Ukraine Land Code on Land Relations of Non-State Agricultural Enterprises. Please determine your national MPs. [[6:18:30.]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! Anatoly Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u189	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address you as presiding officer. This hall already knows precedents when it voted after 18.15 in favour of laws, and then they were invalid laws because they were adopted in violation of the Rules. Please. It's not because I don't want to vote for the Caribbean crisis, it's because we put it. we create a precedent that then gives us the right to violate all the regulations. The minimum you have to do is vote in the session on the right to put this law to a vote. And that law, which was passed without such a procedure, has absolutely the right to be declared invalid. I ask you to abide by the Rules and not jeopardize the laws that have been voted upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u190	Sobole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u191	Sobolev, "Our Ukraine." Dear friends, I wish we didn't have a baby in these fights. The situation is related to a specific bill. If we don't settle the relationship with non-state agricultural enterprises by March of the month, about 1,400 businesses in Ukraine will get rid of the land because the Earth Code didn't regulate these relationships. So I would ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, not to violate the law, vote for 15 minutes to continue the session, to report on the remaining issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-16-m1.u192	Dear colleagues! Here, you see, they're all right. Unfortunately, for 15 minutes we have resumed the session. Time's up. So let's see, my fellow Members, we have 8 bills left to vote on, that tomorrow we will vote in favour of considering and taking decisions from these documents. If it's your will. No objections? I then declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you so much for your fruitful work. Tomorrow we'll resume the meeting at 10 o'clock. The question will be considered according to a defined list.
