ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your jobs and prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. There were 409 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we continue our consideration of matters according to the schedule of meetings. I am announcing a draft Act on State Support for Insurance and Export Credit. Out of procedure, please, National Deputy Kravchenko. Turn on the microphone. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u2	Thank you. Vladimir Mihajlovich, well, for 16 hours you planned for us to vote on a number of points that were not reported on the agenda. That's why I'm asking you. I thank all members of the people for supporting my draft regulation 3054 on the report of the Minister of Coal on the social and economic impact of the restructuring of the coal industry. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I have just returned from the meeting of the Fuel and Energy Committee, where the Minister informed the Committee of the restructuring that was taking place. I'll tell you the consequences will be too severe. A single decision to privatize coal mines. Therefore, I ask you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, there is a report of the Minister on the agenda for 20 years. I ask that we give a record order to put it on the agenda on Wednesday for hearing the report, and on Thursday we can take a decision on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u3	I ask the Secretariat to take this into account and make appropriate adjustments to the schedule of meetings for next week. Dear colleagues, we have agreed with you that if there are any proposals for further inclusion in the agenda, and they will be generalized, we will vote on them. If they are, the secretariat will. The Secretariat shows that there is nothing yet. What commission? Dear colleagues, I'm telling you, when it's done, we'll vote. There's nothing in the secretariat. Two bills: the draft Law on State Support for Insurance and Export Credit, as well as the draft Law on Debt Restructuring, which resulted from incomplete energy bills, the Cabinet of Ministers, came to me from a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers, who had just announced that he was asking to postpone the consideration of these bills. Is there no objection? They want to work with the committee to make the right adjustments. A draft Act amending Ukraine's legislative acts in connection with the adoption of Ukraine's Terrorism Act is being announced for consideration. Reporter is deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service Vladimir Ilchi Pristajko. Vladimir Illich, please be offered in five minutes. 5 on the question, report 5, 5 on the answer and 5 on the discussion? Is there no objection? Please. Who's in charge? Excuse me, Martinyuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u4	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Martinyuk, Communist faction. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I understand that this is a proposal for a committee of profile to go into this procedure. But if even with a reduced procedure, which we don't actually have, well, let's say there's two "for" to two "against." 2 and 24 four times 3 minutes is 12 minutes. How can we invest in five minutes?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u5	I said, "What's the committee's offer?" We will approach, we will always, when there is an insistence of the national MPs on the performance, realize its right. But your offer is heard. Yes, please. And Pavlovski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u6	Vladimir Mikhailovich, since you spoke today and talked about quality, I want to talk about the purity of the Rules. It's a very good initiative of the committee that when the law is being considered, right after it's adopted, it's the right changes and additions. But the point is, the Terrorism Act has not yet been adopted, and we don't know what the article is going to be. And here, by not adopting this law, we begin immediately, in advance, to consider the law of addition and change. We must first adopt at least a second reading of this law and then consider immediately thereafter. I mean, I don't mind that, it's a very good initiative of the committee, but we just have to do everything properly, consistently. I can't remember in nine years, so it's not the law, it's the change and the addition.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u7	Thank you. Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, please head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u8	The President of Ukraine introduced the draft Terrorism Act, and at the same time, the draft Law on correcting other legislative acts requested that it be considered together. They were considered together. The first draft in the first reading was adopted, and there is every possibility to consider this bill in the first reading. He raises many comments at the Committee on Law Enforcement. We're completely dividing them. But we think that when we prepare the bill for second reading, we can take it all into account and correct it, make it a normal law. There's nothing abnormal about this. I understand a colleague who denies it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u9	Thank you. Michael Antonovich, I think you're satisfied with the answer. Thank you. Please, Vladimir Ilchi, in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u10	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! On December 5, 2002, a bill by the President of Ukraine was submitted for consideration along with a draft of the Ukrainian Anti-Terrorism Act adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading. In fact, this project has already been considered in the session hall as an addition to the Terrorism Bill. The registration number for that bill was 2,360 and this, as you can see, was 2,360-1. The proposed changes to legislative acts proposed for your consideration are aimed at securing and implementing Ukraine’s international obligations in the fight against terrorism, warning and timely detection by terrorists who plan to carry out terrorist acts, and preventing the creation and financing of terrorist formations. To this end and to develop the provisions of the International Conference on the Prevention of Financing Terrorism signed by Ukraine in 2000, proposed amendments to article 7, paragraph 5, of the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities, provide for the possibility of operational sub-divisions to combat terrorism interacting with relevant foreign authorities and international anti-terrorist organizations. The amendments proposed in article 9 (1), part 1, paragraph 6, of the same law are intended to extend to 5 years the time frame for the introduction and storage of operational and search cases concerning persons whose involvement or involvement in terrorist activities, terrorist groups or terrorist organizations is relevant. At the same time, the general rule set out in article 9 of this law that they are not to be stored and that they should be destroyed during the operational and research activities of information relating to personal life, honor, human dignity, if they do not contain information on the conduct of prohibited acts. The bill also provides for the addition to the Ukrainian Law on Border Military Affairs of articles 6 and 7 on the right to exercise the powers of the authorities of State-Cordon Ukraine within the legislatively defined competence to combat terrorism, such as the carrying out of operational and reconnaissance activities and the purpose of obtaining information on the preparation for illegal crossing by terrorists of the State border, the conduct of appropriate measures aimed at preventing, detecting and halting the crossing by terrorists of the State border. Since its introduction to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the proposed bill has been carefully processed for today’s session, together with experts from the National Security and Defence Committee. Taking into account the comments and suggestions made by the Ukrainian national deputies, such as Levka Grigorovich Lukyanenka, Grigorija Korniyovich Krücheva, Vladimir Romanovic Moysik, Yuri Anatoliyovitch Karmazin, who came to the session hall on November 26 last year and expressed at the meeting of the Committee on Legal Protection on 15 January this year, as well as those sent by the Ukrainian National Deputies to the Committee on National Security and Defence, which was identified as the main in the processing of the project data. The drafting of the bill takes into account the conclusions, observations and proposals of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the National Bank of Ukraine as the subject of the law of the legislative initiative. In the drafting of the bill, the experience of the legislative settlement of the fight against terrorism in other countries, particularly the Russian Federation, has also been analysed. The Committee's comments on law enforcement law enforcement included the proposed draft amendments to article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities on the imminent threat of a terrorist act of operational investigation. When working on a detailed project, these comments are fully taken into account and this part of the bill is excluded. The National Bank of Ukraine has introduced a number of substantive observations before the bill was introduced with regard to the authorizations of terrorists to obtain information that is a bank’s secret, as well as the procedures for revealing such a secret to them. They are also taken into account, in conjunction with the experts of the committee, in the completed drafting of the draft, in view of the formulations contained in the current edition of the Ukrainian Law on Organising and Legal Basis for Combating Organized Crime, as well as the provisions of the Law on Prevention and Opposition of Legalization and Laundering of Proceeds from Crime, the responsibilities of financial monitoring entities, including banks, financial institutions, other organizations that carry out remittances of money. funds, etc., to immediately inform law enforcement authorities about financial transactions related to financing terrorist activities, terrorist acts, or terrorist acts. So it's actually about how to implement the existing legal principles in the area of combating terrorist financing. To sum it up, honourable national MPs, please adopt the law in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u11	Have a seat, please. We're looking at a reduced procedure. Have a seat, please. Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Sovkovic Vladimir Leonidovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u12	Deputies! The draft law amending Ukraine's legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Anti-Terrorism Act, which is now submitted for consideration in the first reading, is clearly and objectively necessary in terms of the harmonization of the provisions of the Anti-Terrorism Act, the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Banks and Banking Act, the Operational Search Activities Act, the Ukrainian Security Service and the Border Forces. The point is that this law was actually adopted by us in the first reading when we adopted the law in the first reading of "The Fight against Terrorism," but a purely legal error was made in view of the fact that the law that we are discussing today went with the supplement. In addition, the National Security and Defence Committee has made a number of observations, and these observations have been taken into account and excluded in general. Plus, there was a question of reconciliation with the judicial authorities, which this reflected. And in addition, a law was passed on money laundering, where they found their reflection of those points that were previously at issue in the Anti-Terrorist Act. As a result, the National Security and Defence Committee proposes that this law be adopted in the first reading. Thank you. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u13	Have a seat, please. Short-term discussion: two-in-a-row, two-in-a-row. Five national deputies were registered. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please. Yuri Anatolyovich! And he's on the phone with someone. Solomonine. Yuri Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u14	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, what do you pay attention to when you work with the materials accompanying this bill? The first is that at the very beginning of the drafting of the bill for consideration in the first reading, not all of the things that are so clear and simple have been worked out, but now we need to work on and correct the shortcomings that have been assumed before. And this confirms the thesis that's been happening here repeatedly, in the hall, that we don't work systematically, comprehensively, completely, in the preparation of draft laws like the anti-terrorist bill. That's the first one. The second thing I've pointed out is that the National Security and Defence Committee, the National Security and Defence Committee, unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept these additions and changes as a basis. And another equally important Committee on Legislative Security, law enforcement, likewise strongly proposes to reject the bill and gives some thought. And what the bill contradicts three articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, well, we know how the same article of the Constitution can be interpreted both on the one hand and on the other, and each article, like a medal, has two sides. God be with him! We will finally find out whether these articles conflict or not. But more interesting are the other comments. The bill proposes that the authorities of the Ukrainian Security Service be empowered to obtain immediate information and documents from financial, customs and other businesses, institutions and organizations, regardless of the form of ownership of operations, the state of the accounts, deposits, internal and external economic agreements and so on. People are good, first of all, it is to emphasize and give such authority. If the Ukrainian Security Service really works for Ukraine and represents the state of Ukraine, not some separate criminal clans that took over the Ukrainian service. I believe that the draft law can be adopted as a basis for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u15	Thank you. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u16	Yuri Carmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, Honourable People of Ukraine. I have before me the text of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 31: "Everyone is guaranteed the secret of correspondence, telephone conversations, telegraph and other correspondence. Exceptions can only be established by the court in cases provided for by law to prevent crime or to find out the truth when investigating a criminal case if information cannot be obtained by other means.” This is a quote from the 31st article of the Constitution. I am very glad that at least part of our proposals are included in this bill. But I would now like the bill and this bill to be fully brought into line with the Constitution. I would like to see those changes to the CPC that provide for the possibility of listening to telephones and other conversations, and to disclose information that contains a secret without the consent of the owner of this information or without the right of the court to do so, excluded from this law. We've been through this before. We see it now. At the same time, I can see and, let's say, some of these legal-technical errors in the drafting of this bill. This is, in particular, the right to file claims for the materials of the search and search activities to the court. [[Article 25, paragraph 4, on the Security Service where you propose to do]] It's probably the results of the test done in the course of the search, that the test materials should be given as evidence to the court, otherwise people won't be able to press charges. Next. You're talking about making some sort of test. Why Acts? How can they then be accused of people who have been affected by State rights and protected interests? And in the end, I would like to say that the money that is now being washed up in a terrible amount, including terrorism, on terrorism against my own people, and that's what I would say, and that's worse terrorism, and yet the Ukrainian Security Service has been harassing them. And we see that in Odessa today. Let me give you just a few examples of funding. Long time ago, with us, the benefits laws for joint ventures are being applied, and now only one "Agia." A freighter of 42,000,250,000 tons of sugar, as if dalish cane sugar raw material, burns more than 700 wagons, Volodymyr Illich. What, a criminal case? You're the address who got it: "Jerelo" by SP Interwinds. Everyone in Ukraine knows what kind of party is behind these interventions and derelas. Another problem. This party, I'd like to make it a crime. [[I'm not going to advertise with her.]] And this is preparation for terrorist acts as well. I think that this law can only be passed after the adoption of the first law, but it can be considered, adopted in the first reading, so that it can be adopted, and then adopted at that point in a week, there, but pulled to that level. I share the comments made by the base committee, and I can make even more of them. I'm just going to use my rights on second reading. I would like to secure the state, on the one hand, from the usurping of power by certain clans and, on the other hand, from acts of terrorism to protect the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u17	Yeah, tell me, are you in or out?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u18	I am in favour of the adoption of the first reading, only after the adoption of the basic law on the fight against terrorism, and against the violation of the Constitution against the three articles provided for here. We have to write, "by court order," so I'm going to give you a brief statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u19	I mean, you're against getting in or out.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u20	I'm against the Constitution, I'm against the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u21	Please, Pavlovsky Mikhailo Antonovich. Please, Mikhailo Antonovich. Don't break the rules, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I want to get your attention, because they listen to us, and I know there are TVs on in the Presidential Administration, so I want to make a mockery. By this law, its represented lawyers and the President's Administration have shown complete illiteracy, they have taken these changes and completed them as a supplement to the law. Now, then, the committee was pushed to look into it. That was not the case, since I was nine years old on this stand, and that was not the case. You have to adopt a basic law first, and then you have to make changes and additions accordingly that come out of it. No one denies that we should not stretch out in time, but we cannot get ahead of ourselves. This time. And I would like for the future that we in the Supreme Council should follow regulations and act on the logic of things. Because, for example, Vladimir Illich is speaking and saying that we will not store material if there's a person listening and something else that affects honor and dignity. But in the basic law, the main object against which this law is directed is political parties and political activity — all that this law against terrorism. I mean, everyone who joins the political party today, and, God forbid, you're already a terrorist. It's still a full program. That's why I have to. I've made such an offer where there's Dostajko Vladimir Illich, listen to Vladimir Illich, I've made an offer that from the basic law the concept of "political parties" should be eliminated as terrorists, because they are already by the definition of a terrorist given to political parties. We need to get him out of there. And so then the corresponding change here has to be made that when the materials are removed, they affect both the dignity and the political activity. That is, material should not be stored in the U.S.S.A. regarding the political activity of one person or another. That's the first one. And the second. I'd like you to consider why we're in a hurry. I have a law in my hands that the government has enacted today. Now, we're adopting the Anti-Money Laundering Act, and the government has found a new loophole, this Export Insurance Act is a classic scheme for washing the dirty money they need. This is where it's all set. They're taking money from the budget and everything's fine. Therefore, we must wait until we consider this law and then accept appropriate changes and additions. So these changes and additions are logical, they will only come after Hennadia Josephovich, how we will adopt the basic law and only then can we consider it, otherwise illogically. All right, thank you. So I'm against considering it now, but I'm in favour of considering it after a basic law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u23	You don't want to. Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u24	Dear National Deputies! There are many entrepreneurs among us, so I want to tell all entrepreneurs that they will soon be terrorists under this law. Because it turns out who's funding the terrorists. Terrorists are financed by entrepreneurs. How can terrorism be prevented? We need to destroy all entrepreneurs, and there will be no terrorism in Ukraine, as there is no one, in principle, but terrorism on the part of the state. I won't be loud. Please, I quote, highlight and quote article 3 of this bill. It says that in the event of action to combat terrorism, security officials have the right to receive written requests from the head of the body or the security department of Ukraine from financial customs and other businesses, institutions, organizations about documents, transactions, account status, movement of funds on them and during a specific period of time and so forth. [[It's not going to be a planned stock, it's just a matter of action.]] Next. In the same way. Does the Security Service have the right to do what? Obtain the body by written request. U.S. Security Service department information from automated information and help systems of data banks created by the Supreme Court and so on. I mean, there's no terrorism yet, there's no fighting it yet, there's something going on. And within these measures. There was, you know, anti-alcoholism, Tunisianism, and now we're going to have to take action to combat terrorism. And during these measures, the opposition will be destroyed. Do not let any entrepreneur there find another bench of opposition and help someone there; they will immediately have closed accounts; they will be recognized as financing a future terrorist organization. We do not even have the right to consider this law. As legislators, we have no right to consider such proposals. They run counter to the very basic law of the Constitution. It was already before me that my colleagues were talking about the right of correspondence and so forth. But the right to classified information. Every entrepreneur protects her as much as he can, and there's only one way to do it. See what else the Security Service gets out of this. Provide for intelligence and crime materials. to the court for the annulment of the state registration and the cessation of the existence of business entities. This is just a written statement by a security officer and the company is closing down. It's a dream. The dream of many powerful structures. And we, as those who stand on the side of the interests of the Ukrainian people, of the Ukrainian state, should eventually not allow such dreams to come true. We have to do everything we can to ensure that this law does not go through either in the first or in the second, to bring it back as one that does not simply correspond to the spirit and the letter of the Ukrainian Constitution, the spirit and the letter of the Ukrainian future state. If he does not respond to this state, let them take it outside the parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u25	Lukjanenko Levko Grigorovich. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u26	Dear Mr. Head! Deputies! I would really like to emphasize what Pavlovsky and my colleague School have already said, which is an unacceptable thing when the law on terrorism is not adopted, and we want to make amendments to any other law. It really needs to be put in front of the horse. Well, just, from the point of view of procedure, some kind of absurdity, so no one has ever done and, of course, it's illogical, and so no amendments can be made to a law that does not exist in itself. Now the question of the substance of this law, which is terrorism. Political Terrorism or Criminal Terrorism? When it comes to criminal terrorism, which is really, when people are killed for doing business there, whether it's counting some kind of criminal structure, or so on, we have enough criminal code to do that, and there's enough legal document to fight that kind of terrorism. If we want to pass the law on combating political terrorism, I would like to ask: Where did you see it in Ukraine? Thank God there hasn't been such a thing in Ukraine yet. And when it comes to political persecution, we have only a very vivid fact that UNA-UNSO members were being persecuted for participating on March 9, last year in a demonstration, in a peaceful demonstration. In this way, Ukraine has established political prisoners in the same shameful trial, but this is not the case. We don't have political terrorism as such, and so I see that trying to create the Anti-Terrorism Act can have an extremely important and dangerous international meaning for us. There really is terrorism in Russia. We don't have it yet. When we adopt such a law, it will certainly provoke any other foreign organization to extend it and to Ukraine, because we are standing in one line with Russia that is really fighting, there, against Chechnya and so on, we are in a very difficult situation. We have no such situation, thank God, and I would not want us to provoke the mere complexity of our international situation by adopting such a law. In itself, this law on terrorism contradicts, as has already been stressed, the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens, because by law we have the right to the secret of correspondence, the secret of telephone negotiations and so on. This law solves some of our services and gives citizens the opportunity to exercise their rights. So this is not to be allowed. So on behalf of the Julia Timoshenko faction, I propose that I withdraw that basic law from the view that it is not timely. It's not a good time. We have many other subjects, and the Supreme Council has to devote its work to other issues that are really important. Terrorism is gone, and God forbid it. And that's why I'm proposing to take it off the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u27	The discussion is closed, the vote will take place on Thursday. Let's move on to another question. Draft law amending some legislation in Ukraine (to control import-export disks for laser-reading systems. From the Ministry of Economics and European Integration, Prime Minister Vladimir Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u28	Honourable Hennadija Andriyovich, distinguished national deputies, is proposed for your consideration by the draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation. The draft law amends Ukraine’s laws on external economic activity, licensing of certain types of economic activity, the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the specifics of national regulation of the activities of economic operators associated with production, export, and the import of disks for laser reading systems. The main purpose of the bill is to improve the legal protection of intellectual property rights, to remove conflicts between Ukraine’s laws on external economic activity and on the specificities of national regulation of the activities of operators associated with production, export, and import of disks for laser reading systems. Bringing the provisions of this law to the requirements of international law and the rules of the World Intellectual Property Trade Organization. The bill provides, inter alia, for changes that will clearly regulate the licensing of production, export, import of discs and matrixes for their production, special codes for manufactured and exported disks only, and verification of manufacturers. The terms used in the law on the specificities of government regulation of the activities of operators involved in manufacturing, export, and imports of disks for laser reading systems are specified. The bill also sets out a clear list of external economic activity requirements required to obtain export-import licences. In line with these changes, the procedure for licensing export-import disks for laser reading systems, equipment and raw materials for their production is being improved. In particular, it is proposed to cancel the need for export licences, import of specified goods as a kind of business activity, because the active law requires business operators to export imported disks for laser reading and retrieval systems. So today there's a paradoxical situation where, for example, the scientific research institute at the import into Ukraine of equipment, which includes a dozen disks for laser reading and recording systems, has to be licensed for this kind of economic activity. Along with a set of import licences, help is needed to confirm the availability of warehouses specially equipped for storing them, resulting in a fair dissatisfaction of the owners. Thus today, artificial barriers exist in the conduct of businesses, institutions, and organizations that import them into Ukraine for their own equipment, materials, and so forth. Therefore, in your consideration, honourable national MPs, the bill proposes to license only a specific external economic operation with intellectual property. In addition, specific benefits of the authorities and the grounds for verifying the production of disks for laser-reading systems or export-importing systems are set out and the list of sanctions applied for infringements of Ukrainian law on the specificities of national regulation of the activities of the production, export and import of disks for laser-reading systems is specified. The adoption of the proposed changes will also enable the monitoring authorities to monitor export and import transactions with disks for laser reading systems and to prevent the importation of smuggled products at the same time. The adoption of the draft law before you will allow you to ask questions about the removal of the sanction imposed by the United States on imports of goods from Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the draft of the law that you have been briefed on, has received the support of the Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we ask for your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u29	Have a seat, please. Associated with the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economics, Property and Investments, Matthew Vladimir Josephovich. We're working on a reduced procedure. Such a decision is taken by the Conciliation Council. Have a seat, please. Please, Vladimir Josephovich. That we can't give the word out of procedure right now. The question is being considered. Please report. And you read the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Economic Policy, People's Management, Property, Investments at the meeting of 14 January, considered a draft Act of Ukraine amending certain Ukrainian legislation on licensing and control of activities related to the export of disks and laser reading systems. The aim of the bill, in the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers, is to improve the state regulation of export licences and import of disks for laser reading systems and to resolve differences between the Foreign Economic Act and the specificities of the State regulation of production, export, import of disks for laser reading. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of 25 November 2002, believes that the bill can be adopted on first reading on the basis of comments and proposals. In its consideration of the bill, 9 members voted in favour of rejecting the bill and 9 abstained. It should also be noted that the bill was considered at a meeting of the Industrial Policy and Enterprise Committee, where it was decided to reject the draft law as inappropriate. That is to say, the Committee has not taken such a decision, although no member of the committee has supported the bill in order to support it. That's what this is about. First of all, it is related to the fact that the promotion of intellectual property protects the economic interests of foreign companies, which are now the world's leading laser disks and reading systems. This follows from the proposals made by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Supreme Council. The Ukrainian Act “On the characteristics of State regulation of the activities of operators related to production, export, import of disks for laser reading systems” article one, supplement to this article or amendment to this article, states that licensing is required. The licenses to export and import disks for laser reading systems, they do indeed contain intellectual property, matrixes, and matrixes do indeed contain intellectual property and must be protected by law, but it goes on: equipment and raw materials for their production - they do not contain intellectual property that is required to be protected by this law, i.e. must not be licensed under ideology by law and by the ideology that we carry out. The same applies to transit through the customs territory of Ukraine of disks for laser reading systems, matrices, raw materials and raw materials for their production. It is the same, equipment and raw materials, it does not today contain intellectual property and must not be protected by this law. Today, this law protects the economic interests of foreign firms that are today the world's monopolies of laser disc production. So it's actually a new one that puts into question the possibility of transporting legitimately through the acquisition of laser discs, but if there are more than 20 in your car. Because of this: the illicit traffic of disks for laser reading systems, equipment and raw materials for their production, export, import, savings, realization, movement in Ukraine of disks for laser reading systems is not allowed. I mean, if I have more than 20 of these drives in my car today, I'm not allowed to carry them in my car because I don't have a license. Among other things, the amendment to the law in general can stop the production of these disks in Ukraine. Article 7 of the amendment reads as follows: “The licensing authority at the time of the inspection shall have the right: to seal or remove disks for laser reading systems, matrixes manufactured in violation of the requirements of the Act, as well as raw materials, equipment for their production pending judicial action. [[That's exactly right.]] That is to say, it is possible to produce protected rights, intellectual rights of citizens on the same equipment, but if the controlling authority is found on intended grounds, the proceedings can simply be stopped. We therefore propose that the draft law be rejected, not adopted. Among other things, the adoption of this law will lead to an increase in the value of disks on the Ukrainian market today, which will reduce the ability of the population, who are poor enough today, to obtain information.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u31	Thank you. Carmazin, please, the next Bespallian.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u32	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear colleagues! Dear people of Ukraine! Who needs this law? It is needed by its authors. Who are the authors? Prime Minister of China. The new government is thus also responsible for this law, for he wrote that he wants this law to be passed. I'm going to ask the question, "Is the law in the interests of Ukraine, is it not discriminatory?" And I'm going to answer all these questions positively: "He's not in the interests of Ukraine, he's clearly a discriminatory law." I sincerely thank the committee that had the courage, and Mr. Matthew, who had the courage to call things his names now. What is this law made for Americans, for different people, instead of our government thinking about another question, "How can we protect our intellectual property, Mr. Secretary of State?" After all, the inventor of these discs is our Ukrainian citizen, Petrov Viacheslav Vasilovich, director of the Institute of Optical Information of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. And we are something to be proud of, Ukrainians, we are not so poor. We've only been led by such governments to poverty by this kind of promotion and lobbying of interests on behalf of the government, and in fact, we can see from whom the name is lobbying these interests. Today we want to destroy the absolute production in which we are the priority, and where we have to stand and prove that we patented it back in the '70s. Why don't we ask now that we get paid by the Americans and everyone else. Let them pay us today. And that's a question to be asked. In no intellectual crevices of today’s government are they directed at this. They are aimed at destroying all production here in Ukraine. I consider it a crime to pass this law in general, and I find it discriminatory. If you're speaking in legal terms, there's a frost, a frost, coming out of what you're proposing -- putting in the confiscation of property, for example, in article 203. Ukraine's Criminal Code on the Application of Confiscation. Because part of the second article of the 59th Criminal Code, which I have had the privilege of working on for three years, establishes that only serious and particularly serious crimes are subject to confiscation. What are you doing?Oh, my God! What do you suggest we do?Oh, my God! Everything is confiscated -- both devices and everything -- and then for five years so that they don't even fit the license. Criminal law. He needs to be treated clearly -- to be rejected and to show the government that if he wants to be called the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and not the other state -- he has to stand up and call everyone back before the vote. I'm addressing the Prime Minister. Call it off! Show that you're Ukrainian, not a hunchback I don't know who. Excuse me, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u33	Insomnia Boris Yakovich. Next Mother. Is there no Bezpalogo? Mother, please. No, no. Pavlovsky to the side. Mother. The next Pavlovsky. Mikhail Antonovich, here comes Mother.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u34	I think whoever's here will say the same thing. The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship unanimously decided to rescind the law, believing that it was not beneficial to Ukraine. I also appeal to the presidency of the Supreme Council for such a request. Don't make our experts' material. I think you're taking all the notes from some country. I suggest you write down today that Vice President of the Union of Industrialists, Head of the Subcommittee of Engineering, PPE Miko Vitali Ivanovich made an offer from the Ukrainian industry to repeal this law as a law that does not help the industry in the workplace. And I want to warn the MPs, let's protect the industry from all sides. You heard the radio yesterday, we passed the principals' bill, the salary, but you didn't give them the opportunity to do it today: no credit, nothing. Thousands of open criminal cases. You tell me what it is that a thousand factories can't pay their wages, is that you have a thousand fools? Or is it that someone can't do it and a thousand of them are going crazy? So I want to tell you one thing, we have industry's interests and our task is to protect them, it's much more powerful than they think of it, and we need to be proud of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u35	Thank you, Vitaly Ivanovich. Pavlovsky Mikhailo Antonovich, next to Rudzikowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u36	Dear friends! Since in the past, our television call said "deputy law" and didn't show me as the author on the rostrum, let's see this year. And I, my dear friends, tell you, we're going to the European Union, I went to the Phillips, they introduced their law, and we passed European law! And we live behind it today on CDs, and now, you see, the government doesn't like it! And I'm opening a secret: by introducing this law, I went back last year, let's create a special investigation commission -- where a million dollars went from the ocean to fight pirate discs. Who ripped them off? They went through the previous government, where did a million dollars go? This is the case. Now, you see, a million dollars has to be worked out. And what wonderful changes!? I'd like to address the Secretary of State, you're a little confused, this law imposes restrictions on you for 10 disks in prison. Moreover, this law, which shows the value of the previous government, is of little value! Because there should be all levels in the market, and that's how we do it, what changes the government is proposing? If you're exporting a disk, please, it should have an ID number, and if you're importing, you don't have to, you can drive a pirate, and you have to do what you have to do. That's the first, that's the cost. On the other hand, you understand the demands, the penalties, there is no stopping in the world. I mean, in the same United States there's billions of dollars of pirate CDs going around, and we haven't been introducing, by the way, our government hasn't made any changes and additions to their laws, and here I want to ask you today: can the government name one example when any of our Cabinetmen have changed Polish laws? There's no such thing. Why our government accepts the changes that foreign firms give it, and they make us consider. Whose government really is this? So, Your Honor, I'm not going to go into detail, because this is a disgrace to what's here, it's a disgrace. We had a normal European standard: If you claim to be a firm, you apply for a test. As a result, the company suffered damage, and you turned out to be wrong, so compensate for the damage, which can be destroyed every day. Yes, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's how the firm comes and destroys anyone. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is one of the few high-tech technologies that are in Ukraine, which is born in Ukraine, which we have given the world, and we have to protect this technology. If the government does not want to protect its own production, it is necessary to collect their suitcases and go abroad and live there if you do not want to protect your production and do not support it. That is why this law must be rejected. And for the future, it's a new government and it shouldn't take them on its own for all the sins of the previous government, just like that law in support of exports. I need the government right now, I'm calling to see if they can hand Janukovich over directly. The shameful laws proposed by the previous government cannot be upheld today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u37	Rudzikowski Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u38	Your Honor, I'm addressing you. I asked if I could get a line from the point of view, because laws like this can't be considered for a reduced procedure. And I'm going to the Presidium, the Secretariat, no longer passing such serious laws to consider a reduced procedure, which limits the possibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u39	I'll answer right away. As far as I'm concerned. You're a member of a separate faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u40	You don't have to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u41	When the faction council gathers, they should express their opinion. Let's do it on the subject, essentially.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u42	Well, first of all, I didn't interrupt you when you were performing. This is the first time. It's different. I'm calling the secretariat again. Do not make such laws without it. including when the committee does not have a positive solution to this issue. And now, essentially. A report from the Cabinet of Ministers was misleading the Chamber of Deputies when it said that the adoption of this law would protect the interests of a national producer. That's not true. And you know it. You can't do that. And speaking from the committees, they just confirmed it. I'm going to the government, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, you're going to submit a program of government to the Supreme Council for approval. If you pass laws that will defend the interests of the manufacturer, but not of the Ukrainian, this Supreme Council will not vote in favour of your program of government, regardless of whether it is for the majority or for the minority. We must defend the interests of the Ukrainian producer. Next. Following the adoption of the law on laser disks, production in Ukraine has already decreased by 30 percent. Part of the equipment moved to Russia. So what will the government do for Russia to grow the production of laser disks and export to Ukraine? Is this strategy going to be our executive power? I hope it doesn't happen. Once again, I appeal to the deputies not to vote in favour of this law. It will harm Ukrainian production, the Ukrainian consumer of discs. Moreover, adjustments should be made to the earlier law. And I'm here with my colleagues to work with the government. Let's limit the pressure of the earlier law so that we can restore the volume of previously produced disks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, four national deputies have spoken. Everyone's against it. Is there anyone in the hall to support this bill? It's all clear. With regard to the reduced procedure, article 3.4.2 of the Rules is provided for. Let's set it up on Thursday. Now, let's move on to another question, a reduced procedure. Vladimir Kirilovich, are you in? Or you're up for it. Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, I'm in and out. First of all, why don't you? We passed a very strict law. I myself reported the law from the committee to the law of the government. Then, along with Paul’s companion. On the basis of European standards, laws were passed. I'd say he's even too strict. And after that, we are again required to make this bill even more hard. We have a typical and classic example of protectionism, national protectionism by the United States. And I'd like to take the floor for this, so that our government officials can draw conclusions from this and also protect our internal market where it's needed and possibly to support our manufacturers, also protect Ukrainian know-how, as the United States does. Although I do not fully share their means of fighting that they use in their competition. That's why it's against, and then it's for. We had a branding export, now they're replacing it with exports and imports. Now we're left with branding exports, imports are taken off, so they're opening up a completely internal market. Checks, responsibility of the applicant. Can we terrorize the company all the time, find out who's responsible? It stops the business practically. It's not like that again. Licenses. We had one year. Five years now. In five years, technology changes. We're lagging behind, we're being dumped on the brink of scientific and technological progress practically. Now why? Before the sanctions were announced, Ukraine exported 23 items for the 1999 value of $55.9 million, in 2000 51.2 million, in 2001 $53 million. And Ukraine lost this market in connection with sanctions, and Ukraine will lose about $55 million each year in connection with the U.S. sanctions. And we're also losing the ability on a duty-free basis to export $40 million worth of goods to the United States. So 50 plus 40 is about $90 million of our loss. And that's how they're pushing us. That's why I think we should stand in principle without looking at this crazy pressure. And I suggest in response that we impose sanctions against the United States in connection with exports to Ukraine of pirate disks. Sanctions to answer the sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. It's compatible. Yeah? Well, that's how it's gonna be. The replica. Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u46	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I propose to support the proposal of a deputy from "Our Ukraine" of Cherniak, really, to impose sanctions against the United States of America. This will greatly help their leader on his journey to the United States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We'll make a decision when we vote. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the approval of the State Securities Commission and the representation of the State in the National Depository is being announced for consideration. This is document number 2038. Reporter Oleg Mikolaiovich Brain. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u48	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. For your consideration, it is proposed to amend some laws of Ukraine concerning the approval of the National Securities Commission and the representation of the State in the National Depository. The bill was drafted to carry out the mandate of the President of Ukraine. The bill, which is proposed, provides for changes and additions to the current legislation of Ukraine on the national regulation of the market in securities and the activities of the National Depository System, namely: it proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the Securities Market and the Act on the National Depository System and the characteristics of electronic circulation of securities of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to establish a clear division of responsibilities between the commission as a college body and its central apparatus and territorial bodies, to expand the list of grounds for the release of the head and members of the commission during the term of office, to arrange for monitoring of the activities of the National Depository System as part of the restrictions on the appointment of State representatives in the National Depository, Depositaries, Trade Organisers and other professional participants in the securities market. The adoption of the act will lead to improved government regulation of the securities market, the identification of an effective mechanism for the implementation of the government’s mechanism of securities and the stock market of its authority, and the increased responsibility of the governing officers of the commission for the results of its activities, the prohibition of their duties, and the incompatibilities with the status of a civil servant. It should also be noted that, in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is recommended for adoption on the first reading as a basis. In addition, the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of People’s Households, Property and Investment recommends a bill to be adopted on the basis of the first reading. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u49	And thank you. Please have a seat. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. Please take the position of committee in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u50	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The Committee on Economic Policy, National Administration, Property and Investment considered at its meeting a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine number 2038 from 29.07.2002. The bill provides for changes and additions to the current Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of the market in securities and the activities of the National Depository System, which will increase the responsibility of the head and members of the commission for its activities, establish a clear division of responsibilities between the commission as a college body and its central apparatus and territorial bodies, assigning the head and members of the Commission the status of civil servants and extending them to restrictions on the membership of the governments of those or other implementing bodies of enterprises that carry out professional activities on the market of securities provided for in the regulations on public service. The members of the committee had some comments on how to define more clearly the distribution of functions, responsibility, especially the mechanism of responsibility, some points from the legal point of view. In general, the committee shares conceptually what is said here with the conceptual bill. We think that on the second reading, the pipe will make some other changes that I've said, more clearly, write out the procedures of these, legal techniques of defiligrate. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, proposes to adopt the bill as a basis and makes a number of valid observations. The committee recommends that the proposed bill be adopted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u51	Thank you, Vladimir Kirilovich. Have a seat, please. George Carmazin and Vladimir Cherniak took part in the performance. You're filming, aren't you? Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u52	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear people of Ukraine! I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that the proposed text of the law is very narrow, limited as it is in its content, and from your report today, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think we will continue to refer to such laws as the government provides. I mean, framework laws that solve only narrow problems. I wish we had laws that were new, serious, serious codification documents that we would have adopted, and of course not those where we're asking questions about adding to a few articles just the law on national regulation of the securities market and the national depository system and the characteristics of electronic circulation. I'd like to ask the reporter or the co-rapporteur how much this law will cost. Since the report, which is here, explains the note, says: "The implementation of the bill does not require additional material and other costs." [[paragraph 5]] But. But the head and members of the commission can be released during the term of their powers -- it says here -- as are government officials. Absolutely the whole apparatus: the executives, the specialists in the central apparatus and even the territorial authorities -- they're all government officials. Let's see, maybe we shouldn't all be. And how many of them are in the state we would like to hear from the legislators here. We just passed the State Budget Act. We don't know if we're going to stretch out when we're going to make all the organs right now and make all of them civil servants. Is this in line with the rules of the Budget Code? But he's not answering. The budget code says that if there are other costs, please, we can only ask the question from the year ahead, that is, from 2004 onwards. And as far as the question of wages, pensions, different kinds of other benefits as government officials is concerned, I would like to hear the answer to these questions. I would like to hear them speak to the electorate. I would like to explain why in the village of Suha Kaligirka, Cherka district, they want to destroy the last school. Why haven’t they seen the computer since it was 11 years old? I'd like to understand why in other places, and now we're just going to hand out the status of a civil servant. I'm here to make sure that government officials don't have any other problems or finance, so to speak, from non-budgetary sources, I'm here for that. But let's call things by our names and say that the law takes so many millions, and we're not going to deceive anyone, we're not going to mislead anyone. And the explanatory note says he doesn't need any expenses. So, understanding and supporting the whole idea of this bill-rapture, supporting the idea, I would like to have people's deputies answer those questions by number and by structure, so that they don't have uncles in the bank somewhere, and that this doesn't have to be resolved depending on the attitude of the heads of the administration, how much the states give you, and how to raise the salaries. Everything has to be governed in this state by law. If we make that law, let's do it more fully, and MPs have to know where the people's money will go, at least to inform society and the public. Thank you for your attention. I mean, I'm in general for the project, but once again, I'm saying, with the limitations that I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues who are no longer interested, I see no one has signed up, so the question is closed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the approval of the State Securities Commission. Oh, we've considered it. I'm sorry. Draft Act 2103 amending the Ukrainian Act "On the National Depository System and the Features of Electronic Exchange of Securities in Ukraine" (on protection of shareholders' rights and on transparency of the stock market. Oleg Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u54	Since a question has been asked to the state commission, to the government, I would like to answer Mr. Carmazin about the fact that both the head of the commission and the members of the state commission are civil servants and in accordance with the law on state regulation. And no additional financial costs are required by this law, because the regular schedule is composed, there is an 8th year state commission, but in the courts there have been some recent questions about the status of the members of the state commission, the head of the commission. So I'm saying, no financial costs are required by this law. And with regard to draft Law 2103. Ladies and gentlemen, for your consideration, a draft law amending article 12 of the Act on the National Depository System and the characteristics of the electronic circulation of securities in Ukraine is proposed to prohibit the founders of the register of holders of nominal securities to own a package of shares of the issuer of the register of shareholders, which this registrar led to the implementation of the 2001-2005 Action Plan for the Implementation of the Basic Directions for the Development of the Stock Market, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. The proposed bill amends article 12 of the Ukrainian Act "On the National Depository System and the Speciality of the Electronic Exchange of Securities in Ukraine" and prohibits the founders of the register from owning the shares of the issuer, the register of shareholders that this registrar maintains, and the ban on the issuer from being the founder and participant of the registrar, the register of holders of the nominal securities that this registrar maintains. The changes noted should contribute to increasing the independence of register holders of nominal securities, which in turn will safeguard the rights and interests of owners of nominal securities against the risks associated with the indiscretion of a professional stock market participant, as well as the risks associated with the activities carried out by professional participants in the interests of interested persons. The aim of this law is to protect the rights of shareholders and to ensure the transparency of the stock market. The adoption of a draft Ukrainian law amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Act on the National Depository System should reduce the negative impact of shareholders on the activities of the registrar, which in turn will reduce the infringements during the transfer of ownership rights to name securities and increase the trust of domestic and foreign investors in the Ukrainian stock market as a whole. It should also be noted that the Committee on Economic Policy for the Management of National Households and Investments recommends the adoption of the bill as a basis for the first reading. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u55	Thank you. Please have a seat. Vladimir Kirilovich, position of committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Economic Policy for the Management of National Economy, Property and Investment discussed at its meeting a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Change in the Ukrainian Law on National Depository System and the Specialities of Electronic Exchange of Securities in Ukraine. The law prohibits the founder of the registrar from owning the shares of the issuer, the register of holders of the nominal securities that he maintains, and the issuer from being the founder or participant of the registrar, the register of holders of the nominal securities that the registrar maintains, in order to increase the independence of the holders of securities. That's the whole pofos of the bill to ensure the independence of register holders of securities, because it's practically a problem now. The adoption of the bill should contribute to increasing the independence of register holders of nominal securities, as well as to reducing the risks associated with the activities carried out by a professional participant in the interests of interested persons, as the chairman of the Securities Commission has said today. In its conclusion, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. And he makes some remarks that will improve the quality of the bill. The committee recommends that the bill be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u57	Thank you, Volodymyr Kirilovich. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. Get ready for Seminosi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u58	Yuri Carmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, Honourable People of Ukraine. Once again, I call your attention to the fact that the draft law consists of only two paragraphs. We talk more about them than it says here. This once again speaks of our insensibility to patch up the legislative field, our irresponsibility, even so. And here's the question. Is there a need for such a law? Of course, such changes were necessary, only during the comprehensive revision of all legislative acts did such changes have to be made. The project is intended to prohibit the founders of the register directly or indirectly from owning the shares of the issuer, the register of holders of the name shares of which the registrar runs. And of course, I agree that the adoption of the bill will increase the degree of independence of securities registries and may be in line with world practice. But another question. Which adds to the part of the first article 12 by a new paragraph: "The immitor may not be directly or indirectly the founder or participant of the registrar and the register of holders of the nominal securities held by the registrar." That's a good thesis. Very good. And what responsibility, please tell me, is being established. Well, you wrote it can't. And he is. Intermediately. Through uncle, brother, sister-in-law. I've been in the public eye for days as one mayor of his son has more than half a hundred enterprises, up to a hundred, I'm waiting for a hundred, as founders. And when they come to negotiate some kind of business circle, he says, "All you can do is, please, here's a few percent." And that's all it's called: mediocre. For example: What responsibility will be established? Let's assume this responsibility, which it is, or what character it will be, whether it's just a declaratory law or not. That's the first one. And the second. I'd like to hear, after all, how many employees are working in the institution that we've just passed the law on. I didn't take the time to talk, because when I'm told that we need to make changes, but we're all government officials, I'm sorry: your district officials aren't government officials, and you know that. So, and if we're now saying that there's a status in them, let's talk about how much we're thinking about in terms of what happened in the state, I don't want to call the dark events, the bad events, the difficult events that were happening today, as we're getting the state enterprises, what's the role in this office of yours. I'm not talking about this right now, although we need to make a hearing here on this issue, it's a very serious question. So, dear friends, I'd like us to assume responsibility. And I'm going to the committee: this is a matter to be settled. It's just that it can't or can't, directly or indirectly, it's not a solution to the problem, it's a declaration. We need to move away from the declarations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u59	Anatoly Seminoga, faction of the block of Julia Timoshenko. It doesn't, does it? He's giving up the word. All those who wanted to make a statement on the matter spoke. It means that we're done. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on contracts for the sale of securities from open stock companies. Oleg Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u60	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. In order not to convert, let's say, here in the debate with Mr. Carmazin about the activities of the State Commission and other issues, I would just like to say that, really, the issue of the functioning of a body like the State Commission needs to be considered, because the financing of the State Securities Commission for January 2003 is to maintain the commission 21 percent of the modest funds allocated for January 2003. Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed that you consider a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to focus the circulation of securities from open stock companies, which are strategically relevant to the economy of the state, on the institutionalised market of securities. The project was developed by the State Securities Commission to implement the President's decree of 26 March 2001 on additional measures for the development of Ukraine's stock market. The bill, which is being considered, provides for additions to certain articles of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the Securities Market and the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Exchanges, which contain requirements for the deposit of contracts for the sale of securities from open stock companies, which are strategically important for the economy mainly in an organised market and sanctions for non-execution. I'm not going to stop directly at the articles, you have them. The purpose of the bill is to focus the circulation of securities on an organized market, which is important not only in addressing the issue of the operation of a transparent, liquid, investment-attractive national stock market, but also in preventing the manipulation of the market of securities of outflows of capital outside the State, the economic security of the State, as it will contribute to the implementation of the principle and the conclusion of securities contracts, the supply against payment, which in turn will lead to an increase in tax revenues to the budget. The current adoption of this bill is also determined by the increase in the total volume of securities in the market each year. If in 2000, 39.2 billion dollars, in 2001, 68.5 billion dollars, and in 9 months 2002 alone, it is already 67.2 billion dollars. The volume of trade in the informal market, out of stock, is nearly 63 billion. So in an organized market, unfortunately, 4.2 billion, which is about 6 percent of the total volume of trade. The adoption of the law will enable the completion of an effective accounting and settlement system under securities agreements. Moreover, the implementation of the proposed standards will allow for increased market capitalisation of equity companies and make the Ukrainian stock market more attractive to domestic and external investors. It should also be noted that the implementation of the proposed bill will be one of Ukraine's steps towards joining the European Union. I would also like to draw your attention, honourable national MPs, that the adoption of the bill should have a positive impact on the acceleration of the economic potential of our country, will make pricing in the market transparent and will contribute to the development of fair competition. It should also be noted that the adoption of the bill will also have a positive impact on the implementation of pension reform in Ukraine, the establishment of an effective system for the functioning of mortgage institutions and the increased investment rating of our state, which has recently been reduced by leading world ratings, agencies. In addition, the adoption of the bill will contribute to the implementation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition of Legalization of Laundering of Proceeds by Crime in Part of Financial Monitoring, Identification of Persons Performing Financial Transactions in the Securities Market for the purpose of purchasing securities. It is particularly relevant in the world of Ukraine’s implementation of the recommendations of a group to develop financial measures to combat money-laundering. Dear National Deputies! Taking into account the importance of the provisions of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, I ask that it be adopted in the first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u61	Thank you, too. From the Committee on Finance and Banking, First Deputy Chairman of the Committee, Victor Volodymyrovich Kapusin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u62	Dear National Deputies! The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on the National Regulation of the Market in Securities of Ukraine, the law of Ukraine on securities and stock exchange on the establishment of a requirement for contracts for the sale of securities of open stock companies that are strategically important for the economy and security of the State only on an organized market and are determined by sanctions for the breach of this requirement. [[No. 2247]] In discussing the bill's draft, the committee's meeting noted, above all, the inadmissibility of solving the economic problem was an administrative remedy. According to the committee, the bill needs a very substantial revision. In particular, there is a need for a clear order of identification of open stock companies, securities agreements that should be made exclusively in organized markets. It is doubtful that a list of enterprises that are strategically relevant to the economy and security of the State, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of 29 August 2000, as not all enterprises listed in this list can be applied to the requirement set out in the bill. [[No. 1346]] In particular, the listed list contains enterprises that are not open to shareholders. Moreover, it is doubtful that a ban on making contracts on the off-market is being imposed on all types of securities without exception. Taking into account these arguments into account, the committee at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine to reject. [[No. 2247]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u63	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u64	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! With the adoption of this law, with all the changes in contracts for the sale of securities from open stock companies, which are strategically important for the economy and security of the state, which is now envisaged to be made exclusively in an organized securities market, we are already late and late for many years. But that doesn't mean we don't have to settle this issue right now. This does not mean that we need to take this more seriously. And that's why I don't understand why the committee, at least on behalf of the committee, had this notion that it wasn't necessary at all. This law, of course, has its faults, but it also has its benefits. He will protect what is still in the state of Ukraine, and he will make the operations that are being done today regarding the property of open shareholders transparent. If the committee does not understand this, it is a different matter, then they are governed by completely different but not by national interests. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, of course, I'm confident that this room will adopt this bill in the first reading, it should be adopted, but it should be written that the agreements are not only about the sale, but also about the securities, any agreements, or the retention of securities. We've got, we've got, like, "Eximnaft Product" of Odessa under 3 million dollars in total, and then for what? For the debt. So he disappeared, disappeared, went to the benefit of one of the oligarchs who sits in this room. What happened? You don't need a name, you know them. That's it. I don't want to do commercials. It's for the prosecutor, the prosecutor knows that. So, dear friends, I want you to think, if a deal is made with these securities, is it supposed to be transparent? Should we look for the offshore company behind it, and who is behind it? But we need to know, state, it's a strategically important enterprise! It's the same, it's the same, it's the same, it's actually done. We don't know how we owned 43 percent of our shares, the state, how the Russian Federation's entity is now in charge. How? When one of the owners is in prison, 8 percent of the shares. One of the owners is sitting in this room, and all of a sudden they're reselling to Tatars because of certain authorities in our country that are so serious. Well, I understand why this committee is against it. I'm in. And the country's pro, and Ukraine's pro, and the Ukrainian people's pro. We need to adopt this law. Thank you. Odessa is also in favor, Odessa is occupied.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm calling it in. Huh? Please, I'm sorry, Nigger's on tape, I didn't see it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, we cannot leave Carmazin alone with the truth, truth, and Ukrainian people. We need someone else to fill it out. This is the first time. And secondly, if the committee supported the bill, I wouldn't be going to this rostrum. But this is the case where Carmazin is right with the Ukrainian people. The bill really needs to be adopted in the first reading, and we're late for it. There is a need for legislation to regulate the process of selling open shareholdings. There are many lazinesses, many abuses, and this needs to be regulated. In some ways, I can understand the position of the committee in relation to the fact that the law states that the sale of open stock companies is only possible in an organized market. The committee believes that this can lead to the process of monopolizing the market. But in general, it's a question of debate, because an organized market includes all those market segments that are regulated by law, and you can also deal with that. So I think maybe we need to write this novel more legally, more philosophically, so that it doesn't cause any objection to this novel, but I don't think it's the essence of the law. And so on this basis, I think there's no reason for the committee to conclude that we can't support the bill. Of course, we need to be critical of the bill as well as of everything else in the world. It is not only a woman who is in love that can be criticized. And everything else needs to be dealt with in a critical way. That's why I'm critical about the bill. But I think it's a step in the right direction. And in the process of preparing for second reading, we are able to improve the bill. And now, I think we have reason to accept it in the first reading. That's to support it conceptually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We'll make a decision when we vote. I am announcing a draft law amending article 333 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on responsibility in the field of export control. This is document number 2086. Reported by Alexander Mikolayovich Grzysutkin, First Deputy Head of the State Intelligence Service. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u68	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You have been presented with a draft Ukrainian law amending the Criminal Code introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill provides for the introduction of an updated edition of article 333 of the Criminal Code. The drafting of the bill is based on the fact that the current version of article 333 of the Code does not cover both certain goods that are not subject to export control and some. implementation of international transfers for which a state-owned expert control regime has been established. Thus, an existing article defines only responsibility for offences against goods that can be used to create rocket, nuclear, and chemical. weapons, military and special equipment. At the same time, more goods are subject to expert control, especially those controlled by national security or the fight against terrorism. Therefore, this responsibility is intended only for the export of goods and does not cover the legal aspects of international transfers, such as exports, which can be effected without the export of goods, imports and transit. In addition to introducing the above-mentioned editorial changes, the bill provides for criminal responsibility for the re-offending of offences in the area of export control or the commission of them by an organized group of persons. The standards provided for in the updated article three hundred and thirty are fully in line with the relevant standards set out in the draft law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading on international transfers of military dual-use items. The adoption of the bill will contribute to the creation of a clear and comprehensive legislative framework for the prevention of export control offences and will contribute to effective activities in this area. This will also ensure that Ukraine fulfils its international obligations regarding the nonproliferation of weapons of mass destruction, its means of delivery, and the transfer of conventional weapons or other goods that may be used for terrorist and other illegal purposes. Please give your support for the adoption of the draft law in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal, perhaps immediately, to make a report on the second project. Is there no objection? Please. And then we'll talk about two right away and there's no questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u70	In addition to the above draft law on amendments to the Criminal Code, honourable members of the national parliaments have been presented together with a draft law on amendments and additions to the Code of Administrative Offences. The bill provides for additions to the Code, which provides for the administrative responsibility of citizens and officials for export control offences. The drafting of the bill is due to the fact that the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences does not currently apply, there is absolutely no administrative responsibility for non-compliance with export control legislation. The draft law provides for administrative responsibility, in particular for infringements such as the conduct of negotiations and the conclusion of contracts concerning the export of goods to countries for which an embargo has been imposed in full or in part without the appropriate authorisation of a specially authorized executive authority; the destruction of documents on international transfers before the end of the deadline; the failure or timely submission to a specially authorized authority of the executing authority of the relevant reports and others. Dear National Deputies! A bill submitted for your consideration, both first and second, is supported by a law enforcement committee on these issues. Please provide your support for the adoption of the draft changes and additions to the Administrative Code in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u71	Please have a seat. Andrew Vasilovich School is a committee, please. I'd like two bills. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u72	Dear radio listeners! Dear National Deputies! As has already been pointed out by the reporter, this bill has been supported by the profiling committee. First. The committee I'm going to join is always supporting those administrative penalties that have been carried out with the help of the court. It's a normal procedure. And, really, when we talk about what doesn't exist at the moment of punishment for violating legislation in the field of state-owned expert control, it's true. And Ukraine made many commitments against our will, of course, that were not subsequently duplicated by additions to existing legislation. And this is one of the duplicates, as is the law itself, and the amendment of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on Administrative Offences. There's a note, there's enough, we can talk about it, but here's the principle of the situation that on the first reading, this bill can be adopted, both one and the other. They do not conflict with current legislation, they have motivation, and this motivation stemmed from previous laws that operate in Ukraine. So I think we should just take a positive look and discuss the details later. I think that the questions here may arise to some points, particularly some changes in the articles, but once again, I would like to sharpen both my attention and yours when the law is passed in the first reading, we will come to the second reading with suggestions and discuss. The law is not such that it can undermine certain rights and does not require additional financial investment. So I am convinced that we should regulate this activity. And for export companies, from 25 untaxed minimums of income, the rate is not the high, critical, where urgent control is needed. But of course, I'm saying once again that here we have to clearly and unequivocally state that the previous existing laws allow for the adoption of this law. So I urge you to vote in the first reading. And he voted in favour of the committee, and that's the idea of a profile committee, of law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u73	Thank you, Andry Vasilovich. Let us move on to the discussion of two bills. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u74	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, you and I have been working on the Ukrainian Criminal Code for three years. In April 2001, we accepted it, and it began to work since September. We were very scrupulous about making each change, referring to many expert conclusions. I've now looked at the contents of this proposed article in 333. "Infringement of the established procedure for international transfers of goods subject to State expert control." So we need to answer a few questions. First, what order, who is installed and subject to expert control. Obviously, that's just how it works, this rule, for whoever applies, the right to apply -- whether it's the investigator, whether it's the prosecutor, whether it's a knowledge worker, it's going to be very difficult to do that. Apparently her inadequacy, her legal underwork. Moreover, without the adoption of the Law on State Control over International Transfers of Military Assignments and Double Uses, which should create the legal basis of the State-expert control system and where to predict exactly what order is foreseen and how goods that are subject to expert control can be transferred to the State or non-State. That's the answer to the question whether it's a lame bill or not. Think about it, please. We do not know what this order is, and we are already establishing criminal responsibility for it. Is this not an example that we should not do? In my opinion, that's exactly the example, you shouldn't do that. I'm very pleased that in the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the executioner of Havronuk, they saw the inadequacy of this law and they just said it. I quote: "In any case, international transfers of goods are intended to be moved across the customs border of Ukraine. In accordance with Article 201 of the large-scale movement of any goods through the customs border, outside customs control or with a hidden customs control, there are smugglings. If the legality of the export of any goods is checked during customs control, their illegal export is classified as smuggling, then there is a legitimate question at all about the meaning of the existence of another article of the Criminal Code of 333 which predicted responsibility for similar acts. The expert tells you that this is a double and extra standard. And in general, it says that it needs a bill of substantive elaboration to take into account the consideration of the basic law. And I'll tell you how that person who spent three years working on the Criminal Code, that he's completely vulnerable, even though he's the one who wants to cover his pants, the harsh seats of the President, the Security Council, the government in the end. Excuse me, the Supreme Council is not a potter to cover up the stormy places, it's a body of legislative regulation, a higher body. That's why I don't think such a bill is acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u75	Dear colleagues! Two Bills 2086 and 2350 completed. All those who wanted to speak. There are no more wanters. I'm announcing for consideration a draft law amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on State Defence Orders for the Limitation of Monopolism in Economic Activities. This is document number 1101. The rapporteur is Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economics and European Integration Vladimir. First. Please, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u76	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The drafting of a bill amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Order requires the introduction of Ukrainian law in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Protection of Economic Competition, as well as the harmonization of the Ukrainian legislative framework in the field of economic regulation. I would like to remind you that the Ukrainian law on State Defence Order, adopted on December 28, 1999, stipulates: [[Part 2 of Article 3]] In the event of a non-definition of the contractor on a competitive basis, a defence order is mandatory if it does not cause damage and is placed by the authorized office of the Ministers by the authority at the casinos, state-owned enterprises and organizations, shareholders associations whose statutory trust fund belongs to the State, rental companies and organizations based on state ownership and business entities of Ukraine, all forms of ownership that are monopolists in accordance with legislation. Ukraine’s Law on Protection of Economic Competition, adopted on January 11, 2001, stipulates that a business entity that is monopolistically dominant in the product market does not have any competitors in this market, or that there is no competition between 2 or more subjects or that there is little competition, i.e. it is the only or largest producer of defence-related products. [[Article 12]] In view of the Final Position of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition, section 6 of article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on State Defence of Procurement is proposed: "On the subject of the management of Ukraine all forms of property, which are the only producers or according to Ukrainian legislation, are recognized as having a monopoly-dominating position with the largest parts of the markets of those types of goods that are subject to state defence orders." The adoption of the law does not require additional costs. This bill is supported by the Supreme Council Committee on National Security and Defence and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u77	Thank you, too, sit down, please. From the committee was the national deputy Sovkovic. I don't see him. There is a committee decision to take as a basis. There's no need, Georgi Korniyovich. Yeah. Then let us move on to the discussion. Two "for", two "against". Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. And by procedure, please, Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov. Please, Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u78	Am I doing the right thing here? Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u79	Yes, Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u80	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, thank you for having a very tolerant session, but today we have such a breakthrough. In order of the day’s report, Horoshkovsky is selected. I know the first one understands this question is no worse than a minister, but where's the minister? In such a case, you must say that Minister Horoshkovsky is ill or that he has taken an urgent flight to Africa, or something else has happened, or we do not know at all. And this is one of my wishes. And the second. Finally, I beg you very much, please, follow the Rules so that there will be breaks. Now we don't know when there's going to be a break in the Supreme Council. There was a 12-hour break, and it's already disorganizing us. I'm used to tea at 12 o'clock, and now I don't have that option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u81	Thank you. Sergey Ivanovich, we will now ask you to bring tea. Dear colleagues, the Cabinet of Ministers has asked that some negotiations are now under way or under the direction of the Minister for Economic Affairs and European Integration for the Secretary of State to speak in his place. That was the address they gave me. True, it's not designed, but it's just a note. I take it that's the right thing to do. And I ask the Cabinet of Ministers to follow established rules and procedures. It's a break. I think we're working properly and we don't need a break. But I also understand that this observation is correct. We'll take a break if that's what you want. Please, Andrew School. You don't? None. Oh, there is. No, no, Andrew School. Get ready for Carmazine. Carmazine didn't make it this time, he signed up for second. Please. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u82	Thank you. Well, first of all, I'd like to support Mr. Drogunzov's replica, because we work with discipline, you know, but very few people work with discipline. I'm watching, I'm sorry there's no TV. Whatever laws we have not discussed, how good it would be here and how often it is that Deputy Carmazin is speaking properly, he is speaking in front of the radio audience, but he is very few in front of the people’s deputies, because they are very few. And that, I would like to stress, is all the signs that we don't vote on the day of the bill discussion, unfortunately. If we were to vote on the day of the bill, the presence and effectiveness of the Supreme Council would be much more effective, because those who are currently engaged in entrepreneurial activities or semi-entrepreneurs' activities in the course of the week's non-voting could have suffered, they could have worked differently. That's an honest word. Now we're talking, practically speaking to ourselves. I'm not talking to the Supreme Council, I'm talking to that group of stable people's deputies who are still in their jobs. And that's why I'm thinking, and I'm stressing that whatever we're saying here, we're talking about the transcript. And for the transcript, I want to say one more time, because I want to use this talk because it's rare to break down, to get to the rostrum at a time when all the national MPs are listening, and I hope the radio listeners are listening to us, to say that we have to change our attitude about the bill. We have to discuss them by voting instead of talking about them in a month, in two, in three, as we discussed, which we concluded and issued on the mountain. I urge all of you, all of you here, to stand firm, yet to support you. I think there's going to be a bill coming up soon, and he's said to be on his way to discussion. So that we can accept and finally and permanently put a dot. We have to vote at least three times a week. The laws were discussed and adopted. They have read, prepared, given a summary, and each of the speakers will answer, each proposed law will be responsible for the law, and anyone who opposes it will be clearly against, not out of the rostrum against, he goes there, and in a month he will vote in error for or out of any other motivation. So I'm stressing that these evening sessions, at these evening sessions, we have to make laws that no one knows, understands or hears anymore, because few deputies participate in the work of the Supreme Council. Thank you and I apologize for using your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u83	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine, please. Is Taras Blackwall ready? None. Then prepare Hinzburg. Dear colleagues, I ask that we continue for 10 minutes to complete the consideration of this bill. Is there no objection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u84	Yuri Carmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, although the bill 1101 under consideration is very small, it is important to the economy of the state. Here the question was rightly raised by Mr. Andrey School that our Supreme Council, without making any changes to the Supreme Council Rules, which represented many factions: and I was making my proposals, and the factions of Communists, and factions of most so-called factions, submitted to vote immediately after the bill was considered, it matured. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, for the promotion of the prestige of the Supreme Council, has matured to improve the quality of the work of the Supreme Council, has matured. And let's put this issue in the agenda first and let's look at it literally, ask the Rules Committee to put it as quickly as possible, because otherwise it's a campaign on Thursdays to vote. I support this view by Andrew School and other national deputies. Moreover, I also made changes to the Rules that I would like to consider. With regard to the bill, the State Defense Order Act lays down general legal principles, and article 3 of the Act stipulates that the choice of defence contractors is carried out by means of competitions or tenders. If it is not a designated contractor, it is located on executed enterprises, state-owned enterprises and organizations, stock companies, and statutory funds whose controlling stock is owned by the State. In order to stimulate their airlines, Americans even send their budget to all our delegations only to airlines that belong to the American State or more than 50 percent of their shares there. It's okay, they're protecting their market and we need to adopt this law, this law, but I would like us to agree with the Scientific and Experimental Department, which proposes part two of article three of the State Defense Order Act to publish in such an editorial: ".the subjects of the Ukrainian management of all forms of property that are the sole producers or according to the Ukrainian legislation are recognized as having a monopoly, dominant position in the markets of those types of goods that are subject to state defence orders. In case it is established that the monopoly position in the relevant market is held by several operators, or if none of the operators operating in this market is recognised as having a monopoly position on it, the defence order shall be placed on that subject in the relevant market, the share of which is the largest in the relevant market. ” It seems to me that such a project would be acceptable both in the first and second readings right away. If the Cabinet of Ministers agrees, they can file in exchange for tomorrow just before the vote. This, I think, is very easy to do. And let's ask Odie a question about acceptance in the first and second readings. And I think that's going to answer the criteria for the economy of our time, and so the criterion that we're going to be promoting government issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u85	Thank you. True, the committee believes that it needs to be further developed for the second reading. Please, Olga Hinzburg. Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u86	Honorable National MPs. 161st constituency, Hinsburg. I have an approach to this, and this bill is due to its problems. And I have the town of Six is my district, and most of the casinos are in this place. When I was preparing for my last session, I consulted with the directors of these companies. You don't always understand what this is about, it's a very complicated law. One tape says that until we made a change, the government order was placed mainly on the casinos, where there is a majority of the state fund, the government's equity package. To this day, if it's easier to say that these orders, defense orders will be placed not only on the executioners, where most of the government, but on everyone else. Well, I have a question. And a few questions were raised in a conversation with directors, such as a list of enterprises that are not privatized. And on this list of companies that we've approved with you, we've mostly introduced almost all defense companies. They are largely not subject to privatization today. Another question. What kind of companies then that carry out a defense order have a different form of ownership, which are the enterprises that now claim to do so? And what will the state - owned enterprises have to do with this? Who wins, whether it's a state or an entrepreneur? If this law is passed. Why is it accepted, just to enforce another law, or to benefit? The state - owned casino companies that are now running defense orders for a state that has a long job, have professionals, have bases today, have land today. I wanted to use this rostrum today and say so. They became hostages today. First. Land taxes, which were previously in the past budget, have been abolished, and today these enterprises have to pay. They are overqualified because they are placed in such conditions. The social sphere hangs on them. They cannot pass much on and hold on to it. And today, by accepting these amendments, we are now a state-owned enterprise, which is a time-consuming enterprise, which is supposed to count on this government order, in line with other businesses today. Is there a proposal today to uphold this law? I understand the committee approves today. But if I were to consult with entrepreneurs, with the directors of these companies, I wouldn't be in any hurry today, and I would suggest that we work out this law somehow, so that we don't have to harm our state enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u87	Please, Mikhailo Antonovich Pavlovsky. Anatoly Kirilovich, you're going to perform, are you insisting? One minute? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u88	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear friends! This is a meagre government order that is not even available for one organization. I mean, it's a penny. I, by the way, grew up on government orders, so I want to say that I have a scientific research institute and it doesn't have a single copy of a government order. We did not die because we have orders from other nations. I mean. So if today's little order is to scatter it so freely, then of course what are you going to do with 100,000 dollars? Nothing. But there's a reason to share. So if it were a big cost, if it were a billion, there's something to talk about, there's something you can do, and when the whole government order goes to about tens or there's not even hundreds of millions, that's why there's no funds, that's why it's not going to give them anything. On the other hand, we once actually had a powerful military industrial complex in Ukraine. And now I want to tell you that he's not here at all. And if we took it to the manufacturing level of its goods to everything, we could get 0.1 percent there and get it. I mean, he's not really there. More than that, as in the United States, all high - tech technologies go first through the defense order of the United States. Despite their tragedy, they immediately added a huge amount of money that we never dreamed of to support this complex. So I'm supporting Olga Hinzburg because we can't do that right now. We realize that among the officials of the Ministry of Defense, they also want to share a little with them, but today we have not reached that point. So this simple law can't be so simple, and so I'm going to move it even to re-read it so that the rest of the words can just be thrown out of there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u89	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u90	Dear National Deputies! I also decided to take this opportunity to say a few words on this point, but perhaps in a broader context. There are natural monopolies and unnatural monopolies. The monopoly we're talking about here is an unnatural monopoly, and that's why there's always a problem of limiting monopolies. It is known that every monopoly leads to corruption. And we passed the law at our time, I reported it from this rostrum, about protecting economic competition, so it's a civilized market, civilized competition, conscientious competition, monopolism being punished, unconscionable competition being punished -- that's the strategic line of legislative activity in this area. At the same time, I have some doubts about the effectiveness of this bill. In general, you can conceptually support it, in my opinion, but I have some doubts. Here some of them have already been spoken. I would say the following: the mechanism for overcoming competition is competition. This is the mechanism that's being offered to hold the competition. Of course, you shouldn't deny it, it's the right way. But what doubts? The point is that, according to practice, where there are competitions, and we already know that about privatization and other economic actions. It's just a competition. I mean, that's what I'm talking about. And what I'm saying is that competitions are usually fiction. Because before the competition, everything was captured and paid for. And the problem right now is not to limit ourselves to declarations that we're introducing a competitive selection, procurement and public procurement mechanism. That's right, but it's declarative. Our main problem is what needs to be done, what needs to be done, what needs to be done to put mechanisms in place to ensure the reality of the competition, that it's not fictitious, and to put obstacles in the way of corruption. Because of the financial flows behind these orders, there are interests. This is a problem that we cannot solve in Ukraine to make the competition real. If we want this law to work, not be paper, declared, like our other laws, we need to work out the mechanisms to turn fiction into reality. And the last. I want to respond, I cannot help but respond to the call of our colleague, Mr. Andrew School, School. I share his paphos, but I think that once again the problem is not only that there are so many deputies sitting in the session room during the discussion. I remember when I was in the United Kingdom Parliament. There were eight deputies, four on the side of the majority and four on the side of the opposition, but there were experts sitting there who were having a substantive professional conversation and who then got the right orientation on how to vote. How to vote on both the majority and the minority. Both the majority and the minority have already used their recommendations to vote. That's the problem. Well, yeah, yeah, yeah, And I'd say this to the end: the less you know, the easier you vote, the less you vote, the less you make mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Law on Amendments to Article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders on Limitation of Monopolysm in Economic Activities has been completed. The decision will be made on the day of the vote. I'm sure you'll get your colleagues right on how to vote because you're competent in all of these matters. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at ten o'clock. Questions will be considered according to the schedule of meetings. Thank you for your work together.
