ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u1	People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the system. Please register. It was registered in the 408 National Deputies Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We continue our consideration of matters according to the schedule of meetings. A draft law on the state register of natural persons is being introduced. Reporter, please, Alexander Victorovich. The committee suggests that the matter be considered for 15 minutes. Okay? I'd like to ask you, dear colleagues, how many more bills we need to consider today. Let's work effectively. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u2	Thank you, Your Honor, my fellow Members. In fact, the fact is that this bill is not the first time being considered here in this room. On the third call, I've told you three times. This is the fourth presentation today. The point is, somehow this bill is about solving one problem, one of the number problems that has arisen in the protection of human rights in our country. First of all, the right to choose a place to live. Let me remind you that a fairly inexplicable point, let's say for the general community, is the moment of the Constitutional Court's decision to recognize a non-constitutional law enforcement institution that has a long history since 30 years ago, which has resulted in a corresponding vacuum in our legislation. No matter how much we say and how many complaints there are before this bill, and this bill has a source of legislation that was developed by the national MP Lavrinović and introduced in the third call, I stress this, he means solving the problem of the registration of individuals for the replacement of the institution, cancelled and recognized by the constitutional law enforcement institution. In view of the fact that most of you interested in this bill have repeatedly heard reports and co-reports and the position of the Ministry of Justice, I will address the issues that have been raised on several occasions during the discussion. First and foremost, why the only register? Colleagues from the faction of "Our Ukraine" in the analysis of this situation made a warning that the so-called only register could be used by the Ministry, which is actually running a register today to further strengthen control. The request here is not to aggravate, let's just say this problem, because the problem in the bill is, rather, not in the bill itself, but in the actual dimensions of putting it into practice, there are others. But in my opinion, the only register is necessary, and it is necessary for the administration of this register to be carried out by the Ministry of Justice. So if we were to prepare for second reading to write this in a bill and define the body that would administer it, this is the danger, let's say, that the strengthening of the administrative functions of the law enforcement agencies and, above all, the Ministry of Internal Affairs would be avoided. Another problem. All of us have been through elections, and all of us have faced the problem of registering voters in one way or another. Different in different areas. But that voter list, which was prepared, was mildly worthy of serious criticism, because it was found that there was no way to use as a basis for creating electoral lists of any of the registers that. In my opinion, this bill, when properly approached, can form a very important basis or basis for creating a single voter register that can be used for general business, such as elections, including local elections, I mean regional registers, including parliamentary elections. And I would like to point out, in my opinion, that if we don't leave the problem unregulated, we will have not only the reministence of the atavim of the penitentiary system as an administratively permissible system of residence, which is totally inconsistent with the Constitution, but we will also be creating a basis for the corruption of the local authorities, who are still responsible for the orderly residence permit in a particular area. So, fully aware, having already had the experience of discussing these bills, its flaws, I would ask you to get back to this bill, to accept it in the first reading, and in preparing for the second reading, to prepare a bill that would solve this problem. I realize that the problem may not be solved at all, but the experience of three years has shown that only by not solving this problem are we creating additional problems. We've already experienced what we're calling for, in fact, for people to go to court for the implementation of their constitutional rights, by replacing only the stamp prescribed for "registered," we haven't decided anything. This requires a legislative solution to the problem. That's my offer to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the reporter? Please sign in. Five minutes. Let's take a look at the board. National MP Borschevski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u4	Borszewski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. I have two questions. To date, several agencies are in fact establishing a registration base, the Tax, the Pension Fund. What will be the priority of what registration will be given in connection with the adoption of this law? And secondly, I would like to make it clear that a citizen, when he comes, will ask for residence permits or that organ will simply be obliged to register and provide the relevant data that he is living in. ? Here are two questions for me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u5	Thank you for asking. The answers are very brief. First of all, those registers that are currently running, they're notable. And I hope, and in this sense of the bill, which I have had the privilege of reporting to you repeatedly, is to create a single register, and this register will be a priority. Because it's clear from the birth that the first act of registration is an act of civil registration, and that's why this register is going to be a priority. Everyone else has the right to exist. I'd like to remind you that in the first version of the law we're going to make it exclusive. Now that we understand the situation, well, we can't eliminate everyone else. We're saying it's the only register of natural persons, and it's going to be basic. And the second question. The procedure of registration, which is clearly consistent with the Constitution, is, let's say, different from the one that was arbitrary, administrative: with the consent of the owner of the residence, and you see that I wrote out there, well, all the possibilities: there's temporary registration, and shelters, and temporary housing, and so on, we wrote almost everything that is possible even theoretically, - all it takes is the owner's consent, not the one who makes the registration. So we don't preserve the permissive character of the pen that was. The owner's consent and the pen as registration in the classical sense of the term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u6	Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u7	Boris Bespaly, Kyiv, Ukrainian People’s Party Please tell me, Mr. Alexander, for the citizens of the register, is it a social service or a duty, or can you refuse to be counted? This is the first one. The other one. Still, what is the protection against possible abuse? Well, let's face it, there's still a reason for our people to be afraid of our authority, even in its, well, in all its manifestations. And finally, third. We just had a census here. We did not take the opportunity to make the polling lists normal on the basis of the census, there were dead souls. How do you propose, from a technological point of view, to use the results of an all-U.S. census to make this register? That's three questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u8	Thank you, Your Honor, Boris Jacobovich. I'm going to remind you that one of the moments that I reported this law, and its even earlier version before the census, was just an opportunity that we had at the time both technical and real to do everything. Unfortunately, both the absence of this bill and the lack of appropriate political will have led to the fact that the problem was not solved and the number of dead souls and the inappropriateness on the lists was. What is involved is a right or an obligation. I believe that any registration of a natural person, and in article 23 of this bill, we establish the responsibility of officials, on the one hand, and on the other hand, of individuals. But we're clearly writing it out. This is, for example, not a right, nor a duty, since an act of registration is a rightful and rightful one. Just like a child who doesn't have a birth certificate, it only hypothetically has the right to enter into a legal relationship, and it can't be implemented, because any institution needs to present a birth certificate first. The same thing will happen with the register, it doesn't create anything new, it just means to sort out the registration relationships that are now in existence.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u9	Sergei Matvienkov, European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u10	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Alexander Victorovich, I have a question for you. Two questions will come back. Question one. Do you not think that this is a necessary bill without question and doubt, but do you not think that it would be necessary to speak at the outset and conclude discussions on the Housing Code in order to put all points above and above? And then the adoption of this law would be, let's say, automatic in order to simply develop the moments that have arisen in the Housing Code. That's the first one. And a purely technical question. This is the amount of information that has been broken today in the register from a technical point of view. Well, it's good for two or three kids. But is there a need for this or not to duplicate these data? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u11	Thank you, Your Honor, Sergey Anatolyovich. I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that, let's say, the history of this bill is quite long, and I'm underlining it for nothing. If we started with twenty-seven indicators and we followed the right path, so we've collected everything that's registered now, we've put it together and let's register. So now we've actually stopped at eight indicators that, I think, are important because date, place of birth, sex is, in general, something you can't afford in the register. And if you look at this problem, let's say from the point of view of the Housing Code, I understand everything, and so are you and I here advocated possible adoption of the Housing Code. But, you see, the fate is that without resolving this issue, which is urgent, maybe as urgent or more urgent as the Housing Code, we can't just solve the immediate problems of our citizens right now. I'm drawing your attention to the fact that this problem, instead of a passport pass, is registered, it's actually on instructions that don't have the law or the law. Either way, as provided for by this law, or as stipulated by my colleague Alexander Markovich Bandurka's law, it should be regulated. [[I thank him for paying attention to this problem, too, and for introducing his bill.]] Otherwise, we only open the way for an administrative quarrel, and no more, and no less.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u12	Thank you, Alexander Victorovich. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Alexander Markovich Bandurka, please. Your argument about the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u13	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! If you remember, we've already considered a similar law, which is a draft of the Zarubinsky People's Deputy, which is, in the end, very little different from the bills that we've submitted for your consideration today. And I would like to emphasize that we're knocking at the door because life requires it. What is the significant difference between the order of registration of natural persons at the place of residence proposed in our bill, I mean Bandurka, Moses, from what is reported by the People's Deputy? First of all, we're not creating an additional administrative service that would take on the registration of individuals, which would require 108-114 million dollars from the budget. We propose that the registration functions of individuals within the territory of Ukraine be carried out by the local authorities of the Department of State in matters of citizenship, immigration and registration of natural persons, which is already operating as a structure represented by the city centre. If there is no territorial representation of the Department of State, the registration may take place in rural, rural or residential authorities. That is, we make the most of the complications that people have endured in connection with registration. Today it's enough to submit an application and a passport, and under a passport we understand any identification that confirms the identity of a citizen of Ukraine or a person without citizenship or a foreigner, it can be not only a passport, but another document, and within five days it should be registered. It's a big advantage when you don't have to create, because believe me, it's unrealistic to create another service today, even in the Ministry of Justice. These are the principles of registration that we want to put in the law a single system of registration and accounting of natural persons at their place of residence. The other one. To prevent the dissemination of information about a person, including his or her place of residence without consent, except in cases defined by law and only in the interests of national security, public order, health care, protection of the rights and legitimate interests of citizens. That is, if a citizen does not want the district address office to provide information about his place of residence, then such information cannot be published. We give a citizen the opportunity to get to know the authorized authorities of the state with information about himself that is not a public or other legally protected secret. And finally what I've been talking about. Creating favourable conditions for the registration of natural persons at their place of residence The law determines that temporary tenants are not registered, and their personal data and information about their place of permanent or predominant residence are temporarily placed in the records of the institutions where they came from, or the higher education facility, or the military part, or the place of imprisonment, and so on, where a person may be temporarily present. Finally, we severely limit information about ourselves and our family when they are registered. We have that this should still be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers' decision on the appropriate, we'll talk about the greatest comforts for a citizen. I'd be done with that. Ready to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u14	Any questions, Your Honor? Please sign up, five minutes. Please point it on the board. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u15	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region Next I'll say, Bukovina, but I won't say without anyone. Dear Alexander Markovich, I had a question for Alexander Viktorovich, but since you are a co-reporter or a report from the committee, please tell us how will those persons who, before the election, commit themselves to vote for a vote of approximately 30 to 40,000. If the registration predicts that it will be a national registration of individuals, they will form electoral lists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u16	Thank you. I'm not a co-reporter, I'm the author of the second alternative law, although I'm going to say that the differences are small, except in the registration procedure itself. The law provides for the creation and the budget, 38 million dollars, of a single state-owned automated passport system. So if this citizen is already registered in Kiev, then he has to vote, if not in Kiev, how can he give one vote only in the city where he emerges from the previous position of accounting. I think that this has yet to be made clear by the law on elections, which, by the way, we've been considering today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u17	Anastasiav, the Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u18	Valentin Anastasiaev. I would like to give the floor to the representative of Alexandrovsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u19	Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u20	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Alexander Markovic, you just said yourself that several tens of millions of bracelets have already been provided for the establishment of this single system of registration of Ukrainian citizens. That's a lot of money. I am familiar with all the Kabmin regulations relating to the establishment of this single register of persons residing in Ukraine. You can explain to me, especially to the voters what it takes to spend crazy money, how much energy and time you spend on this state register and on these cards. And why cancel the passport system?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u21	Alla Alexandrovna, no one is canceling the passport system. Today, nine ministries are accounting for the population. The Ministry of Justice through the Zagus authorities, the State Tax Administration through their own, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Defence, each running a few corners, limited bills. Most of them are in the passport system, what you're talking about and what's going on today has been tested for tens of years. We are proposing to leave these functions behind for the passport service, by changing the very mechanism of the prescription, which we are going to speak about, no, the Constitutional Court has deleted. Now what money goes for. I'll call them, let's say examples. 7.5 million citizens have made passports today. Is this a waste of money? Today there is a law on entry and exit to Ukraine, and every citizen has the right to refuse to issue a foreign passport. The passport reform ended, and we all issued passports to Ukrainian citizens. It also needed some funds. There is automation, computerization of the calculation itself. We've got to do the only one that should be used by all the other agencies. Not every department owns a state, spends some money there, and creates these accounts in its own way. And the passport remains, but for convenience we're introducing into the law that a passport may also be a citizen's temporary passport, and a citizen's license, if he's abroad, a permanent or temporary residence certificate, until a person has issued a passport, or has arrived to form Ukrainian citizenship. So we're going in the path of the greatest comforts for man.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u22	Mikola Noshchenko, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, and the "Trug Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u23	Alexander Markovich, you yourself have reemphasized your concern. I have a question for you. I have a job with voters, 160 constituency, a few references from people of religious composition who definitely refuse to take identification codes. Has this problem been addressed in a consensus on registration, registration? That's the first one. The second question. You're in the project predicting that this registration service is being created by the Ministry of Justice. At that time, the passport plate is kept in the passport desks of the interior. I know how government officials use it to buy new technology, equipment. What kind of cost will this whole thing go to because the Committee on Budgets has not considered this issue?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u24	Thank you, thank you, a very important question. I would like to reiterate once again that we are not proposing the creation of this service in the Ministry of Justice. This is provided for in the previous bill, and we predict that these functions will be performed by the present passport units, which are already in operation. You don't have to make a bike if it does, do you? We have to sit on it and go on it. We need to use what we have. Our bill, we emphasize this in a special way, no extra funds from the budget, no extras. Mr. Zadrodzny's bill foresees that the creation of such a service at the Ministry of Justice will require 108 million. The bracelet is extra. Our bill does not require that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u25	Thank you, Alexander Markovich. Time's up. Have a seat, please. The report invites the deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Mikola Dmitrovitch Catherinechuk. Please, Mikola Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy on 14 January 2003, at its meeting, reviewed and discussed draft laws on the State Register of Natural Persons, introduced by the People’s Deputies of Ukraine, the Roadside 2206, and the procedure for the registration of natural persons at the place of residence, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Bandurko and Moses - 2206-1. Regrettably, both bills contain gaps that will not be solved to ensure that these laws are effective. Above all, the implementation of existing projects may lead to a violation of the principles of non-proliferation of information about a person. For example, the law of the National Deputies of Bandurka and Moses does not define a system of registration authorities and would be responsible for the preservation and processing of the collected information. Another serious gap is that there are no regulations in the project that regulate citizens’ rights to obtain data about themselves and their loved ones from the state register. Taking into account the specificities of citizens' personal information, it would be very important to clearly identify the list of data that are proposed to be entered into the national register and to guarantee the confidentiality of such data, which is not included in the project. Especially noteworthy is the question of access to such information, namely, who and on what grounds can use the data collected in the national register. Although somewhat better than the previous one, the draft law of the People’s Deputies of the Road still leaves a number of important issues unresolved. The Constitution of Ukraine does not provide for the obligation to register citizens, and the bill defines such registrations as mandatory and even provides for responsibility for failure, for the timely submission of such data for registration. As Mr. Bandurka rightly pointed out, there is a different approach to financing the measures envisaged in these bills. For example, Bandurka-Moysik's bill does not require additional budget costs. The Roadside Bill requires more than 100 million dollars to be added to the project over five years. In its conclusion, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority proposes to draft a single bill using the constructive positions that are in these bills. The Legislative Security Committee, law enforcement, proposes a draft Ukrainian Law on the order of registration of natural persons at the place of residence, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Bandourka and Mosik, 2206-1, to be considered in the first reading and accepted as a basis. And the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Register of Natural Persons, introduced by the National Deputy of the Road, 2206, was rejected. Two proposals were discussed in the legislative debate of the Legal Policy Committee: one was to send these bills for further work, the other was to adopt bill 2206-1 on the basis of the relevant provisions of bill 2206 in the second reading of the bill on the procedure for the registration of natural persons at the place of residence introduced by the Ukrainian National MP Bandourka and Mosik. The two proposals did not receive the required number of votes in the vote, resulting in no decision being taken by the committee on them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u27	Dear colleagues. Are you not going to answer the question? Any questions, Your Honor? Yes. Please sign up for five minutes. Let's take a look at the board. Gregory Mikhailovich Surkis, please. You don't? Please, Lukjanenko Levko Grigorovich, the faction of Julia Timoshenko’s block.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u28	Ukrainian Republican Party, Yulia Timoshenko faction Dear Mikola Dmitrovich, I want to ask you what I wanted to ask Mr. Bandurka, but there's no turn. There's a foreign problem. People come here, say, with a passport, and they don't get permission to visit Ukraine in our consulates in other states. Their legal status is clear. And there are people who come here, well, without passports. They're violating the border, they're not protecting us, they're trespassing, so to speak, without forming their place in Ukraine. How do you anticipate applying the registration system to such people? I'd like to get an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u29	Thank you for asking. But I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that I'm not the author of this bill, and I'm just explaining the opinion of the Committee on Legal Policy. And if you are interested in my personal opinion on the matter, I am willing to give it to you separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u30	People's deputy Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u31	Dear Mikola Dmitrovic, the committee has asked the Supreme Council a difficult question. You didn't know what to do. What is your personal opinion? Would it not be helpful for the authors in their first rereading to make a single bill free of the shortcomings that are being discussed today?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u32	Thank you for asking. Unfortunately, we agreed on a committee that when we report from the committee, we would highlight the position that was declared on the committee and produced by voting. My personal position is two valid laws, but I would like to propose that the Roadside Bill be based on the right proposals of Moses and Bandurka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u33	Colonies, please, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u34	My question has already been answered.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u35	Got it, yeah. Weak Sergey, please, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u36	Sergei Slabenko, 19th constituency. Nevertheless, I would like to go back to saying that the bill has a parliamentary group, where the developer is Mr. Bandurko. You don't have to invent a bike, you have to sit on it and go. And the point is that we've created the organs of the Ministry of Internal Affairs that run this work, and that doesn't need any extra costs. I'd like to understand. These people in pursuits who do this job, what money do they do this job for to compare and what's better? Whether this is going to be done by other people, or whether we're going to leave it, let's say, under the authority of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I mean, we haven't studied this issue in the committee, but it's important and it's part of the financing decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u37	Thank you. I can only agree with you and point out that unfortunately, the budget money has already been used to form a passport registration, then a register of taxpayers for identification codes. There's a register of drivers. The voter register is currently being developed, and there is already a census register. All of this needs to be brought together. I think we need to approach the use of budgetary resources on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u38	Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u39	I give the word to Victor Vasilovich Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u40	National MP Taran, please. [[Terra]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u41	Thank you. Dear reporter! What the committee thought about that. In all civilized countries, the registration of natural persons is also ongoing. But that's where it's headed. For example, the police department is tax and similar to what we have. We have the same Ministry of Internal Affairs that has its own registration, tax, and so on. I mean, why do you have to put all the data on individuals in one hand? I could give you now the disk that was bought on Petrovka -- "09." All the data, dear friends, about each of you: where you live, what scheme of your house, everything. Now let's write in this law how many times has anyone been married, who's been sick and who's ahead of the election? Why would you do that?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u42	I still think that the only register is needed to use it in elections, and I also think that it's needed for some fiscal policy. Other information, I wouldn't suggest that I enter into this register. And what's happening right now in our market, as you say, is a prank. I think it takes some people to be responsible for spreading such information, for selling it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u43	Thank you. Time's up. Let's move on to the discussion. We have 10 minutes to talk. Please, Yuri Carmazin. Get ready for Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u44	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! What do we have after the decision of the Constitutional Court? An even more brutal violation of our rights than before. Let's call it open. The Cabin made a decision -- one that's not there today. That is what happened when my passport was taken to the Shevchenk district today. That's how the secretary brought him back. You know, anecdotes, anecdotes are a question for Opanasenko, deputy minister of the Interior, a lot of questions are going to arise, and today the national deputy of Taran is asking what is being sold on Petrovka. But that's the only thing we have to do is build a market instead of a market where everything is sold. And the information is being sold, even what is being collected today by the power organs, by the power structures. And, therefore, honourable national deputies, for that to happen, such a law is required. However, the law must reject such thoughts as were suggested by the National Road Deputies, where it is written that other subjects can be issued and so on. It is natural for individuals to publish information about another person. That's not supposed to happen! It's a state register! Only state-owned. And it should be clearly stated that he may appear to have committed a criminal case against a person and so forth. I mean, special cases. This is the first time. The second. I completely agree with the suggestion that it is difficult to compare bills at cost today, although it is clear to me that although the author of the second bill is the national deputy of Bandurka, he is the colonel general, but the Roadway bill is in its essence absolutely police. And Bandurka's bill is more democratic than it looks! So, honourable national MPs, we may need to support a more democratic bill, although in this way it is absolutely similar to the institution of penance that existed until now, only in a more distorted way. And that's why these laws on a conceptual level need a substantial, substantial transformation to second reading and by saturation, by legal protection. But we need to think about another problem today: Russia has entered the registration of all of us, none of us today. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has failed to defend the Ukrainians! What's more, they said, "Well, good!" What an act the actions of the officials of the Russian Federation, who have been encountered here, appear to be. And we will have to take similar, adequate measures today, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to comply with the legislation that has been adopted against the Ukrainians. We'll have to take it here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u45	Thank you. Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u46	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Indeed, the only register of natural persons, I think, is needed, and why? The main argument is that this is finally convenient. But the proposed bill does not convince and, frankly, they do. When I read them, I remembered them so much, once, maybe you remember, I was such a cartoon about a goat that I could count to 10. She tried to count them all, and everyone was running away from him as if he were such a predatory wolf, not a little goat. I think our people have more reason to fear our power than those heroes in the cartoon. And in this case they say, what do we do new when we don't offer new data? But, dear fellows, this is not about the mechanical compilation of existing registers. This is a qualitatively new, comprehensive record for a citizen who lacks only fingerprints. I don't know, maybe they're already in the new edition. And where will it be kept? According to one version in the Ministry of Justice, the other version is even better -- the Ministry of Internal Affairs, that is, where passports are. I think it's inappropriate to keep such registers in any government office, and I'm closer to the concept that I'm proposing and suggesting to a member of our Valery Assadchev faction that it should be based on social services. It's a data bank of type archive without any authority and its main feature is volunteering. For example, voters in the United States register as volunteers. Data not provided for by law, should not be obtained there, access may be either the citizen himself, or by his permission, or on the grounds provided for by law, and only in the cases referred to by the previous speaker, that is, in cases where a person is suspected of wrongdoing. So I think that, you know, this is how it went. We threw the pen out of the door, it went out the window, and it didn't even go into the same window, but we can see it right out of the two windows and through the fence. I think that if we agree, and I do not agree that we are bound and destined to choose from two bad choices. I don't think a pale bad guy is better than a red fly or vice versa. I think that here, unfortunately, both are worse in general, despite the fact that each of them contains the right suggestions. And that's why I think that in this case we should reject the proposed bills, not rejecting the very idea of a single state register of individuals, but only on the basis of civil society, not on the basis of the police state, but on the basis of citizens' will, their consent and access to data. And I hope that we have the strength to resist the pressure that I predict will be exerted on us. I think we should reject these laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u47	National MP Taran, please. Are you going to perform? Oh, you are, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u48	Thank you. Victor Terrence, Yulia Tymoshenko block. Dear colleagues, look what we're talking about today, or we're going back to the election anyway. We go back to the election law. I will also talk about this by referring to today’s laws on the registration of natural persons, but literally half a word. When we were here today trying to be afraid that there would be no one else in the next Parliament except for some kyans, look what was wrong, because in this room the people who came from Kremenczuk, Kremenczuk, from Donetsk, they are already kyans. They're already kyans, they're already here. And that's why making a new rotation is only because, as it were, they came from the regions, it's completely pointless, absurd. And I'm going to point out that it's under the law that would have predicted the purchase of districts, that it was under the law that the technology, the black technology, the black pyarius, that would have needed this register of data, this huge register of data that would have been recorded where you were sick, where you worked, how many times you were married, and so on and so forth. Why is all of this being done? What's behind this? Today's drafts, which I've proposed, I've got up to one point and two, I'll tell you, but I have a question: why, at a time when on November 28, last year we adopted a very good draft of the Zaribin MP, we accepted it as a basis, and he's on the committee today, and he's supposed to be on the second reading. Why do we suddenly start looking at new bills? I have a question for the Regulatory Committee, and the people on it have eaten more than one drop of salt. It seems to me that this is, after all, a fundamental violation of the Rules. And now specifically about these bills. Of course, the database in Bandurka, Moses there is smaller. And in this respect, it looks more tolerant. But, my dear Alexander Markovich, I am absolutely against this registration being in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I know there's a lot of decent people there, but I know there's a lot of people and more. And we have no right to do that. I'm going to personally give you this drive 09 that I told you about. And that's why it seems to me that when we finish the short speech, I think the best option would be to go back to the Zarubinsky bill, which we adopted in the first reading, to make specific comments on it, the specific proposals of those honourable MPs who today proposed their concept, and finally to come out, to adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u49	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u50	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of great importance. On the one hand, a register of human data is needed to solve economic, social, political issues, and on the other hand, the only system of registration creates conditions for total control of human beings. It's the main registration, it's the only system, not the separate directions. It's concentrated, it's centered in one hand, it's kind of this general, it's a complete human record, and it actually opens the way for the creation of a police state. That is the danger. I mean, it's like a good, you know, noble idea, but if it's going to be implemented in this way, it's really. poses some danger in terms of human rights violations and total control. Generally speaking, it can only be voluntary things, not forced. This may be a question that should be the basis for the register. This is a question that needs to be asked in the context of civil society. It helps to build or not -- I think it's the main question. Either we're going through democracy, or we're going through the path of legal and political consolidation -- that's the threat that exists with the adoption of such laws. Indeed, it is necessary to determine exactly what the database should be like. I think it's too broad a database. [[I've done this before.]] I'm not sure that this data is what the state needs. There's data there that doesn't need to be used by the state, and that's just something you can use on Peter's to buy or find out something -- and use it against a person. Here's the question. I have doubts and need to register with the Ministry of Internal Affairs. That's also what the MPs have said, I share that view. And what's particularly important is how to keep this data confidential. And finally, the key question is, how can we get data on a person if we limit the register? It can only be by the consent of a person if he consents, and only when a person is drawn to criminal responsibility. If a criminal case is violated, then the data can be given. If even forbidden, the official will issue anyway. What are the sanctions if the data is published? There are practically no such sanctions. We're told there can't be censorship, and it actually does. We have the same situation that we had with the pen. Parliament cancelled the bill, and the executive authorities introduced it. Therefore, we need to be very careful about the practical implementation of this seemingly good idea Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u51	Yes, your honors, your consideration of the matter has come to an end, we have even come to an end. Roman Zvaric's procedure. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. Please, Roman Zvaric of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u52	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I apologize that in such a form I beg your word. But the Committee on European Integration has considered both bills to comply with European law. On this point, I can state that this area is regulated by the relevant normative acts of the European Union. I can call them, but I can see that there's no need for that. I'm just talking about the committee's conclusions. As far as the Road Bill is concerned, there are separate provisions of this bill that do not meet European standards. Rather, they are not systemic or structural. And so, according to the committee, they can be corrected in preparing the project for second reading. As for the Bandurka project, I still have to state to the committee that it is absolutely contrary to European law. Therefore, in the event that this law becomes effective, our prospects for Ukraine’s entry into WTO and the European Union are significantly complicated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons, Entrepreneurship Subjects is under review. The rapporteur is the head of the committee, Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov. Yuri Ivanovich, five minutes, briefly, if possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u54	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The registration process is central to the legalization of economic activity, so the clarity of the terms of this legalization depends on the pace of business development. Why is it necessary to reform the system of state registration of economic operators? First. Too many legal acts regulating the registration system: 43 laws, 10 presidential decrees. In general, we are now operating on the basis of the 8th article of the Ukrainian Act on Entrepreneurship, a small article that was adopted back in 1991, and the Regulations on State Registration of Entrepreneurship Subjects. This is the Cabinet of Ministers' decision. The other one. In Ukraine, as in any European country, about 800 types of registrations are provided, i.e. every self-governance body understands this work in its own way, from the exercise to the Cabinet of Ministers. Third. 82 percent of all business entities are registered in 48 percent of registration agencies. I wonder what these others do, how do they work? Fifth. The existence of legal collegiates, the unregulatedness of certain important procedures in the course of registration. For example, the procedures for reorganisation of legal persons, cancellation of registration in case of bankruptcy of the subject, or in case of liquidation of the court’s decision, remain unregulated. This calls for a large number of changes in legislation. For example, in article 8 of the Law on Entrepreneurship, nine amendments were made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and one decree by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Fifth. It is necessary to harmonize domestic legislation with European legislation. Six. Finally determine the registrar. Several initiatives are currently known to organize the state registration system. All of them are determined to take everything away from the local authorities and put it to the center. And the main thing is seventh. To introduce a new European principle of communication between the state and its citizens, a principle called a single window. When a predetermined package of documents is submitted to a single authority, i.e. the registration authority is given an application and legislatively defined documents, and the authorities are already carrying out all the necessary registration procedures and are informing all other public authorities about the registration. So the minimum number of contacts with officials. This positive experience is already in Johno-Frankiv, Nicholas, Herson, Bloody Rose. You know that the President's draft decree on this subject has been prepared, and that gives us the opportunity to do a good job today during the second reading procedure. The adoption of the bill will allow it to be implemented without stopping the registration process and to preserve all qualified workers in this area; legislatively regulate those procedures for the implementation of State registration, re-registrations that are not currently or are not legally defined at all, or create legal commissions when applied, and of course there are many complaints; leave all procedures for the local authorities to register; optimize the single window of the entire registration procedure; establish simplified procedures for the decommissioning and termination of the work of business subjects. In order to improve the quality of the registration process, it is proposed that institutions of established registrants be appointed head of the relevant executive committee and the basic functions defined in the law of his duties, responsibility and responsibility. it will be a person who will meet the qualifications. At the same time, of course, we resolve the issue of harmonization with the European Business Registration System. We think we're going to make business more transparent, we're going to meet the requirements of the Council of Europe, we're going to apply new information technologies in the fight against crime and corruption in this area. We will provide free access to the national register of economic operators by legal and physical authorities. Now we have a bunch of letters coming to us, and I can show them to you right there. I was writing mail today, and about five or six letters came from local authorities. Everyone wants to leave one behind. order and leave the action behind. As a result of the discussions, a number of public hearings were held. A lot of comments and suggestions were made. We are truly grateful to all who have taken part in this work. And during our second reading, we're going to do everything we can to improve this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u55	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich, you too. Dear colleagues, if you have a question, please sign in. Five minutes. Light up on the board, please. Alexander the Road, People's Landing Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u56	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Yuri Ivanovich, we have long been and, let us put it this way, we are fruitfully engaged in this problem. Please ask me a very simple question. What is the meaning, meaning, and purpose of the national registration of an entrepreneurial entity? If there's a lot of them, they're the main goal, in your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u57	An entrepreneur should declare that he wants to carry out his activities. And we have to make this statement, put it in the proper register, and make this register accessible to every Ukrainian citizen, for every state institution. This is done in the world. We're going to do it, we're going to solve it. And the second. In the 1990s, we made our own system in every area. We need to get her a little bit in line right now, unify her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u58	Paul Sulkowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u59	I'd like a word with you, Mr. Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u60	Vladimir Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u61	Yuri Ivanovich, you said the register should be accessible. Does this mean that he's the only one, this register, and will anyone be able to get information about the entrepreneur? And the second question. How do you put obstacles to corruption on this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u62	It's about availability. You said the only register, that's very correct. We have a register in the law, but our Chief Executive of the Supreme Council said that we should write the only register. Yes, it must be accessible, probably for a small fee, so that anyone can find out about this subject. This is so common in other countries. Now it's a question of corruption. If there is a contact between an official and an entrepreneur, there is always a possibility of corruption. For me, it's ideal in England. It's sealed in an envelope, it's sent out, it's paid back, it's registered back, it's the best option, then there's no corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u63	Vladimir Matviev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u64	Yuri Ivanovich, we're talking about state registration, at the same time you said that the entire registration system remained with local authorities. I mean, local authorities are communities, self-governments and so on and so forth. If it doesn't work out like this, well, first of all, there's a contradiction here. Second. Will we not succeed in delegating these rights to the administration, to the same Administration of the President, and eventually it will all go central?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u65	I have a great request, dear comrades, gentlemen, friends! It's such a practical question that let's not politicize it. The whole country is waiting for us to unify and order, collect from dozens of laws and decrees, decrees in one place and make one methodological good document. We're making it. Local authorities have long been registering and will continue to do so. The only thing we're going to do is put them together at the seminar, teach them, demand, pass exams they're going to do. Thus, we will establish a basic order in this matter. I'd like to ask you very much. Let's not politicize anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u66	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u67	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Yuri Ivanovich, I am certainly in favour of your bill, I will support it. In your report, I did not hear an answer: why there was no question of a single system of state registration. These are subjects of entrepreneurial activity. This is the name of the 2048-direct alternative bill of yours, which is responsible for tax administration, if you remember. And that's the idea that all the time goes to all the media you give us, tax collectors, where you can't go. By the way, you know that you cannot enter the tax administration until you present the documents or pay the money. There's an interesting situation in the state today. The voters ask this question all the time. Give it to us, we'll be fine. So I want you to answer this question about the alternative and how you feel about this idea that's being circulated all the time through the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u68	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I didn't tell you everything. Because the chairman, Vladimir Mikhailovich, gave me five minutes instead of 10 minutes. I cut back, even took six seconds. So I did not make myself clear. Now for the alternative bill. Last night, the distinguished national MP, Coloniari, who was serving him, took him down. He's right. That's the first one. The other one. Indeed, you were present at the discussion we had at the Supreme Council on the subject of this law. There were proposals from both the Ministry of Justice and the State Tax Administration. I understand that our executives have agreed that they will no longer push. Because I already said that, a few hundred letters with the same thing: local authorities, don't touch us, we'll register, we know that better. I think that each of us, especially the majority, well understand that we do not need to conflict with local authorities, so let us live together.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u69	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. Time's up. The report invites the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship’s subcommittee, Viacheslav Volodymyrovich Dubovicki. Please, very briefly, Viacheslav Volodymyrovich. I'm asking for a half a ton of quieter discussion. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u70	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a respected national deputy, has no doubt about the need to arrange for the registration of state-owned subjects. It is necessary to immediately, clearly and consistently reform the state registration system, rule out all legal coalitions and bring domestic legislation into line with European law, create a single register of domestic business entities with free access to its information fund. The bill introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy Yehanur and Homutinnik allows this to happen. The bill consists of eight sections, which set out the legal rules governing the system of state registration authorities and the procedures for the state registration of economic operators, starting with the initial registration until the entity ceases to operate in the order of operation and the functioning of the national register of economic operators, the establishment of registration authorities for violating the requirements of this law. The draft law leaves the local executive authority with the function of state registration. This will allow the law to be enacted when it is adopted without stopping the registration process. By the way, many appeals from city heads, district councils, and city councils have been received from committees and national deputies, as said by Yuri Ivanovich, who support the adoption of the bill in the first reading, and who oppose the transfer of the functions of public administration to other authorities, such as TPA or Minustu. The draft law establishes a comprehensive list of documents submitted for state registration, re-registration, and registration. The bill has been reviewed and supported by the professional committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in particular on economic policy and governance of the national economy, property and investment, as well as on financial and banking issues. In addition, the main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has also supported the bill and proposes to adopt it as a basis. You've heard that there was an alternative bill of 2048 submitted by the People's Deputies: Colonies and Finals, it's also aimed at sorting out the state registration procedure, but it provided for the transfer of registration functions to the state tax registration, which runs counter to the task of this body, which, under article 2 of the Ukrainian State Tax Law, has other functions. Taking into account the above, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship proposes to support the draft Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Personal Subjects of Entrepreneurship, registration number 2048. These observations and suggestions that came during the discussion of the mentioned issue and that would come to the committee later, as well as the constructive position of the bill, which was alternatively submitted by the people's deputies of Colonyari and the Final, will be considered and taken into account in the drafting of the bill for second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u71	Thank you, Viacheslav Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, you get the point, don't you? Please have a seat. Let's move on to the discussion. We have 10 minutes to talk. Let's take a look. Light up on the board, please. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin Get ready for Boris Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u72	Yuri Carmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable national deputies, the people of Ukraine, I understand today all entrepreneurs, all subjects of entrepreneurial activity. They sit there and think, ‘ What are these national MPs up to? ’ Will they make life more difficult for us? I'll tell you that if we adopt the law, on the one hand, we'll make life easier for our entrepreneurs, and on the other hand, Yuri Ivanovich, we'll make it worse. I'd like to make a small remark right now that we don't make this life any worse for our electorate. I want to remind you that the Civil Code, which we only recently adopted, does not provide for the re-registration of legal persons and other persons who engage in entrepreneurial activities. Therefore, instead of this re-registration, it is necessary to write about changes in the information relating to registered legal persons. So let's ask a question. If the question is to fill the state budget with a favorite way of helping this government, and so on, I want our voters to know today that we will not allow this simply to go mechanically to the state's savings for some kind of structure. But what is proposed for the state registration officer to be appointed and released as head of the relevant executive committee of the city council or district, district, city of Kiev and Sevastopol of state administrations, in agreement with the chief registrar, is absolutely correct. In my opinion, it's completely unwarranted that in article 4, where it's about a state registry, it's written down, think, "The power to qualify a state registry and the form of state registration determines the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." Why can't you and I, national deputies, in the law write down the registration requirements? We're writing demands to a judge, we're writing demands to a national MP, demands to the President, demands to the Prime Minister or ministers. And we can't write a request to the registrar that we need to be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers? I'm pretty sure that for all of this to be erased, nothing should be regulated by the government, it should be regulated exclusively by law, because that would lead to abuse. And I'm definitely against abuse. I want to say that it's very good, and I thank those MPs who have withdrawn their alternative bill because they relied on the Tax Administration not to be able to function. I think this law needs to be passed, it's gone. And the transparency of the existence of a single register, which is asked for a word, and you have to add it to both the name and the text, it's going to provide both honesty and the output of the economy from the shadow. For getting the economy out of the shadows, I urge you to fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u73	Please, Bespaly Boris Jakovitch. The next one is Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u74	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I'm only going to allow myself a few suggestions to support this bill. Well, I'm not going to complain about his acceptance, because these licensing conditions are his acceptance, because everyone who has a little bit of business with this area knows that all entrepreneurs are going to be groaning about the complex order of registration of legal persons and entities of entrepreneurial activity that they are now. So the logic of the only window of the so-called window is what makes this law necessary, regardless of any other circumstances. One person turns to power once, and the horizontal connections between the different authorities are already their internal affairs. But I think we should move on. Tell me, please, that we have standards in fact on all parameters: there are state standards of sanitation, there are state standards of fire. Under such circumstances, why do we have to make prior reconciliations? On the contrary, if something does not meet the standards, the relevant authorities should turn to it. I think we should go in our simplifications and get rid of this number of previous reconciliations. And I wanted to pay attention to one more thing -- literally, it's a license. The law states: Many licensing requirements are included in the laws. However, the registration authorities further establish different licensing conditions. I can send, well, addresslessly, so that it's not, let's say, an attack on one of these license requirements, where they say, in order to register, let's say, a warehouse for a particular kind of product, buy us a copy of a book that means here is a textbook on this subject. Of course, the authors are coworkers of the registration body and their friends. And I think we're just obliged to get rid of these very large license terms. All of this should be written at the level of the law. But all of this is a question of second reading. And I'm also very grateful to those MPs who called off their bill as an alternative, but I'm grateful not only that it wasn't so tax-described there, but, above all, because the two bills, they were lowering the chances of adopting that bill that we're just destined to adopt on Thursday. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u75	Please, Dry, the next one is Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking and after consulting the Permanent Commission for the Development of Enterprise of the Zaporozhye District Council, and I would like to confirm the opinion of Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov that, in the mail of the Mayor's deputy, there are many letters requesting support for this very bill of 2048. In fact, you remember that two bills were scheduled to be considered, including the bill that has been repealed today. And here we have to say good words to the head of the Secretariat and to the leadership of the Committee on Prompolitics and Entrepreneurship, which this time showed how you can work with two bills with the same question, and how you can work with them so that they can be accepted here in our room. I remind you that, in accordance with article 3 of the bill introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputy Yehanur and Homutinnik, “the state registration of economic operators is carried out by the State Registerer in the Executive Committee of the City Council, the District Council” and beyond, and in the second bill, such registration was planned for the State Tax Service. So industry and business in Zaporozhye think that the local self-government authorities have been registering business subjects for more than 13 years, and they have had considerable practical experience, trained specialists, a sufficient material and technical base. Therefore, the transfer of business registration functions to other bodies, including tax authorities, will cause significant losses, both in business development and in the role of local self-government authorities in implementing national and regional enterprise development programmes. I believe that giving the tax authorities authority authority over the state registration of economic operators will create additional pressure on the State budget of Ukraine to finance the cost of creating a new infrastructure for state registration agencies. In addition, it would be necessary to prepare experts and transmit a huge number of documents that have been accumulated by local authorities for 13 years. The most positive thing in the bill that we are considering, I urge you to vote for it, is that the bill improves the procedure for state registration, re-registration and registration of changes to installation documents, termination of business subjects. Even the fact that it reduces the duration of state registration to three working days will certainly contribute to the development of business in Ukraine. I propose and call on the voting room to determine positively for Bill 2048.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u77	Cherniak Vladimir Kirilovich. Next Oneschuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u78	Dear colleagues! The idea of sorting the procedure for the registration of legal and natural persons, business entities, deserves support. How should this procedure be carried out? By simplifying, by excluding complex registration conditions and by preventing abuse. These are the criteria that this system should meet. In general, the proposed bill can be positively evaluated from this point of view. I would like to point out that this is a state registration system. But at the same time, emphasis should be placed on the fact that the State's involvement in this process should not be excessive. In this regard, the question arose as to who should register subjects of entrepreneurial activity? Maybe four choices. The first option is the Ministry of Justice. The second option is Tax Administration. The third option is the Chamber of Commerce. Like Italy, for example. And the fourth option is the local authorities. I think in general, given the whole situation, which. The whole set of circumstances, the whole situation that has taken place in our country, our country. That's the right decision. These are local authorities. Indeed, there were many letters. I personally received such letters from local authorities, and they urged us to support this idea. I think, for specific conditions, it's the right thing to do. Although it may be possible in the future to give this to the Chamber of Commerce, at least today the situation obliges us to do so. There's another contradiction, because the state registration system, the local authorities, they're state authorities, but it's local self-government. And what should be the degree of centralization at that, it's probably life that will tell us how to decide. But in general, the adoption of this bill will facilitate the simplification of registration and reduce abuses on this path and open the way to entrepreneurship for more effective development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u79	That's right, Nicholas Oneschuk, and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u80	Dear Head, dear colleagues, Mikola Oneschuk, the faction of the political party of industrialists and entrepreneurs, "Trude Ukraine". Even one fact that the bill is intended to translate the legal regulation of these relations from the law to the law already deserves attention in the sense that the bill is supported. At the same time, there are a number of comments that I think are very important to the author of the bill, because there is a feeling that he will be voted on Thursday as a basis and it was very useful that these remarks be taken into account. We talked a lot today about simplifying the registration procedure and what entrepreneurs are looking forward to. But there is no simplification of the procedure in this law. Because entrepreneurs do not have a major problem when they turn to the entity of business registration, and then when they receive a registration, they are obliged to make sure that the entity is not registered, to account for the statistics, the State Tax Administration, the Pension Fund, and so forth. This is where the customs of the entrepreneurship entity begin. Therefore, it is suggested that the single window be implemented and, in particular, the registration body is required to automatically make an electronic bill for the entity’s business activity. Then half the country will say thank you to the Supreme Council. And I think that the drafter of the bill, who is listening to this right now, will definitely take that into account and consider when the first reading is done. Two more remarks. Next. You already know that the project envisions the creation of such a special body, at least on a social level, as the main public registry with the appropriate equipment. But the functions and competence of this body are not defined. And since it is a matter of creating a new central authority to some extent, you know that only at the level of law must all issues related to its competence, its way of action, its responsibility be settled. And the last. Dear colleagues, the bill does not address the subject’s time limits, the subject’s registration deadlines, which, by the way, is even today. And I think that's a step back in regulating these relationships. And that's why this issue has to be addressed in this bill. And the last. With regard to the cost of applying for registration services. It's defined today in a fixed-sized bill, but you and I know very well that a fixed size in such cases is not appropriate. There is a need to establish a proportion of the untaxed minimum or some other way, because there is inflation, there are other processes, actually, as a financial nature, and in legislation you and I usually don't use constant size. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, the draft law has been reviewed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. A draft law on sources of financing for social benefits and related administrative expenses is being announced for consideration. Vassil Ivanovich Nadrag's reporter. Please. Please, very briefly, the content.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that this law does not imply an increase in the state or an increase in the funds for the maintenance of the executive branch, but does not refer to the introduction of additional fees and taxes in the bill. I would like to talk to you literally in a few words about the substance. To date, pension insurance issues other than the Pension Insurance Act are regulated by more than twenty legislative acts that provide for increased pensions for individual categories of citizens. In particular, such pensions are provided for civil servants, deputies, fliers, prosecutors, judges and the like. However, such payments are established in these laws, and it is not always clear from what sources these additional costs are financed. If such an indication is made, it is not always clear that a mechanism could be used to clearly divide costs between the various financial institutions. The draft law that seems to you today is designed to solve such problems. Many may object to the need for this law to be passed, arguing that it does not matter what means the pension are paid, principally so that it is paid in principle. Yeah, and it's not. The idea of disengagement of the source of funding for a pension established under various pension programmes is attributable to the need to release the pension fund from non-proprietary payments. This position is primarily due to the need for a pension reform in Ukraine, creating conditions for its implementation. In the absence of legislative regulation on these issues, we deliberately address the issue, depending on the expected availability of funds in the State budget of Ukraine, that is, we create the possibility of manipulating this money depending on the political sentiment or the need to patch holes in the State budget of Ukraine. This, for example, is evidenced by the fact that the Ukrainian State Budget for 2003 has reduced the pension fund's allocation for these purposes by 800 million bracelets, less than necessary. Although in 2000, as in 2001, the respective expenditures of the Pension Fund were fully funded from the State budget. That is why it is proposed at the legislative level to determine precisely the sources of funding for pensions under various pension schemes. The bill provides for a clear division of the payments made from the Pension Fund and from the State budget. In fact, the bill establishes the current decoupling procedure, whereby the amount of the pension is conditionally divided into two parts. The first part is defined as the amount of pensions to which a person is entitled under the Pension Insurance Act, and this part is paid from the Pension Fund, i.e. through mandatory contributions, and the second part is defined as the difference between the amount of the assigned pension and the pension to which the person is entitled under the Pension Insurance Act. This part is, in fact, reimbursed to the Pension Fund from the State budget. It is also envisaged that some laws of Ukraine should be amended to specify the sources of funding for pension and other benefits made by the Pension Fund or the establishment of sources of payment. It is intended to amend the Public Service Act, providing for the separation and specificization of sources of funding described above, namely, the replacement of the words “at the expense of the State” with the words “at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine”. Such changes are also intended to be made to other special laws, which I will repeat to date are in force in more than 20 years. I would like to note that the issues raised in this bill need to be addressed now if we are to create real conditions for a pension reform in Ukraine. And the last. During the discussion of the bill in all committees, the comments and assumptions made did not raise any conceptual objections. Therefore, including at the time of the enactment of the Act, the second reading will take into account. Please support me on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u83	Any questions, Your Honor? Please sign up, five minutes. On the board, please. Yuri Solomatin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u84	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Kyiv region Before you spoke, I had a little discussion with my colleague Pavlovski, who had his own thoughts and observations on the relevance of introducing such a bill in general. So there are polar points of view. I don't characterize the view of MP Pavlovsky, he has the opportunity to do it himself, I want to ask you. When did the committee’s discussions take place, what polar points of view were there, and what were they? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u85	Hence, there are no such contradictions within the Committee on Pensioners, Disabled Persons and Veterans. The Committee unanimously supported the bill. The essence of the bill, once again, is as follows. Today, the Pension Fund is mandated by the State to make a number of payments, which cannot be called work pensions. All the resources that are made available to the Pension Fund and therefore the minimum amount of pensions is set, among other things, the funds that the Pension Fund collects. This year we have received a situation where the State does not reimburse him for the non-proprietary pension fund. Accordingly, 800 million bracelets, without a match in 2003, have been reduced by 800 million bracelets to increase pensions already this year. The only comment that came out of principle was that the bill, when it was made and submitted to the Supreme Council, was proposed to be introduced on 1 January of this year. I believe that the proposals made by colleagues on 1 January next year in connection with the new budget are adopted, as is the case with a number of non-essential supplements.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u86	National MP Matvienkov, European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u87	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Vasily Ivanovich, well, I have a bearing on the system of reforming the pension system to date. You have rightly said that there are already about 20 laws that, in principle, have not resolved, resolved or resolved the pension issue. Unfortunately, we have only created a system that has brought all of us down, who have worked in good faith all our lives, and who hasn't worked a day, and they are standing in one line today, and absolutely, so to speak, have quit their pensions. That's what we've achieved by these laws. But I have a very specific question. This is purely economic flows of payments, economic calculation, because it is budget money. To date, they need to be justified, we need to look at the sources. How do you reconcile these points with the budget committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u88	In fact, until 2003, all the funds that the Pension Fund was required to reimburse the State budget had been reimbursed. This year, to the great regret of the search for resources, 800 million have not been added.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u89	Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u90	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear reporter, I think you wanted to do well, but I'd like to ask you: whether or not you've thought about it, how to separate them, who are going to the Pension Fund today, from those who are assigned pensions according to the Customs Code, the status of judges, the National MP, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the National Bank, the state support to the media and so on. How can we make a distinction today, since the money has already gone there? That's the first one. The other one. In conclusion, there is the price of the question. The price of the issue is over a billion to a billion 235 million dollars, so it's estimated that it's about the kind of offer that this law is worth today. It's really going to cost that much. Is that the answer to the question? And why are there no conclusions from the Ministry of Finance today? Now, I have these very painful questions, because people are listening to us today, and they don't realize that we're putting a bomb on these people's future pensions under the laws they're under.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u91	Dear colleague, I answer. In 2002, such reparations to the Pension Fund amounted to $2 billion,300 million, all of which were found and committed. This year, and this is calculated when the Pension Fund budget was approved, it required 2 billion 800 million. Traditionally, once again, in recent years, the State budget has reimbursed all payments that go beyond the pension pension to the Pension Fund. Of course we didn't do it this year, we sitting in this room. And I believe that we must streamline the situation in the laws that say that it is at the expense of the State, we must clearly say: at the expense of the State budget. The essence of the problem is one thing: it existed and existed. Today, when we de facto violated the situation this year, we have reduced pensions with you, respectively. In answer to the previous question, I would like to add. You have rightly asked the question that today a person who has an internship and earns a large pension receives almost as much as the one who has started a workbook before retirement. There's a problem. So today, when a new law is introduced, and today it is being worked out in the committee, the first problem of introducing a new State Pension Insurance Act will be equalization, and rightly so that the creation of social justice will depend on retirement and salary. And if we do not streamline today the sources of reimbursement to the pension fund of the funds it makes on behalf of the State, rather than on the basis of employee charges, then the problem will also depend, because there will be no resources to restore that difference, the real difference in pensions, depending on the length of service and wages. The law is systemic in this case. It is not a problem of the 2003 budget, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u92	Yeah, time's up. A replica? It will be. Have a seat, please. The replica. Pavlovsky’s national deputy. Please sit down, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u93	I want to thank Solomon for giving me an extra minute. Dear colleagues! Vasil Ivanovich! You're on your way, really your proposal is a systematic destruction of the pension system. What's more, I want to tell your colleagues, because the four fifths of the Pension Fund are going to be given to whom you're going to give half the employees you're going to shorten? Where do you put them? Will they be unemployed? So it's... it's... I'm going to keep thinking about it, so there's one detail that's corrupting. Free funds will be available at the Pension Fund, and such attractive speculative operations will take place. The Pension Fund has already granted loans abroad once. So there's a desire on the Pension Fund to make some money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u94	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please. As co-reporter, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u95	Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! I am. The committee considered the bill carefully and decided to support it. This is a clear distinction between sources of pension financing and other social benefits. Today, the question has been raised that this is a problem of the destruction of a work pension. I am absolutely convinced that the very thing is that by not being able to use the Pension Fund's funds for other purposes, we're going to be protecting the employment pension from being used for other purposes. He is now preparing for adoption on second reading, and a working group is working on drafting a law on compulsory government pension insurance. And we may never again feel the need for a clear distinction as to which sources should be financed. So once again, I would like to point out that the committee has decided to support this bill in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u96	The question is to the reporter? Please sign up, five minutes. Light up on the board. Manchulenko National Deputy, please, "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u97	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. As reported by Vasily Ivanovich Nadrag, the honourable reporter gave such a figure that the pensioners took away 800 million dollars of resources. And as a representative of a one-man constituency, I'm quite concerned. Is it really so and how it was done? And if that is not the case, give specific information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u98	Thank you. That's what this is about. The thing is, all the pensions paid by the Ukrainian Pension Fund are financed by the maximum pension, all those pensions that exceed its size. The National Budget of Ukraine compensates for the difference in the size of pensions under other pension schemes. Thus, Ukraine’s state budget does not compensate for the difference of 800 million this year — that is, it creates additional difficulties for the Pension Fund’s budget. That's exactly what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u99	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u100	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Kyiv district, Communist faction Peter Stepanovich, colleague of Manchulenko, has already raised my first question. And I thank him for that and for your answer. I just want to make it clear, does it touch the same budget-2003 or last year's budget? And my question is already at the heart of all of this. Please tell me, if he is released, will there be free funds after the Pension Fund has been unloaded from the unpaid payments, or will there be any temptation to launch them into equipment? And how does the law provide for no use of these funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u101	Thank you, Yuri Petrovich, for asking. Turning to the previous answer, more specifically, to the answer to the previous question, I would like to say that today the figure on the budget came back in 2003. To a lesser extent, this problem was typical of the budgets of previous years, but it was present. With regard to the release of funds. Well, first of all, let's start by saying that it's obviously going to start working since 2004. This is the first time. Secondly, if there's any money available, Yuri Petrovich, I think we're going to do everything we can to get these funds to increase the size of the work pension. Then there will be additional opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u102	Oleg Belarus, please. Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u103	Please give the floor to the national deputy, Andrew Schleak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u104	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u105	My dear reporter, of course, was also impressed by the figure of 800 million. resource bracelets. But look, about 800 million. Money, money, and money have been left behind since last year — that is, unspent — so they work somewhere, and they're getting a little worked up there. Is it true that this bill will be able to speculate on the funds of the Pension Fund or not? Explain, please. I think there's a lot of radio listeners who are part of retirement, which is pensioners of old age, interns and work pensions, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u106	Thank you. I would like to reiterate the point where I insist that the adoption of this law, by introducing a clear distinction between sources of funding for various pension schemes, provides an opportunity to protect the employment pension itself from trying to finance other non-retirement funds. Well, let's say we've been looking at a situation recently where we're looking at compensation for the costs of pensions in the increased size of aircrew personnel on civilian aircraft. And the problem is, someone would like these extra expenses to be financed, excuse me, at the expense of technology, at the expense of a nurse, at the expense of a teacher, a doctor, and so forth. This law is designed to prevent this in the future from being used strictly for the purpose of spending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u107	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Time's up, let's get down to business. Yuri Carmazin, please. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u108	Yuri Carmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National MPs, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, our citizens of Ukraine! The law currently under consideration is a very serious document. I was very surprised to see that only one committee involved in the drafting of this law was a committee for pensioners, veterans, and disabled persons. Thank them for joining him, but I believe that the drafting of such a bill has had a bearing on at least five committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, both on the budget and on the legal policy, and many other committees, and the government had to give its opinion, particularly to the minister of finance. This bill affects the interests of so many people. In two words, this is a divorce process with the Pension Fund's budget, such a non-divorced process that is now being announced by this law, all in all, if you're going to schematically explain. It's completely out of the question that some government officials, and those judges, and prosecutors, and all of them, all those who fall under this law, they counted the money, and they counted it into the Pension Fund all the time. Today, they are not being reimbursed, but instead they are being asked to write down, make changes to legislative acts, and finally, in chapter two, hidden legislative acts to be amended, which are not even described in the first part, where public budget funds are being financed or at the expense of the State budget. Like what? State officials are told to amend the Law on State Service. I quote: "Pension to civil servants in a part that does not exceed the amount of employment pension at the age to which a person is entitled under the Pension Insurance Act is paid at the expense of the Pension Fund. Part of pensions that exceed this size are paid at the expense of the State Budget of Ukraine." All of this, think for yourself whether such a law is needed, whether it creates social conflicts, or if it does not give birth. And the previous price of this bill is 1 billion 230 million dollars, that's before, I say again. I don't believe in this price question, I think it's twice as high, and I see that there are no calculations to be made when this bill is submitted to the Supreme Council. This means that such a bill is too raw. And that's why I'm absolutely against adopting such a bill. It is a lobbyist bill in the interests of the employees of the Pension Fund; it does not solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u109	Yuri Solomatin, please. Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u110	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Kyiv region Dear colleagues, when we touch on such painful issues as what is being considered, we appeal to the notion of social justice. Let's be honest with each other and to all our citizens that this concept is different. One is in the poor and the other is in the rich. And that's why we need to consider this bill. When it's stressed over and over again that there's a law on retirement, there's a comparison, and so on, and so on, and so on, with different epithets of "radian," "socialist." Let us touch two key positions with you. 165 dollars is the limit of undersecurity, and we have an average basic pension of 145 dollars. So it's not socially fair to provide for everyone, no matter how much he has invested in this pension fund, such a pension, or such a low level of security, so that a person has a decent life. And then you're going to do the differential work. Because by now we have so many rich people who will spit on all these laws 25 times because they have provided themselves with a bright capitalist future without retirement after they have finished their work and come out for deserved rest. So what I'd like to say is, first of all, we have to do everything we have to do today to get the Pension Fund out of the unpaid payments, to leave that money there, at the Pension Fund, and at the expense of that money to raise an annual or minimum pension, or an average pension to make the average Ukrainian pensioner feel it every year, rather twice a year. So this bill is very useful and very useful. If some of the deputies suggest that they are there, in the Pension Fund, to individuals for their tools, they are offered and will only be accepted for them. I don't think that's true. And if there is such a claim, there is another ground, someone has some other lobbying interests. I think this bill is one that can be supported in the first reading on the basis and for further elaboration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u111	Mikhailo Pavlovsky, please, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u112	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Hmelnicki. Dear colleagues, our radio listeners, someone insulted the Pension Fund and decided to order the state to pay this part. Ah, Your Honor, where do you give the other functions? Now I want to deny to my colleague who was in front of me. The thing is that 13 categories of people are being thrown out of the Pension Fund, and I'm going to count them now, they're not rich, they're pensions granted under the Mountain People's Status Act, these poor people in the mountains. Retirement by age has also been granted to disabled persons, wargoers, families of the dead, and so on. Here's the category that's being thrown out of the Pension Fund, the retirement of many-year-old mothers, and so on, just 13 categories. What will the Pension Fund do? What is more, Carmazin correctly pointed out that the arrival of all of them without exception with wages, incomes, and extra funds are coming in. What should we do with them? Very attractive speculative operations. What was the outcome of the Supreme Council that we eventually merged the Pension Fund with the budget and disappeared the problems that were there. And now we have to move on again, and the same government officials have paid for the budget, and so it's written, nothing changes. The only thing he's in is one place, and now he's going to run, in many places to look for his pension. Or maybe he won't. So, Your Honor, we understand that if someone at the Pension Fund is offended, let them write a statement, resign or terminate such a pension fund. That we're going to create another structure that we're going to do. It's a colossal money all over the vertical. It has to be created: both the premises and the equipment, and so on. So, Your Honor, I'm looking so excited at Vasil Ivanovich, who worked in this system and lobbies it as if he's still working today. And the point is, we should think about people, not ourselves or our colleagues. That's why the Pension Fund does it, no wonder. And not enough money, we're always going to support the budget to allocate the funds that are missing. Problems in recent years, he's on his own. He said it wasn't. You don't have to create and find problems where they don't exist. Another billion, called Carmazin, in order for this structure to be created, it doesn't have to be done, because then they're going to increase the number of people in both the Pension Fund and the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour, and they're just going to grow states all over the vertical area, pay them money. What will remain of the pensioners? So I come out of what I don't need to do where I don't have to look for problems. You have a problem writing laws, come to me and I'll tell you what topic you need to write laws on. Thank you for your attention. And this law is not even to be considered, not to be adopted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u113	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u114	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to where I started my report. I said that no additional fees, no state expansion, no new structures were envisaged in the bill. Next moment. The bill states that all the laws in which the State has assumed responsibility to pay back to the work pension they receive should also be made at the expense of the State, rather than at the expense of the insurance contributions that go towards the payment of employment pensions. So, when colleagues start telling and suggesting personal interests, you'll excuse me, over incompetence or, I'm sorry, dirty games. Today, without adding to the Pension Fund, we are depriving them of resources to increase the same employment pensions. And when we work with you for a janitor and a librarian, we have to understand that not adding from Gosbudget to that money, to the Retirement Fund, we don't give these people an opportunity to increase their pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u115	Volodymyr Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u116	Black, "Our Ukraine" faction, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! There is a problem, after all. I'd like to deny Michael Antonovich. The issue of the ratio of the Pension Fund to the State Budget. That's the real problem. We act inconsistently: we're splitting up the State Budget and the Pension Fund, and then we're rewinding them, and there's a problem of sources, payments, pension payments. In the end, our pensioners are said to be in the light of how we're going to answer the question. For them, the main thing is that pensions are paid to them and pensions are increased. But we, as legislators, have to solve this issue at the legislative level, and the government, as executive, has to do it practically. And the Pension Fund should act accordingly. What's going on now? The pension system is now imperfect and the bill has emerged as a result of the imperfections of the pension system and virtually as a result of the lack of pension reform. If we had already carried out a pension reform, there would probably be no need for this bill. But since it's very slow, it's slow and slow, some people think about the idea of the bill. It's like he's got a noble goal on the outside. It aims to ensure that pension funds are used in a targeted way. So there are sources of funding for pensions, there are sources of funding from the Pension Fund, there are so-called employment pensions, and all that's above that is funded by the State Budget. I mean, the Pension Fund is transferring pensions to the State Budget. Of course, it would be better for the Pension Fund to do this, but in these actual circumstances, if we don't support that decision, the pensioners really won't get the right part of the pension. Here's the problem. That's why I'm not happy about this bill either. But the realities of today will oblige us, as we have done, to understand these very considerations, a professional committee to support them. Although I also have serious doubts, I would not necessarily be positive and unequivocally negative about the bill. I think there are benefits and downsides, and in many ways the situation now requires a clearer distinction between sources of pension funding. From the Pension Fund, from the State Budget. And I would add a third: from the funds of compulsory and voluntary pension insurance. And if we create such a system of trilinears, then the necessity of this law will go away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u117	Thank you. Question completed. We'll make a decision when we vote. Dear colleagues who will continue to do so. National deputy Shevchuk, please. You said the two bills were related. The numbers 2105 and 3015 are discussed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u118	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We have very little time left, and we have ten short - term bills. I have a proposal, I'd like you to look at those ten bills, they're all absolutely important, but there's a bill that goes into the agenda to complete Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. It's about 2070. That could be considered today and made a decision on Thursday.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u119	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. If there's no objection, we could continue our work for 15 minutes and consider two bills: 2105 and 3015. They would be considered at the same time. And then, if it were your good will, we could consider the proposal of the national deputy Shevchuk. So the draft law amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on Electricity on Tender Principles is being considered. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy Luskin Vladimir Andriyovich, please. It's very short for the two bills there are. And secondly, your government position.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u120	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, today the world trade organization determines the rules of a multilateral trading system in the world. [[SOTO]] There are rules and regulations that regulate more than 92 percent of the world’s trade. Ukraine started the process of joining the SAT system in 94. One key step in the completion of Ukraine’s WTO accession procedure is to harmonize national legislation with WTO standards and requirements. In accordance with paragraph 7 of paragraph B of section 3 of the programme, it is necessary to ensure that the non-compliance of Ukrainian legislation with the rules and requirements of the WTO agreements is eliminated. In particular, by amending Ukraine's Electricity Act to eliminate the priority of domestic producers in conducting tenders for electrical equipment. According to the current edition of part 1 of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on Electricity, design and construction, new construction, expanded reconstruction and technological re-upfitment of electricity objects are carried out on the basis of building legislation. Electricity supplies are provided on tendering grounds that give priority to domestic producers. The draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on Electricity was designed to eliminate the inadequacy of the Ukrainian Law on Electricity to the rules and requirements of the WTO treaties, particularly the Marrakesh Treaty on the Establishment of the WTO of April 15, 94. By cancelling the prioritization of domestic producers when conducting a tender for electrical equipment The proposed draft Ukrainian Law proposes to amend part one of article 18 of the Ukrainian Electricity Act by excluding the word "priority to domestic producers". The introduction to the WTO will have an extremely important impact on Ukraine, which will mean the introduction of trade rules recognized on a multilateral basis. This step can be decisive in the process of building a civilised economy market, making more radical and structural reform, accelerating Ukraine's integration into world and European economic and political structures. The key issues in this context are the completion of the process of aligning Ukrainian legislation with WTO treaty rules, the completion of negotiations on the regime of access for foreign companies to the goods and services market in Ukraine. The development of competition for electrical equipment should improve the quality of work and involve more potential bidders while at the same time reducing the cost of their offers. This should reduce the cost of electrical equipment that will have a positive impact on the cost of electricity production. And as a result of the decline in its value for end consumers. Given the energy efficiency of domestic production, reducing the cost of electricity for end consumers is an important factor in increasing the competitiveness of domestic producers. In turn, the WTO offers quite powerful mechanisms to protect domestic producers in external markets and offers wide opportunities to reduce tariff and non-tariff restrictions on Ukrainian goods in virtually all world markets, which should lead not only to an increase in Ukrainian exports but also to its structural reconstruction. Regarding the protection of WTO equipment manufacturers, it offers effective and civilized internal market protection mechanisms that meet the principles of maintaining competition. In particular, the country may increase imports of customs and apply quantitative restrictions to avoid serious damage to domestic producers, which may be caused by excessive imports. Temporary import restrictions may be imposed in the case of balance-of-payments problems and anti-dumping and countervailing measures may be imposed to protect the internal market from subsidised exports as an effective tool for combating price undercutting for imported goods. In turn, increasing the competitiveness of Ukrainian producers, who should be able to compete effectively in an economy based on clear and stable rules rather than exceptions, should be a priority in developing state economic measures. In view of Ukraine's intention to join the World Trade Organization, the proposed bill is aimed at organizing national legislation with the rules and requirements of the WTO and establishing fair competition and the domestic market for construction, expanding the reconstruction and technological alteration of Minpalenergo's electricity facilities, requesting support for Ukraine's draft amendment to article 18. 3015. First of all, this bill, we've practically only learned it recently. He wasn't looking at Minpalenergo, he was looking at the Committee of the Supreme Council. Our view of this bill is that it's equal distribution. The energy of money. Of course, this law immediately takes away the rights and duties of the Energy Council, which is practically unnecessary then, without the need for this democratic body, the Energy Council, and the voting directors. We're against this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u121	Of course, thank you. Have a seat, please. Please. Dear colleagues, this is a reduced procedure. Please, Alla Alexandrovska, author of Bill 3015.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u122	Honourable deputies, Your Honor. The purchase of all electricity produced at Ukraine’s power stations and all its wholesale sales are made on Ukraine’s wholesale electricity market. Unfortunately, so far the Ukrainian Power Market Principles Act has not been adopted, as provided for in the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Electricity Act. In view of this, there has been a situation where the only law that defines the principle of the operation of the wholesale electricity market remains the same Law on Electricity, in which not all the fundamental moments have been reflected. Yes, the unsettled problem of the existing wholesale market is the substantial unfairness of payment to wholesale suppliers of electricity sold to different manufacturers over one accounting period. The proposed law solves the issue of equal pay to electricity producers through the introduction into the Ukrainian Electricity Act of a standard that obliges the wholesale electricity supplier to provide for each calculation period, for months, for a percentage, for a proportional percentage of the cost of electricity purchased by it to all producers, except for wind power stations, as well as for enterprises operating the distribution of the combined energy system of the country, and for the transmission of electricity to motorways and interstate networks of Ukrenergo. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security reviewed the draft Ukrainian law, registration number 3015, and proposes to adopt it as a basis. I want to say a few words of my own as the author of this bill. I don't support the idea of privatization of generating companies, I think it's detrimental to the security of the state, but I think it's necessary to make every effort to make energy work cost-effective for the benefit of the state and people of Ukraine, so that all calculations in Ukraine's energy are fair and legal. Please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u123	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Sit down. We're not asking any questions. Please, Bronnikov Vladimir Kostinovich of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u124	Dear colleagues, under Act 2105, which the Secretary of State of Mintopenergo Pavlevski has been reporting here, it is clear that we have started to move to the SOT, that we have no other way, and it is clear that this phrase about the national producer is that of the chicken, the straw seen in our eyes by the representatives of the SOT. We know with you what usually determines the terms and conditions of the tender for the bidder and for whom he prepares the tender. We know how an investor prepares exactly the terms and conditions of his loan. We are therefore confident that the development of electricity will be accompanied by the development of national energy engineering. Accordingly, the Committee decided unanimously to support the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers and to delete the phrase as non-essential from the Electricity Act. With regard to equal pay provision 3015. Of course, the Energy Council should play a key role in the conduct of electricity business. Regrettably, the Electricity Act states that the distribution algorithm for the energy market sets NCRE, and the Energy Council plays a supportive advisory role. What's he talking about? That the NCRE, as a public authority, provides a manual lasagna. Neither the generating company nor any distribution company can systematically conduct its business, plan its own production, plan its activities, as it is always possible to intervene manually in the distribution of the costs. Government money, which took place both in 2001 and 2002 and now. In this connection, the Committee proposes unanimously to adopt the bill on first reading, excluding non-systemic interference with the wholesale electricity market. Please support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u125	Thank you, Vladimir Konstantinovich. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Carmazin. Please, for or against these bills? Please explain to the board who signed up. Blackjack and Rudzkowski were recorded.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u126	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear people of Ukraine! On another occasion, our national interests will be sacrificed to the mythical cooperation of the WTO and the World Trade Organization and to a mythical introduction somewhere. Where are we going? We're not going anywhere, we're not going anywhere until we change the state's power system. Don't you get it? And we're going to do a lot of damage. The President’s decree of February 5, 2002, approved a program of action to complete Ukraine’s entry into WTO. That's what we're doing right now. We talk a lot, and here's one sentence, five words: exclude words from the electricity law: giving priority to domestic producers. All of it. There's no priority anymore. Nothing. And here we don't want it. The government doesn't want to think there's any other way to protect the rights. Let's write it another way, why don't you suggest? It's easier to rule out. Yeah, it's easier. Or should we predict something else? Let's write it down, although it's never been done. Let's assume that they're taking part in national campaigns, like, like this. Let's count it like this. Let's do the same thing, but in other words. No one's offering it. And about another bill. I mean, I'm against it. I think the people of Ukraine should be against this because they need to live today, not later. And with regard to the bill that was reported by the Honourable People's Deputy Alexandrovska. It's not an alternative bill, it's an amendment to article 15, which was before the 18th of this law on electricity. That's what I'm saying again. That's what we do in pieces. Where it is predicted that the wholesale electricity supplier provides an equal percentage of the cost of the electricity purchased during this period to all generating companies, other business entities. I think it's the right offer for Mrs. Alexandrovsky, the deputies of the Oil and Pisarenko. But there are parentheses here except for wind power stations. Why the exception to the wind power station? They too need to be developed. Then let's say this law, we're going to say that we are for everything, and we don't have to pay for it at the right time. That's why I'm supporting the Olijnik, Alexandrovsky, Pisarenko bill, and I'm not supporting the government bill. Let's just do the same thing in other words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u127	Thank you. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, please. The faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Rudzkovsky Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u128	Dear colleagues, I propose not to exaggerate the importance of adopting this bill and not to exaggerate the harm that its adoption will bring. In fact, it's a formal exclusion from article 18 of the rule on favouring domestic producers. I have to say, you know this well enough that no advantages have ever been given to domestic manufacturers in a tender. And it's practically not about losing, because it's about losing what wasn't. On the contrary, Russian, American, German, French, and non - native bidders were preferred. I can give you a lot of examples, you know a lot of them. And so it's practically not a loss. But since it is not possible to formally enter the SOT in writing in the laws on the advantages of a domestic producer, it is necessary to remove this standard in order to remove this formal barrier. But we have to practically, really help and promote domestic producers, as all countries of the world do, as the United States does, as President Bush does, as Schroeder does, as all other leaders do, and as all other parliaments do. In fact, we've practically moved from liberalized politics to protectionist politics now in the world. We need to conduct it, but it's civilized, it's normal, using our capabilities, not writing it into the law and practically not doing it. Besides, if that's the case, the tender doesn't tell us anything. Unlike civilized countries, we don't have tenders, we don't have tenders, we don't have tenders, we have tenders, we have everything in advance, it's all paid off and it's practically not a tender. So if we're going to put our efforts together to ensure that tenders are actually conducted, then we're going to support the domestic manufacturer. And finally, I think it was naive for a government representative, the State Secretary of the Department of Fuel and Energy, Yuri Petrovich, to think that the protection of domestic producers in all world markets would be provided by SOTA. No one is going to provide us with anything. The only protection in the world market is high competitiveness. If we ensure the high competitiveness of our businesses, it will be a real protection. And about the second bill. I think it can also be supported because it's about introducing a specific norm that evens up payments in the wholesale energy market. By the way, we don't have a legal solution to this issue, and we need at least a palate that would take a step on this path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u129	Mikola Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u130	Dear National Deputies! I won't be long. A few replicas of the first, 2105. This is about what, honourable national deputies? When we come out of this high rostrum, and people listen to us, and we always talk about the protection of a national manufacturer at industrial gatherings that we defend, that we fight. What are we talking about? A different article in a law that protects Gives the tender and the advantages to the Ukrainian manufacturer, and we -- wait -- we legislators shouldn't look at how the executive authority violates the laws. We are the legislators who must adopt laws that protect the Ukrainian manufacturer. This article cannot be undone. The issue of protection of priority in all nations of the world comes first. In the United States, so many of our democracies are common in the United States. There are no other purchases from the State Budget than national production. The question of the tender for everyone is whether we've forgotten about the production of our AN-70 plane, when the Ukrainian transport aircraft has all the advantages, the Germans have stood up to NATO for German production. Why? They stand for tender terms. Our plane will win because it's already flying. They have only a drawing on paper and their plane will win. Why? Because they're protecting their national manufacturer on the tender. And that's why we can't undo this issue that's already been adopted in legislation. It'll be immoral. Next. Question 3015. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that Communist Alexandrovska is proposing a bill to which she proposes a comparative distribution of the money that comes to the energy market. That's what that's gonna lead to. I'm telling all the MPs, the voters. This will lead to 80 percent sharing, giving 80 percent to nuclear, hydroelectric, and coal. This will result in 20 percent of the price of nuclear power and hydropower, because 95 percent of the price of nuclear energy is the price of TV. I mean, the solution is political. The factions are voting for rising electricity prices, i.e. this is definitely the adoption of Law 3015 on equal distribution of energy costs. If there is such a position, support it. The Socialist Party will vote against it. We're against raising electricity prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u131	Thank you. Mikhail Pavlovsky, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw the attention of experts, experts such as Black, to read the monographs written in Ukraine, which are called Globalization and Development Security. Both. Your Honor, what am I trying to say? We were in the United States and we were studying the market there. And I'm once in the U.S. at their convention saying, "Honor, you're doing it worse!" Buy Ukrainian. And you know what they said to me? Where are we going with our scientists and our production? Make it worse, but it's ours. U.S. position. In Germany the same is true everywhere. Dearly beloved, one of the village’s uncles wrote me a letter and said: “Please pay attention to the position of a minority. We come out now that we're undervalues. That's how they do it. We're cutting production, and from all over the world, we're going to the market. Transnational companies are huge, and we'll do it. They're asking us about some kind of competition? I want to tell experts and all people there are three types of competition: freedom is an abstraction that the world does not have, monopolistic, oligopolistic competition between transnational companies and political competition between countries. That's the basic. And we do. They live by political competition and the competition of transnational companies, and we want to live by the competition of a free market that is not in nature. We're doomed. So we have to fight properly for competition in our market, but to support our manufacturer in the internal and external markets, and to protect our market, as the United States does. They showed us about the metal, you see, their firms didn't do well -- they restricted everyone and didn't even pay attention to the WTO and its protests. We haven't entered the SAT yet, we've got all the conditions. We passed this law, the Supreme Council adopted the principles of the restoration of Ukraine's electronic industry. The President vetoed without argument. I got to those, and he recommends, and then there was an integration committee. You know, it might annoy the West that we want to do high-tech. Then we should not be exasperating ourselves and people. There will be no high technology, no production, no wages, all will be beggars in the West. Therefore, we need to go very delicately to the WTO, but with our production, with our goods, with our laws. No one is forcing us to adopt these laws today. That's why we have to put aside the cost, not to be afraid of the word "protectionism," because all the developed countries are applying protectionism policies, and we can't, you can't use them to prevent them from creating barriers to our market. So go buy some electricity, they'll sell you 30 cents today! So, ladies and gentlemen, we need to think, because every phrase that's here today is either we're destroying our production or we're supporting it. And we're going to come to WTO as an equal partner, not a beggar. That's our job! And that's what it takes. And with respect to the second law, one phrase literally. All you have to do is count the same price. Nuclear energy needs to be compensated, because in the future we need to ensure that radioactive waste is treated, so we need to anticipate it, we need to regulate it. And it's okay. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u133	Thank you. Now, one minute. Dear colleagues, I'd like to say that we don't have to demonstrate, in my opinion, the value of it, I'd like to support the Black People's Deputy here. We can write everywhere: give priority to a domestic manufacturer and do nothing. And if we write: it's done on a tender basis and everything else goes down, and we're going to have in our memory that we have to take the lead in national interests, we're going to make the decisions. Let's say everywhere: halva, halva - this is the sweetest thing in the mouth. There should be a legislative framework and an appropriate policy that advocates national interests. Please. I'm telling you, National Deputy Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u134	Dear Michael Antonovich, distinguished colleagues. I was one of the most passionate supporters of protectionism in Ukraine, I wrote in many programs back in 1991, 1992, 1993, I wrote dozens of articles on this subject. Now it's not about replacing the subject of our conversation. We are obliged, our government, in practice, to carry out protectionism policies when conducting tenders, as is done in all countries of the world. You look at the legislation, they don't write in legislation that we prefer, but they practically do. That's why we have to do this. Now it's about one line in a bill that annoys the WTO, and without it, it's going to be a barrier to the WTO. That doesn't mean we're losing something because we've really never done protectionism policy before. But if we are going to essentially stand up for it now, we are going to interfere with Ukraine's entry into the WTO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u135	Dear colleagues! Alla Alexandrovska, please. Mikola Rudzkowski, don't go, because there's a line to your address.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u136	Deputy Alexandrovskaya, Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I reported on Law 3015 and on behalf of the Committee as rapporteur from the Committee and as one of the sponsors of the bill. And if you remember the last sentence, I told you what my personal differences were between my colleagues and the decision of the committee that was taken. I am opposed to privatizing power stations and the energy industry in general, as described in the explanatory note. But as for the very principle of electricity payment, I say again. As long as we do not cease manual management in this colossal financial area. There are crazy fund-raisers that are not budgeted. There is virtually no control over the expenditure. That is why today the wholesale market has 15 billion grevens to generate stations. 15 billion bucks! Where are they? Where did they go? Where were they used? Uncontrollable use of funds. I demand that we adopt this law and, of course, consider the mechanism for repaying the debts that exist today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m1.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Bills 3015 and 2105 have been completed. Decisions will be made taking into account the discussion on the day of the vote. The People's Deputy of Vernigor. An urgent proposal and request is a committee on social policy issues to consider a draft law amending the Ukrainian Insurance Tax Act on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance. Dear colleagues! To the end then. I'd like to make a statement to the National MP Mike. Please announce to the session that I was absent at the morning session during the vote at the request of the deputies, but I was voted in favour of MP Omelchenka Grigori Omelanovic, the Attorney General, number 6667. In addition, several times someone has removed a card, and a national MP has stressed it. I took it, to be exact. Please take this into account, not counting my vote on this vote. So I led you to your acquaintance. Dear colleagues, you have no support for further consideration of the bill. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you for your work. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. You know, the agenda is closed, you know.
