ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please register. We'll continue our work. Please take your seats and prepare for registration. Please register. [[16:02:32]] Registered -434 I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Matviyczuk Eduardo Leonidovich, who is part of the "Our Ukraine" parliamentary faction. Let us now consider the following questions. Dear colleagues, we voted. Dear National Deputies, distinguished colleagues, we voted to include in the agenda and to adopt the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the extraordinary situation in the city of Artem and Artem district of Donetsk. This is document number 4253. The project is yours. What warnings, additions, or vote will we make? Melniczuk, please, and then Winsky. And then we move on to the consideration of the Law on Elections of People’s Deputies. Please save time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region I have this warning, I don't understand at all. That's where they beat someone, who did it, and that's where the warehouse burned down, and people got hurt. And all we have to do is look for funds and compensate for the mess that's happening in us, in the same department, in the Ministry of Defense or the Armed Forces. We're not going to take those 16 million out of the sky. We're going to take it from somewhere else and give it to those who have suffered from the fact that there are officials, warlords, generals in the heathens who go and are personally responsible for the matter. I will support this determination, as will my colleagues. But there is a warning that those responsible for these cases continue to be held accountable in the territory of our Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u3	Thank you. Joseph Wynsky, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, then, I see, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u4	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to pass the word to Rudzikowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u5	Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to support the People's Deputy Melniczuk. We need to take this decision, but we must, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask you, as Head of the Supreme Council, to entrust the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Attorney General with the situation that has arisen around the warehouse. First it was stolen, and then, when the issue of verification arose, it was taken and set on fire and torn apart. Again, they say the flags are to blame. They must be released, as a minimum, to a couple of generals, then order the Ukrainian Armed Forces with weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u7	Vladimir Leschchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u8	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Of course, there is a need for people to grieve and make a decision. But it would take a government to inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine about this situation. That's one thing. And the second. The draft decree states that we are obliged by the Cabinet of Ministers from the Reserve Fund to allocate the corresponding amounts. According to valid legislation, the Cabinet of Ministers owns a reserve fund. As the Supreme Council, we can give a political assessment of these events and recommend the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u9	Thank you. Just a minute. We're about to finish. Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u10	Dear colleagues! Volodymyr Mikhailovich, only because of the draft decision. Today, I just haven't been able to prepare even a project on unacceptableness. The point is, we are not against the artemistic help of the people who have suffered there. Definitely for. But the decision itself is essentially totally unacceptable: not a word about responsibility, not a word about the investigation of basic crime, not accidental arson, not the theft of ammunition, not a word about arms control, which has been exported from there for more than 2,000 tons of weapons that have been exported and sold somewhere, and we don't know where the 10 million and 6 million have been taken from all the channels and everywhere there are allegations that the damage to the urban economy is 3 million. So it's simple. You can't talk, but I wouldn't want there to be speculation that we don't seem to support the people of Artemis. We don't support a gang decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u11	Mikhailo Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u12	Mikhailo Kosov, Reform and Order Party, Victor Yushchenka faction "Our Ukraine." Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I have a specific proposal. Let's divide this by two parts. One part, I don't think anyone in the room would object, has to do with material aid to the people of Artemiusk who suffered, we've seen the effects of these explosions on television. So, really, people are innocent, people need help. That's one decision. But we will go back to the second decision, and this situation needs to be studied very carefully and really evaluated by those who have caused such tragic consequences. As for help, let us really vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u13	Yuri Carmazin. Then Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u14	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenka's Block of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! You know very well that the budget year is ending, and now we have to make changes to the State Budget Act or. to amend or then adopt a decision from one of the points of “Take urgent steps to entrust the Government with the necessary assistance”. And the government -- the second item -- is to make calculations on reconstruction and proposals before making changes to the Ukrainian State Budget Act. Maybe it takes not 16 million, maybe 36 million, and not just Artemian, but Kerch’s colossal warehouses, but Odessa’s colossal warehouses, and West Ukraine’s colossal warehouses need a circle. Now you understand why it was necessary to pass a law on weapons, respected friends. Because we don't have anyone in charge of weapons today. In this way, the final decision cannot be made; it is not economically justified. And the government doesn't say, and the budget committee doesn't say, the financial committee doesn't say, so let's do the math.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u15	Thank you. Katerina Vaschuk. The frost and the Cloak and we'll be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u16	Dear colleagues! Catherine Vaschuk, Ukrainian Agrarian Party We usually understand what needs to be done today. There is a specific situation and a particular community, namely the city of Artem, needs to be helped. But I stand by my colleagues who say it would be good if there was a point in this decision that our Armed Forces often have extraordinary situations, and with the arrival of a new minister, we believe that something can change, but let us still commit them to carrying out the inventory of everything that the army has. We need to know clearly how much help and where it needs it first so that it does not repeat itself. Instead of increasing the authority of our Armed Forces, our children and grandchildren should serve there. We're working on a negative, and that's not what we wanted. This is our Ukrainian army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u17	Anatoly Frost and Clovis. Anatoly Frost, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u18	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Communist faction, Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, very much said by our fellow MPs, and I support the idea that really those people who have suffered as a result of this insolence in the Armed Forces of our country should be helped. But really, what we're always in a hurry to do. You see, as soon as something goes by, in Brovar the fault is clear to whom, then the plane was knocked down, there during the holiday maneuver of the plane and so on, here again on account of perhaps the fault of the officials. We have to figure it out first, bring it to the Supreme Council, tell who's to blame eventually, and then let's somehow patch up the holes that we've created as a result of the lack of ownership. So I think we really need to divide it into two, on the one hand, to help people, and on the other hand, we need to commit the Ministry, the Attorney General's Office, to deal with the matter. You can't do that either. It's going to continue with us until, I don't know, until now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u19	Thank you. Andrey Kluev, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u20	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, unfortunately this accident took place in my constituency, this is the city of Artemovsk and Artemovo region. In fact, the city of Artemovsk and the Artemov region suffered a missile-arthillery strike during the day. Injured 140 living multi-storey homes, 156 private homes and 48 social facilities, schools, kindergartens, hospitals. Some objects are now of the same kind as after the Stalingrad battle. Therefore, I ask you to support this order and allocate 6 million to housing and utilities for reconstruction. The area is helping itself; it has already allocated 8 million. But the means, because winter is coming to cover the roofs and glare the houses and everything else, it takes another 6 million. That's the first part. Part two for the Ministry of Defence, for the Ministry of Defence. There are still one and a half tons of ptear-like ammunition left, which have actually been in the detonation zone and need to be removed and disposed of. This is even more dangerous in transport than in the transport of conventional ammunition. Of course, it is necessary to allocate funds to acquire the specificities of these activities in order to clear the remaining one and a half thousand tons. Five hundred yards from nine-storey housing units. I have a request for support, please, this order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u21	Dear colleagues! I'm asking for your attention. In view of the suggestions made by the people’s deputies, I propose that the draft decree be supplemented by such paragraphs. And we'll put it to a vote right away. Listen, please, I'll read it. Recommend to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to conduct a comprehensive, objective investigation into events in the city of Artemis and to inform the Supreme Council on a monthly basis. The second item to add. Instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to conduct military inventory and report on the results to the Supreme Council by December 15, 2003. Do you agree with these suggestions? And property, possession of military weapons and technology. I'm voting on a draft decision taking into account proposals in general. Please vote. [[16:16:15.]] For 321 Copy that. Domansky's microphone. I've put it all together, my dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u22	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I understand the passions surrounding this case, but don't let the Minister of Defense be gold if there's no money to keep the warehouses. It would therefore have to be recorded that for 2004, all the needs of the Ministry of Defence would be met in order for them to be able to store, store, and so forth all ammunition stores.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, this is a very good offer. Let's do our best, if we can, in the budget of the article -- finance the Ministry of Defence. Well, we can't decide here. It's a decree, we need to adopt a law. I'm voting on adoption as a whole. No, that's what we've already voted on, and I've put it to a vote right now. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question -- draft law on the election of Ukrainian national deputies. Anatoly Matvienko, following the procedure for dealing with the matter. Please. I ask the Secretariat to finalize the draft ruling with the initiators and prepare for signature.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, we are looking at a very important project. I would like to inform you on behalf of the committee that, unfortunately, due to the fact that Asadchev’s project came to the committee only on Thursday, after the committee could no longer meet last week, and the Hubsky project came to the committee today. So I inform you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, as Head of the Supreme Council, that we cannot consider these two bills in accordance with the Rules. And so on behalf of the committee, I'm addressing the drafters of this bill, Mr. Assadchev and Mr. Hubsky with proposals to remove these bills today because they violate certain procedures and consider two bills that have passed due process and hearing on the committee. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to ask the authors of these bills with a proposal made on behalf of the committee to withdraw these bills as authors today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u25	Unfortunately, or fortunately, I can't offer it, I'm just a national MP, let them express their position. Please, Valérie Assadchev, if he takes it off, withdraws his bill, we will not consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u26	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the point is that my bill has been followed and previously with the committee's draft, and I've already taken my bill in favour of the only project on a proportional basis. So there's no big deal for me to take off right now. I'm filming my bill. And yet the only thing I'm asking is that if a bill is passed that is supported by a committee so that it can take as much as possible into account the proposals that are contained in my bill, because I think there's a lot of right proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u27	Thank you. I ask the committee then to consider the proposal of the national deputy Valery Assadchev. Please, Alexander the Road, microphone. and
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u28	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! The thing is, this bill, I have the honour to be, my last name is second, but this is a consolidated faction decision that has been discussed several times. We are deeply aware of this problem, and we have obviously taken care of it. So this bill is not the product of the Hub Road, it's a piece of collective creativity of our entire faction. The faction has decided to draft a bill. I can't take it alone. There is no such decision now, after consulting colleagues. That's why we're not filming the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, we have two approaches: either postpone or consider today the three bills that have been tabled, or wait for the committee to make a decision. What do you think? Is that what you're talking Well, let's take a look. Please, Pehota.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u30	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I think it would be appropriate today to postpone the consideration of these bills in connection with what has been submitted to the Constitutional Court 3 references, or 4 petitions, regarding the fact that the new elections of the national deputies will be held on a proportionate basis. The consideration of this issue in our room is nothing more than the pressure on the Constitutional Court. So it would be ethical and literate, and it would be right to put it before the Constitutional Court. And then maybe we should put the only project in a package with constitutional reform so that we don't have any suspicion that someone is cheating or not voting. Vote in a package: both elections and constitutional changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u31	Thank you. The offer, obviously, is heard. But then we have to cancel the decision of the Conciliation Board by voting. Please, the committee. And let's either consider or discuss other issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u32	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, right to be elected Supreme Council, I think I could make a compromise proposal on behalf of the committee. Since Mr. Roadway and Mr. Hubsky approached me, they said that tomorrow they were ready to submit the bill to the committee for consideration, perhaps today without the Committee's conclusion to hear the information, the committee will consider their bill tomorrow and make its decision. And we'll vote anyhow on Thursday. In this way, on Thursday, the Committee will inform the Supreme Council of the decision taken by the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u33	It's expensive. And now we're going to figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u34	Thank you, Your Honor Anatoly Sergeiovich and Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich. There is one doubt. In support of such a proposal, there is doubt as to article 89 of the Constitution, so that your committee will then have no reference to the fact that this bill is contrary to the Constitution without the conclusion of any committee to be considered. Clearly, there is a question, an organization of work. But we would like there to be no obstacle to discussion later. Previous consultations show that the bill is supported and would not want to lose that opportunity from formal moments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u35	In order to maintain the regularity of the national MPs, I am putting to the vote a proposal that has been made to postpone the consideration of the matter, such as by his committee, that is, Friday. I put it to a vote, well, by vote, that's it. Please vote on the transfer of the matter to Friday, pending consideration by its committee. [[16:23:54]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Let us now consider the draft Law on the Election of People’s Deputies. This is probably a five - minute rule for reporters, five - minute answers to questions, a committee head in a similar manner, and then a discussion of what remains. Is there no objection? Within 45 minutes, I mean. Are there other suggestions? None. So we're working to make sure there's no dissatisfaction. Please, Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u36	Honourable National Deputies, proposed by Law 3425, are a classic law that proposes the election of national deputies to the Supreme Council for a proportional system. The election of deputies is carried out according to a proportional system. The MPs are elected by election lists of candidates from political parties, election blocs of political parties in a multi-mandatory national constituency. The number of elected national deputies is determined by reference to the Constitution, 450 national deputies. The bill proposes to hold elections for 120 days. Elections and electoral systems are formed from the Central Election Commission, 225 territorial election committees and district election committees formed by representatives of political parties and electoral blocs. It is proposed to increase the role of public organizations that can be observers at polling stations. It is proposed not to limit the electoral fund, but to introduce a concept such as one stockpiling account and 225 distributions that will allow the financing of electoral campaigns throughout Ukraine and will deprive or encourage the use of funds from the black register. On the second reading, I think we'll come up with a joint decision on the committee to allow and take, as it were, cash payments. Legislative guarantees for equal access of parties and blocs to the media are being established, a mechanism is being put in place to ensure equal participation of representatives of parties and blocs in electoral committees, to enforce the right to complain about illegal all subjects of the electoral process, and to increase procedural time limits. The bill improves a number of standards related to the development and refinement of lists. In particular, I would like to stop at the fact that this bill is a classic bill and proposes to the Supreme Council for a proportional system. In fact, half of the national deputies were elected to the Supreme Council in a similar system, and there is the trust of Ukrainian citizens in this system. This is also important in the adoption of the law. This law is dealt with by the Central Election Commission, experts with the appropriate Ministry of Justice. Before the second reading, there were suggestions by some national deputies to introduce and write down the law in order to make it clear that 20 percent of the national deputies should also be women on the lists. I think we can agree on that on a second reading. I refer to the people's deputies, especially the majority. You put 292 votes in the bill to the Constitutional Court, which clearly states "the proportional system of elections in Ukraine's new political system." When this bill was being passed, he meant that we were implementing a complex political reform. It's also the adoption of a law on proportional elections, it's part of political reform. And it's the classic pattern. I appeal to you to call the law proportionate and to propose the adoption of a majority law, as some national MPs suggest. You don't even have to, I'd say, embarrass the Supreme Council, because Ukrainian citizens will definitely be able to do that, and the responsibility of those people will be very high, because we're handing over authority to the Supreme Council, and so if we don't form a majority in the Supreme Council with a classic proportional election scheme, we're going to have anarchy in the state. I'm asking you to pay attention to that. And I think that the MPs should stop acting like brides who want to go under the crown, but don't lose their virginity. If we're talking constitutional reform and we're writing about it in the changes to the Constitution, we need to adopt the law and be consistent. This position, I think, will be the majority of the opposition deputies. Without the introduction and adoption of the law on proportional elections of no language can be spoken of and the adoption of changes to the Constitution, this is part of the political reform and the electoral law must be adopted first. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u37	Honorable colleagues are likely to be questions to the reporter. Please sign up. On the board, please. Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. I understand, Catherine Timothy, you'll have a question about why 20 percent, not 51. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u38	Yes, that's right, Vladimir Mikhailovich. It's still testimony to one more thing that we're going to Europe, but we're going through another corridor, not like all civilized states. Today we have completed the work of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of Ukraine-Poland. So they have 30 percent of the women in law, 50 percent of the women in France. We are not so much, we do not have the great hope that our husbands will be so generous, we have had a purely manly authority in Ukraine for 12 years. But you can't see that 50 percent of the womanhood of Ukraine, and it's represented in all branches of government is not enough. I am submitting, on behalf of the civil parliament, women of Ukraine, a proposal to write, as requested by all women and the Ukrainian Women's Council, at least 30 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u39	It's a wish. You agree or you don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u40	Dear Catherine Timofievna, I support your position in increasing the percentage of women in politics and in the Supreme Council. But what we need to do is, in order to increase the percentage, move consistently so that the current Supreme Council can support it. Indeed, the Council of Europe has asked a hard question, including in relation to Ukraine, that the delegation of each state to the Council of Europe should include one as a minimum woman. Attention was also drawn to the lack of proportionality of representation in the Supreme Council or the legislative body of the number of women in the state. In fact, in countries like Sweden, for example, every other woman on the electoral list. And of course before that, Catherine Timothy, we need to move. I'm still calling your attention to if we write down 20 percent, but we're not going to write a percentage, but we're going to write a second reading each, one out of five every five, Catherine Timofievno, we're going to guarantee 20 percent will sit in the next Supreme Council. I think it's going to be a great victory for all who stand in this position. And I support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u41	Galina Harmash, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u42	Please pass the word to Winn. But as a woman, I want to say that this 20 percent doesn't satisfy me either. And I want to say that women are also human.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u43	Thank you. Joseph of Viennese, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u44	Wynski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Mikola Mikolaiovich, unfortunately, you did not make a clear political assessment of the situation in your speech. I'd like you to express your position more clearly. We today have in the Supreme Council a year and a half after the election to the Supreme Council a level of confidence in the Supreme Council of seven percent of the population, i.e. the higher legislature has absolutely no actual political support among the population. This is a key political contradiction that exists in Ukraine and that is hampering the whole process of development. Is the law proportionate, or will it have a positive effect on this situation? I'd like you to make this clear to both the national MPs and the voters.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u45	I'm more than convinced that the adoption of a proportional law will enhance the authority and image of the National Deputies, because in the Supreme Council, a clear majority, a coalition that takes a clear political position, will sign a coalition treaty and take a consistent position by taking steps. To this day, there is no such possibility for national MPs. And there is no way for voters to identify the conduct of their senior deputy in the Supreme Council, except in rare cases when they come out of the Supreme Council's rostrum. Once again to Comrade Harmash, a party companion, I would like to say that I take your words as a proverb, as Father says to his son: ‘ How do we get the money, how do we buy the cow, how do we get the milk, how do we make the cheese, and how do we get the food? ’ So now, you're saying you're not satisfied with 20 percent. Let's take 20. If there's room support, I'm ready to ask questions on second reading and 50. For the second reading, I suggest, Catherine Timothy and other women who stand up for this position, or men, please bring it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u46	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u47	Make adjustments, and we will consider them on a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u48	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u49	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] Mr. Mikolo, before I ask you a question, I want to say that I support Mrs. Vaschuk and Mrs. Garmash in that women are also people, and I pay my respects to Ukrainian citizens who are women. Questions. Please tell the MPs to choose from political parties and blocs. I wonder how you appreciate this rule as a member of the Socialist Party: the percentage of overcoming Parliament for the party and for a block that combines several parties with one number, is it a democratic norm or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u50	In our view and in my capacity as author, of course, it would be advisable to increase the percentage for the blocks. But I think this is a matter that needs to be discussed, including on the committee, and I suggest you make this proposal for a second reading. I think we need blocks to have a higher percentage than political parties. By the way, this is the practice in all without excluding European states - the bloc has a higher percentage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u51	Yes, thank you. Mikola Mikolaiovich, time's up. The national deputy of Ukraine, Stepan Bogdanovich Gavrish, as the author of the bill, has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u52	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! We are going over and over again to discuss the most difficult, perhaps problematic bill -- the election of Ukrainian national deputies, which defines not only future elections to the Supreme Council, but also the fundamental political history of Ukraine for future times. The bill introduced for your consideration, which I am presenting on behalf of the People's Deputies, Ioffe and Dashutin, introduces an electoral model that consists of three main components and is based on the fact that the philosophy of the electoral system should not violate the philosophy of the rights and freedoms of electoral citizens. The logic of the bill is clear and clear. The parties and the blocs are putting up one candidate for national MPs in each of the 450 constituencies. This electoral list is registered in the Central Electoral Commission, the order of the candidate number on the list is purely formal. And the main thing is that the percentage of votes that gets the party in the election on the run-off of this candidate from the county party. At the same time, when the list of candidates for the national party is approved, the political party determines which five of the most sign candidates will represent, as it were, the face of the list. And according to the results of the election, this five takes place automatically in Parliament. This procedure is that in the case of a party participating in the distribution of mandates, these candidates become national deputies regardless of the results of the vote for the party in their technological constituencies. This pattern is shaped by the fact that many countries of European democracy have followed this path for more than half a century. These are countries like the Netherlands, Austria, Belgium. Voting takes place according to conventional technology. The amount of votes that the party candidate has won is arithmetically summed up, and the number of votes received by the party is determined. In line with the bill, it is proposed to create a 5-percent transitional model, which is calculated from the number of voters who came to the election and the number of votes that the party received. The introduction of such an electoral model will increase the responsibility of political parties. It will bring Ukraine's proportional electoral model to a European level, increase the trend towards Ukraine's development as a country of pluralist democracy. And each member of civil society will decide for himself who he wants to elect to Parliament. It is likely that this will be delegated by a party of individuals with a defined position that will really defend the interests of the electorate in the Ukrainian Parliament. This ensures the implementation of Article 76 of the Constitution. The bill has been drafted as much as possible to modify modern European electoral laws into Ukrainian realities. It has two main goals: the first goal is to build in Ukraine together with so-called social and political parties and essentially parliamentary parties. They will have different options in terms of choosing tools to implement their policies. At the same time, they will adhere to the principles of the construction of the Ukrainian State, using either parliament or the political position of society. Second target. It's to maximize the interests of the parties, their programs to national priorities, to do the will of the Ukrainian electorate. The proposed modified electoral model is very proportional, since authorized workers working in circuits gather votes for a single party treasury. Therefore, in the territorial district, it is not the person who won the largest number of votes but the party that presented the electoral barrier and whose representative won the largest number of votes in the district. The bill that we have drafted is based on the fact that for an effective and fair electoral system the electorate votes first for a person, not for a party, for an idea, not for an ideology, for himself, not for a candidate, for the original, not for a forgery, for a particular purpose, not for a banal truth, for values, not for those, for an active candidate, not for a passive one, for whoever wins, not for a loser. These are the basic principles of the progressive electoral system that are of French origin and have become an axiom of world electoral legislation. According to a personalized proportional electoral system, the electorate is given the opportunity to vote for the party by voting for the party's representative. Otherwise, with closed lists, we tie our eyes to the electorate, and they vote at random. This model gives a modern answer to the question: does the MP represent only his constituents, or does the nation as a whole? This is clearly resolved in the Constitutions of all the democratic countries of the world. Of course, it's also about choosing the type of political democracy. It should be consensual, pluralistic in spirit and representative in this case. Otherwise, we will have to talk about what it is that political parties, if they monopolize the right to represent the Ukrainian electorate, will conduct, on his behalf, policies in the Ukrainian Parliament. I think that a bill with closed electoral lists, a representative body from the Ukrainian people, will increase the conflict in the system of power itself. To conclude, I want to say that the benefit of the bill that we're proposing is that the party forms an electoral list, but the MP's seat is defined by the electorate. That's what modern European democracy is all about. We want as many beautiful Ukrainian women as possible in the Ukrainian Parliament. And it is this bill that gives every woman the right to receive the support of the electorate in her district by coming out of the political program and going to Parliament to make our male disputes a matter of national and responsible national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u53	Dear colleagues! Let's sign up for a question to Stephen Bogdanovich. On the board, please have a name. Bogdan Kostinuk, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u54	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear reporter! Tell me, you just said that your law would provide some percentage of women in Parliament. As the previous bill can provide, I understand. How your law can ensure this is completely unclear. The electorate will choose the MP, not the system itself. That's the first question. And, by the way, second. What kind of quasi-majority law can you call a proportional law?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u55	Thank you. I didn't say a word about the percentage of women in my bill, stressing not only the political position of competing them in specific technological constituencies and no more. As for the second question, from a political point of view, I think you're making a mistake, saying that this is a quasi-majority bill. We can in any way assign a label to any problem and think it's the right definition. The bill that I'm proposing to you is classic-proportional, it can be said that it is the main compromise that we will sooner or later sign in this Parliament between the majority and the amazingly proportional system that is being tried today to impose on the Ukrainian nation when the electorate chooses not members of the legislative institution, but rather the public organizations that call themselves parties to allow the next to usurp power, impose an imperative mandate, etc. So I think that the dialogue on this issue will allow us to understand that we are representatives of the Ukrainian people, and it is the Ukrainian people that have to define the seat of the deputy on the list of parties that are going to win the elections to parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u56	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u57	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Stepan Bogdanovich, I am a firm opponent of all the closed lists of the proportional system, and I remain, no one has convinced me yet that for the people of Ukraine it is better to form a mind, honour and conscience here somewhere in Besarabica or in Krestatika, not in Zaporozhye, not in Herson or in Mikolayev. Please tell me whether your bill, the position of your bill as well as others have been tested in election assemblies, in large labor groups, in public assemblies, in political parties, in political organizations, in public organizations, or whether it's just a "foet of imagination" and in party desires. Save yourself here forever?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u58	As far as my bill is concerned, we've done a lot of round tables, including training with different social organizations, which fully support the exact model when the electorate has the right to intervene in the list of parties that are winning the election when the electorate forms this system. And I agree with you that the closed model reminds us of the distribution receivers of Soviet times when specific lists have determined the possibility of getting a certain deficit. Today, power becomes a deficit and the effort to fight for this power is a source of deep concern for civil society. I think that our policy should be not only transparent in its intentions, but also in the principles that we put today in the type of election model. The type of election model is a classic moment of development and national and political Ukrainian history. If we're wrong about this, we're going to go back to developing an oligarchic society, where some oligarchs are going to increase their position with political influence on power, having the right political groups in the Ukrainian Parliament. You realize that such a relationship will be impossible for us in the near future to do so would be unfair and unfair.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u59	Basil Nadrag, National Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u60	Dear Stepan Bogdanovich! As a senior, I'd like to say two things. First. Thank you very much, you're one of the few who, when they go to the rostrum, doesn't tell us that everything is evil in this country from the majors. And I go to the county, talking to people, and I'm very sorry to hear other conversations and an assessment of the population, that as a politician, as a list MP, they've already forgotten who's there and who's there. But on the other hand, I would like to make a conceptual statement that I believe and actually support the electorate who are coming to the reception, the specific living present-day average citizens. Until we realize today that the party is an opportunity to maintain the elite political influence of two, three, five, ten, political influence, there will be no interpretation. Therefore, respectable Stepan Bogdanović, with great respect for you personally, I cannot agree with you because I believe that if we move away from the majority situation, when the electorate sees his electorate and all of this is purely party, there will be no interpretation in this country, to the greatest regret. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u61	Thank you for your honest position, but we're still going to have to sign a compromise on the political structure of society where political parties of the parliamentary type become the main leaders of national interests in Parliament. As far as a major model is concerned, I think our discussion in this room shows that we will probably not be able to protect it, even though I am a classic majorist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u62	Thank you, Stepan Bogdanovich. Time's up. Let's move on to the next bill. Valerius Mikhailovich withdrew his bill. Bogdan Hubsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u63	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The main objectives and objectives of today's political reform are to continue the course on the democratization of society, the construction of the market economy and the creation of a very effective system of social protection for the population of Ukraine. It is in order to successfully address the set of challenges in this direction that we need to consolidate the activities of all branches of government in the state and, in particular, to consolidate efforts in this direction of the Supreme Council. It is clear that this goal can be achieved if a particular electoral system is put in place to ensure that Parliament is clearly structured on the basis of election to the Supreme Council of those political forces that are the most supportive in our society. Of course, if we carefully analyze the core system and the party list election system, it will be obvious and clear that each of these systems has both its advantages and its shortcomings. And that's why we're offering a system that combines the most positive features of a proportional electoral system with the ability of regions to choose their representative to be a higher legislator. The national MPs elected in the majority districts today know how important it is for people to address their protagonist with the urgent problems that exist in the district. And each of the regions, we also know, has its own features, has its own preferences, has its own problems, which, apart from the representatives of this region, no one really knows. And that's exactly why we've been trying to preserve the most positive features of both systems, which will be just the best and most important step in building really, I really stress, the democratic system of elections that exists in the most developed and civilized countries in the world. In fact, the adoption of the Law on Elections in New Agendas will be a real fill of steps towards building and integrating society in a European direction. The purpose of our bill is to give more constructive cooperation and to distribute political responsibility for the state of affairs between the branches of government and to build civil society in accordance with world norms and standards. Well, first of all, the bill provides for the establishment of one-maned districts in numbers corresponding to the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but only then, I emphasize this word -- exclusively political parties form electoral lists by creating a constituency list and putting one candidate in each constituency. Candidates will go to the district not with their own personal program, but only with the program of the party that put them out. And it's the parties that are going to provide financially, because funding is going to go solely to the Party Funds, and it's going to ensure that the pre-election campaign is conducted for the candidates they put forward. And we are sure that this will contribute to the structure, the political, I stress, the structure of society around powerful political parties that will be able to assume political responsibility for the consequences of their activities. Secondly, we are proposing a series of norms aimed at improving the electoral process and increasing the transparency of the electoral process. So it's suggested that essentially, up to 10 million dollars increase the electoral fund's electoral size, but at the same time strengthen the state and public, which is very important, public control over contributions to the electoral funds of the parties. This includes the need to implement the Ukrainian political party law, in particular with regard to the representation of parties in the regions, three times the size of the pledge to be paid to a special account of the Central Electoral Commission by political parties. But what's important to emphasize is that the mortgage only comes back if no less than 14 deputies are elected from this party, that is, if there's a chance to form their own political faction in the Supreme Council, which will implement the party's pre-election program. A change in the order in which election committees are formed will take into account not only the proposals made by local political parties but also local governments, public authorities and public organizations. This will ensure that elections are conducted transparently and that election boards are not formed only by political parties. It is also envisaged that more effective control by the State over the conduct of the elections will be exercised, not only by the courts and the Central Electoral Commission, but also by the Attorney General's Office and the Ministry of Justice within the clearly defined limits of the law. That's what I'm stressing. We are convinced that the adoption of this bill as a basic bill and voting it in the first reading, with further and final voting, will contribute to the real realization of the people's government by electing those who are leaders at the national and regional levels, which is exactly what civil democratic society is to be built with you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u64	Yes, questions to our colleague, distinguished national MPs, if there is, please sign in. Put it on the board. Yes, Gladys, the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, "Trouble Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u65	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, respected Bogdan Vladimirovic, thank you very much for the bill. I think it's a huge bill that will make up all sectors of the population and reflect our society, because when there was an election, people would ask for who, which parties would vote for. The parties are basically television parties. And what you're suggesting that leaders should be both regional and local and republican is exactly the kind of project that will cover. That is why I call on all the people's deputies, the ones who have gone through the Majority District, to support this bill. I think he'll get everybody. Thank you so much for the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u66	I thank you for that thought, and for that, let's put it this way, an opinion in the form of a question. I'm sure that this bill will satisfy not only the majority, but also the political parties, because we understand very well that, given the principles of promotion, given the increased role of the party in terms that candidates can only be financed at the expense of the party, that candidates in their activities can only use party principles and party advocacy, we and that in case the number of candidates from the party is less than established by law or by the Supreme Council Rules for the number of people who can create a faction. And that's exactly what's going to contribute to the real consolidation of our society in the direction of structuralization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u67	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u68	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. I mean, honestly, Bogdan Volodymyrovich, from all the things I've heard in all these years of being in the walls and listening to these designs, yours is the most attractive, if you don't cheat: are you a party list or a cheerleader? Because these are all the games: he that lifts up where he throws up, he that does not have it does not lift up. What I'm saying is, how are you going to get a summary of your choices, your vote on party lists, no lists?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u69	Well, I'd like to start by saying that I'm neither party list nor major. I, for the people of Ukraine, am the most important one, who has chosen me and the will that I must carry out here. That's the first one. That was the first question. The second question is how the sums are going to be drawn up. Under the proposed law, the party forms its electoral list, where no more than one candidate is nominated for each district. The candidate goes to the county and acquiescs the people, the electorate, by going out exclusively, stressing exclusively from the party program. If he's agitating without leaving the party program, that means he's violating the Elections Act with the proper consequences. This candidate is financed exclusively by a party from its electoral fund. The candidate has no right to use his personal money, no other money. And after candidates from different parties in the district. The election took place, according to the one who won the most votes, and he goes to the Supreme Council. Next. As a result, if the number of deputies from one party is less than 14, there is no turning back. It's very substantial money -- almost a million dollars. If more than 14 people have passed the party, it has the right to form a party faction and to return. These are the basic principles. Thank you. On the second reading, of course, all the comments can be more detailed and taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u70	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u71	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of "Regions of Ukraine", Zaporozska oblast. Dear colleague, please tell me that you do not think that there is a sufficient electoral system. And what are your personal claims to the Majority System, to the Majority Districts and to the Majority Deputies? That's the first question. Second. What do you think will change in the life of the country, in the life of each of our constituents, if we adopt this law 2.5 years before the election?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u72	Thank you for asking. Well, here's the first question, I get it, the main thing is whether you need to make laws today, change elections. That's the main thing. Well, as they say, I wasn't the initiator of a change in the electoral system, so obviously, we weren't the first ones to pass the Election Act. And I'm sure that the existing system is not bad. And anyway, when I spoke to my constituents, not one of them ever said at any meeting that we had to change the electoral system. First. But taking into account, they say, the needs of society, perhaps by stepping on the throat of their own song, as they say, on the throat of the electoral song and convincing them, based on what probably more than that in the Supreme Council for moving forward, in order to adopt laws based on strengthening democratization through the restructuring of society, by means of the way that party political forces have more influence in the state. As a result, we made our choice. Even though we're all together or there's no other choice of law, I don't think we'd give ours either. But we think that if we move forward, our law is progressive enough. In any case, we discussed it in our constituencies and did not spontaneously hand it over. So this law is agreed upon by every one of our deputies who signed it in their districts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u73	Basil Tsushko gives the word to John Boki. Please, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u74	Dear Bogdan Volodymyrovich, your bill is obviously majorist, only dressed in a dress of proportionality, but it's a dress. I'd like to ask two of these things. First. Why are we even against a purely proportional system? And why do we say that the Ukrainian people will not accept the way the Ukrainian people did 86 years ago? This time. And the second. Specifically, according to your bill. If an MP dies, what will be the election? It's going to be a major election. It's not going to be a proportional election.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u75	Thank you, Sir John Sidorovich, for that question. First. I don't mind. I didn't say I was against a proportional system, I was aging for my law. And that's why I just don't want to say that we're looking at these laws and turning us into a struggle, some opposition, most of us fighting. And today, in the Supreme Council, we have to consolidate and adopt that law, which will be 226 votes. If any law, including proportional law, votes to 226, I will be forced and obliged to do so. So I have never fought against the adoption of other laws, nor will I fight. If we ask today what the people want, then we have to, I'm not sure that the people want a proportional system or a major system, if we ask questions like that, we have to ask the people or maybe have a referendum where we get the answer, and then we'll understand what the people want. I would like to consider today's speeches, particularly my own, from a point of view, that we are proposing a law from a group of national MPs, and we believe that this law is absolutely democratic. If another decision is taken as a result of the High Council's discussion, we will definitely vote in favour. Regarding, if any of the national MPs were expelled, this is the answer to the second question, according to those provisions of the law in that district of the party, they would present their candidates. Only from parties. And that candidate who wins the election in this district, he has to enter the faction of the party that put him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Time's up. Sit down, Bogdan Vladimirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u77	Thank you very much for the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u78	The chairman of the Committee on State Building and Local Governmental Affairs, Anatoly Matvienko, has the floor for the report. Please, in five minutes, and the answers to the questions are the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u79	Dear colleagues! Let me give you the position of most of the committee and offer you its decision. First. Before declaring which bill the committee supports, I would like to express to you the position of the committee that we should: (a) adopt a new bill, a law on the election of Ukrainian national deputies and adopt it on a proportionate basis. Because we can see that what is happening in the Supreme Council today is triumphant over one another and practically governed by others and does not assume responsibility is abnormal. On the other hand, we realize that the adoption of the law today is essential if we are to introduce any new innovations, this law should come into force fully. And if anyone today says that it is not yet time until 2006, he is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who works the most for the inefficient work of all the committees and for the unorganized work in the elections of each one of us individually. Because we are. And we support that rule so that no one is afraid of early elections, that this law that we will adopt will enter into force only in the 2006 elections, and that is also the principle for us to agree. Regarding a proportional system. We support this slogan not because the President said there should be proportional elections, or more loyally not only because most parliaments have also stated it, but because we should finally have full responsibility, which will take responsibility in Parliament. And it's clear that only a proportional system can do that. Now, what's the proportional system? Whether it should be a real proportional law, or whether it should be a law that is practically major, which is just wrapped in a so - called proportional system or covered in slogans. I think all of this should bring us closer to the right decision. Moreover, we support what needs to be considered and improved in a bill that is the biggest voter in the room, not just a bill that I like only because I am a proportioner or a majorist. I also want to make a statement on the committee's position that we need people's deputies in the district, that this is not the key issue today. We need order in the state. We need a decent life in this state. We need a lot of pay and enough, and we need security, not a national MP in the district. Besides, we have a national MP in the district, and 95 percent of us today are in poverty and cold and hunger. Obviously, we need changes. There are local elections to do that. By the way, in order to move to a proportional system of local elections, the committee proposes to consider, first of all, a proportional system of election of Ukrainian national deputies, because we cannot then move on to a deeper system of proportional elections and the formation of representative authorities. I also want to say the most important thing. Friends! Remember, today we have a unique opportunity, really five minutes to make the right decision. Because the most frightening thing today is that it's an administrative resource, and the most appealing thing is that there is an administrative resource. But, brothers of the Bolsheviks, let me call you that, today, when you're in the majority, you'll be in opposition tomorrow, and you'll suffer just as much as the opposition is suffering today if we adopt any bill that allows us to use administrative resources. As a result of all these problems, the committee considers it necessary to stay on the electoral system today and to adopt the law in the first reading, which clearly reflects the objectivity of the electoral system. Because so many problems are procedure. And I really want to say thank you to Mr. Havrish and Ioff, and to Dashutin for the better procedure. And in the Klukkowski and Rudzkowski bill, that's better. And a particularly well-defined procedure in the Assadchev bill. But that's the problem with second reading. As a result, the committee took a decision of 17 in favour of the decision, 14 in favour of the Rudzikowski project, and three against it. And obviously, on other issues, the committee didn't vote on other projects, because there was no need. I propose on behalf of the committee to support the bill and move on, unlock the situation. And the rest is to realize that it will pull up a party, structure society, and strengthen democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u80	Questions to the head of the committee, please sign up for this. Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues, I'm asking the small ones not to hold academic meetings, I'm asking you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u81	Vitaly Shibko, Ukrainian Socialist Party Anatoly Sergiyovich, I'm here. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u82	Please, Vitaly Shibko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u83	Anatoly Sergiyovich, you analyzed, I understand, all the projects. And you realize that there are some fundamental differences. Please tell me if we can rely on the bills that were proposed and the Hubskis that were proposed by Gavrish in such a system that the administrative resource there would be downturned in the elections, but there would be a deputy in the district who would have this administrative resource. I'm telling you from my practice. I'm coming to the district, fixed for the Dnipropetrov region, and I'm going to go to the Paradise, and I'm saying that I want to meet the voters here. And they say to me, "Well, do we have a elected MP, and did you ask him if you could perform or not?" This is not going to be the way we're going to adopt those bills that he called the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u84	I think that Hubsky would say that this is a purely majority system, as I was able to get to know his bill. About the Gavrish project. In addition to writing to MPs in each district, which makes it possible to use a truly administrative resource, there is also a norm, such as the inequality of MPs. For example, five automatically enters. This tells us that we're going to have a category of national MPs in Parliament, who are automatically becoming deputies, regardless of how they were supported even by the offer of Joseph and Gabriel. The other one. So we have an unlimited virtually electoral fund and we don't have any prescribed standards as it's being used. This means that there may be a danger of better and worse candidates. Secondly, we write in the bulletin that John of this party is in this district. There is a danger that two or three deputies will be elected in one district, and there will be districts where there will be no deputies. So none of what is predicted and what is apologetic is decided by this bill. I say again, he's imperfect too. Obviously, it was in these circumstances that the committee decided to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u85	Bogdan Kostinuk, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u86	Please give the floor to my colleague on the National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine" Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u87	Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u88	Yuri Klukkowski, National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter, of course I'd like to ask some questions. Unfortunately, it's built that we don't have time to discuss and ask questions, but please tell me, first, how do you measure proportionality in the event that the first one in the district becomes a winner and all the other votes are lost? And the second. Do you think it would be wise for the election committee to introduce representatives, not from local government administrations, as proposed by a colleague of Hubsky, but directly from the President's Administration? It's about his bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u89	Thank you. I think I have expressed my point of view that the Hubsky bill is not a proportional law on the election of Ukrainian national MPs, but it is purely majority. And that's why we shouldn't wrap it in a proportional slogan. That's the way to view it. As a result, the answers to your questions are still automatically understandable.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u90	Andrew School instead of Billorus.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u91	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear reporter, first of all, I also wanted to ask the previous speakers a question, because their argument is no more than a verbal equilibrist, because none of them could explain why Ukraine does not fit a perfectly normal proportional electoral law. You don't have to look here completely. Explanations. But I'd like them to be named here, and there's always a warning that there's not going to be a deputy in the district or there's going to be. I'm an MP who's elected to Majority County, and my work in the district is very, very limited, because I can't do it. Not because I can do little for the county, not because I'm a majority MP or a proportional one -- because power is like that. So I wanted you to just explain this situation, could Ukraine eventually count on proportional elections for this power, or should we wait for it to change? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u92	Thank you. Judges. In general, anything is possible in theory, but judging from what is being done with the bills, it is very difficult to expect. But I believe that we will be guided, not from the streets of others, but from our Chamber of Deputies of the Supreme Council. As to whether voters can expect their deputies in the districts or in the regions, obviously so, and this can also be provided for in the law on proportional elections, on the status of the MP, by establishing or obliging a faction to clearly identify all regions and be responsible for the work with the regions. But, my friends, I want to ask all majors from this rostrum, too: do we have to answer what is the Ukrainian national deputy, who first has in the Supreme Council, or work in the district, solving the problems of sanitation, lighting, garbage, all the other problems? Or should it create conditions when the problems that have been so difficult for our electorate today did not exist by legally asserting this right and controlling the corresponding levels of power. Apparently, yes. If so, then we should not cover ourselves with concern for a particular electorate in a particular majority district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u93	Julius Yooffe, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the "Trouble Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u94	Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich, I'm very surprised that you're explaining our bill that belongs to Dashutin, Gavrish, Jooff. And it's very strange for me. Because when I sat with you, I explained this law to you, you agreed that there are only two parameters: the first place on the list, the queues are determined by the voters, and you have to show the parties or blocks who they have besides the leader behind whose back those people would never vote for. That's the difference. Because the list is defined by the party itself. But it's a turn of events, yes. Second, it is not a major law, because there is no mandatory mandate: just every party presents its brand in the territory so that they can see who it is. And the third. After that. I'd like you to explain why you explain that. And the third. You have a great understanding of what's on your head, what's on your head, what's on your feet. And you don't have to look, you don't have to stand on the front door of the party to miss someone, and the party is going to look for people who are going to be acceptable to the electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u95	Julius Yakovic, I was speaking from this rostrum not my own point of view, but I was speaking from this rostrum to most of the committee. Moreover, I want to say that it is not all that the committee has said if it objects to this bill. For example. You're saying that in five days, no later, you can change your bill to one candidate to another because it broke out. But tell me, if you're filming everyone in less than five days, and the administrative resources can do this today under your bill, then the elector has no right to vote for one party or another, because there's got to be a party on the ballot and a specific John. That's the majority system. And that's why we need to understand that we're not making things better by ourselves, we're only making it worse. And based on the possibility of administrative pressure and administration during the elections, the committee has decided that this bill is not in time today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u96	Thank you. Anatoly Sergiyovich, time is up. Dear colleagues, we've been looking at this for an hour. Are we going to discuss it or not? So no, well, let's vote then. There's a rule, if there's a rule, let's vote. We've been looking at this for an hour instead of 45 minutes. I asked you, you said yes. Dear colleagues, so I say, let's make it normal, let's have a discussion for 15 minutes. Is there no objection? I suggest you, your honor, either vote for us, or 15 minutes to consider other issues. Positions are clear. We're going to have to decide by vote. I think the time for agitation is over. 15 minutes enough? Thank you. That's enough. Please put your name on the board. Yuri Karmazin, prepare for Vladimir Puzakov. 15 minutes. And then we have a lot of other bills to consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u97	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine. Dear National MPs, after studying all the projects that have been submitted, I consider it possible to adopt only in the first reading of Bill 34 25, which was submitted by the People's MP Rudzkowski, Klukkowski, Oluyk, Ponomarenko. And not because he was represented by different factions, but because in modern Ukraine he was very viable. And the very reason he's capable of life is because he's stressed that he's having a hard time at school. To carry out their duties. Is it not difficult when candidates are taken to the polls through obedient courts? Isn't it hard to fake a vote? And what you have to do to keep this from being faked. Of course, this law, which is the draft law, should be governed in second reading seriously. I'm going to start with the simplest, it would seem, everyone in the West has come to this a long time ago. In article 67, which is called something called "The Voting Room," and then it's written in part five that the need for a number of ballot boxes is written that stationary large and portable small ballot boxes are sized and made out of material as defined by the Central Election Commission. Dear authors, is it difficult for you to make a ballot box out of such transparent material? They threw out one, two, and you can see it. That's what's going on in the West. Why are we always on the rake today? Why? To fake it? But this can be done with plastic simply, it costs a penny, it's very easy for everyone to make it clear, and for the viewers and so on. Now the second one. A key position on how to build a city — along the river or across the river? Much has been said today. I'm talking about building a city. I was elected twice in the majority system, and I went through it, but then there was a relative democracy, and then there was a relatively gangocracy sitting in prison, or at least there was a question about putting it in jail. You don't think anything's gonna change today? But our president is coming, and you're gonna be yelling, "Let's have a party system, I can get through a few of us." I mean, you'll get away with it. So the rules of the game need to be set right and right. Dear National Deputies! Our Party of Protectors asked questions in 1998, in 1999, about the definition of quotas for women, about the provision of part three of article 24 of the Constitution on equality of rights between men and women. In Argentina, these quotas are set out in the Constitution, Belgium, Herzegovina, the Quota Act, Sweden, Norway, South Africa, they are, too. There's almost 50-45 percent. Therefore, we need to be awakened to the social activity of all members of society, both men and women. So for 50 percent of us to write in the law, there should be women, 50 percent. We've already created the society that is, let's share the power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u98	Vladimir Puzakov. But Anatoly didn't have it on his quota, you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u99	Vladimir Puzakov faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. Although the year 31 March 2002 was far behind, electoral passions had not yet subsided. Every honest person has a long time to remember this dirty, cynical and selling electoral campaign. Today, we must take seriously the addition of the Law on the Election of People's Deputies. First of all, I also support the proposal of a proportional electoral system, and I suggest that we not forget the issues that must also be addressed by these laws. For example, the electoral law should respect the principle of the formation of electoral commissions among the most well-structured political parties, because in many regions the members of the electoral commission were the parties and blocs that had been established a few months before the elections, and many people in the commissions were not of their own volition. Practice shows that many polling stations need to be expanded. In many polling stations in cities and districts, not only in the Kirovograd region, people stood in line for several hours and, without waiting for the ballots, went away, then returned in the hope that they were still carrying out their constitutional duty. It is necessary to prohibit public officials from taking part in agitation and to prohibit the law and criminalize those who engage in multiple bus wars with the owners of resilient vouchers. Why did we reduce the voting time from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.? I don't think it justified itself. Let us remember the Soviet times when the elections began at 6 a.m. and ended at 22 p.m. Everyone was comfortable and there were no turns. And the last. There must be equal conditions, no matter how we hold elections in proportion to the majority, but the conditions for access to the media must be equal. It is not a secret that the central and district electoral commissions have hardly responded to the temporary and unequal conditions of access of the electoral process to the media. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u100	Jaroslav Suhi. The faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, I am immediately warning you that I am not speaking out of the faction of SDPU, and I am expressing my personal view as a deputy Majority elected twice in the same district in the Paris region, where there are extremely many non-political and life-threatening problems. So I don't care what the electoral system is going to be in 2006, or maybe someone's already itchy, twisted and tried it out in 2004. I would ask the national MPs not to distort the essence of political reform. Because we get interesting, if anyone's comfortable, here's where the president is quoted, and most of them, and Vladimir Illich Lenin, and Carl Marx, because that's convenient. The essence of political reform, remember, is to eliminate the apathy and irresponsibility of power in order to rid ourselves of the dissension of the people and the power, because this alienation, after this alienation, is followed by totalitarianism, violates the foundations of civil peace, breaks democracy, stability and peace in society. There is great doubt that, with two percent of our people's party influence, portocracy will be able to reform our political system, to ensure peace and peace in society. I didn't hear the argument here either in the vocation or in that argument, why do we have to give up 50 by 50 right now and move on to purely party closed lists. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you of the world experience. The closed party lists in three countries are Israel, Estonia and Albania. Ukraine must be fourth. Closed party lists. No preferences, no rights in the area. The duty of the Ukrainian national deputy, including, or primarily, to defend, defend, defend, protect, protect, protect, protect, and protect the rights of the people. Finally, it is the people who delegate their authority to carry out their duties. People, like his problems, are specific. I'm sorry, there's no Ukraine at all. Ukraine is made up of specific regions. People, there are specific problems, they're not specific. Why did none of the voters of the electoral system on the basis of closed party lists tell me, answered neither then nor now where, with whom were they consulted, which labour groups? Where the electorate said that they did not refuse to see a particular person in a particular district, they agreed to kiss someone’s flag or portraits. Honorable national MPs, lack of people in some parties in places, lack of personality instead of working with people, election on party lists. Party wishes. to sit here forever in the walls of Parliament. I get it. I understand it perfectly, I respect it, but I don't accept it, I'm a supporter of the majority system. Forty - fifty national deputies in four hundred and fifty districts The maximum I can do is leave the system 50 by 50 unchanged. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u102	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u103	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. The party's principal position. First, we support the concept of the law by a proportional system. We believe that the next election to the Supreme Council should follow the party list system. At the same time, we believe that only political parties should participate in the elections, not a block with very vague configurations, which instead of formulating their political position prefer to call themselves a block of one's name or another. If the block has a leader but has no political position or hides it behind the leader, is this really called party elections? The other one. We consider this law an integral part of political and constitutional reform. Let me remind you, honourable Members, that there is a principle of agreement between the leading political forces on the substance of the reform project. This 291-signature project is sent to the Constitutional Court. We are confident that the conclusion will be positive and that a change to the Constitution will be made in the spring for a decisive vote. But given the sad fact that the level of trust between the political forces in the Supreme Council today is, to put it mildly low, we are confident that this law should be put to the vote only by a package together with constitutional reform. Third. The purpose of political reform is to create a politically structured parliament that can assume responsibility not only for the current work of the government but also for the formulation and implementation of its policies. Obviously, this requires an increase in the role of parties. Why do Social Democrats advocate a proportional electoral law? First, it will stimulate the growth of political parties. It is not a secret that today the political forces are often speaking in a formula -- both ours and yours, avoiding to define their position in a structured parliament, which, if not possible, is at least much more complicated. The other one. We need Ukraine as a whole. Of course, it is impossible to achieve a situation where Lviv, Donetsk, Odessa, and others vote equally for any political power. But the deputies who come here must remember that they represent not only their city or region but, above all, the people of Ukraine. And parties that will be afraid of such outfits. It's no big deal to us because we're not a regional party. Now, let's talk about the projects that are being proposed. Project 3425 is purely proportional. That's his advantage, but that's his disadvantage. We are certainly under party law, but everything is needed. In this law, the unparty, as it were, has left only the right to come to the polling station and vote, everything else, behind the parties. At the same time, this project allows not only parties but also blocks. And so what we've seen here is a breakdown in the past, a deformation today. Mr. Gavrish's project is interesting, but we don't think it's a work in progress. Project 3425-3. He's easy. The proposed law is purely major, it lacks any measure of proportionality, unless it counts that candidates in all districts are represented by a party assembly. And so a certain set of candidates is considered a list. But this list has nothing to do with the real list, because individual deputies are selected for the project. The essence of the law in article 72 of risk 7 is: "The candidate for the district for which the majority of the votes are cast is elected." So this is the system that now has half the deputies, and it's proposed to pick everyone. The faction of SDPU(o) supports the concept of the law by a proportional system, and we think that the next election to the Supreme Council should follow the party list system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u104	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u105	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Today we are participating in a theatre action called bourgeois democracy. The point of this action is that there are only two parties in Ukraine: the bourgeois party, the antinational party, and the Communist Party of Ukraine. Today, the bourgeoisie is trying to make a look, create several parties under different names -- "Our Ukraine," "The only Ukraine," "The Beauty of Ukraine," "The Hard Ukraine." All of this is their Ukraine, not your Ukraine, miserable people! Around that, other toys happen, for example, about the number of women -- 20 percent to choose for the Supreme Council or 30 percent? Ladies and gentlemen, why don't we talk about young people under the age of 30, let's propose a percentage. And the wise. Our compatriots over the age of 60, why not give them a percentage? Why not give a percentage to the most mobile people between the ages of 30 and 60? This is how absurdness begins, and we can observe it today. There was a lot of discussion here about that, and who would represent the majority MP in the Ukrainian Parliament if there were no major districts? Dear ones, read the corresponding article on the status of Ukraine’s national deputy. And it says, "Those MPs who are chosen by party lists, by order of the factions, have the right to represent either in the area or in a separate district the interests of the faction, the interests of their political power." I'd like to test this practice. And I felt that this disgraceful bourgeois chamberlain would go to any violation of the Constitution and the law just to prevent the representatives of the people from going to the Communists, the other left to go out to the people and tell them their word. Therefore, the Communist faction believes that in the bill on the proportional system of elections, the bill is presented by the people's deputies Rudzkowski, Kludkowski, and others. We support this very bill. But in the stormy conditions of bourgeois democracy, using black pianist technologies at the last stage of the electoral campaign, anything can happen. You don't have to feel that with the adoption of this law, there's going to be a democracy in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u106	Dear colleagues, time is up. Question completed. We will decide on the day of the vote, taking into account the discussions and positions that have been declared today by the national MPs of the MPs and factions. It's being announced. Now, let's move on to short-circuited questions. The draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Departure from Ukraine and Entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian Citizens is under review. [[concerning the processing of exit documents]] The reporter is Mozik Alexander Fedorovich. Please. Deputy Foreign Minister. Prepare from the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u107	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, is being submitted to your consideration of the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Departure from Ukraine and Entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian Citizens. The need to ensure the constitutional right of citizens of Ukraine to freedom of movement was prompted by amendments to the above-mentioned law. First of all, it's about Ukrainian citizens who are under the age of 16 and who live abroad all the time. And secondly, Ukrainian citizens who are abroad in a long-term assignment in education, internship, treatment work under contract. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine analyzed the practice of other countries in documenting children’s procreative documents. As has been found in most countries of the world, passports have been issued to children since their birth. There is no travel document of a child in Ukraine in other countries. Therefore, owing to the lack of recognition by some countries of the child's travel document, as well as the existence of such documents by the owners of registration problems, the granting of a residence permit abroad, etc., we propose to amend the law, according to which Ukrainian citizens who have not reached the age of 16 and are constantly living abroad will be able to form passports from Ukrainian citizens abroad in foreign diplomatic institutions. On the other hand, there has also been an urgent problem of change and of the provisions of the law, which stipulate that passports from a Ukrainian citizen to go abroad can only be documented in foreign diplomatic institutions of Ukraine by citizens who are constantly living outside Ukraine. This is due to the fact that hundreds of thousands of our fellow countrymen have gone abroad since the adoption of this law for the purpose of employment, education, treatment, and so forth. Practice has shown that Ukrainian citizens cannot in most cases go to Ukraine to resolve passport issues, namely, to form passports instead of lost ones, or passports, which have resulted in the completion of free passports, and so on. Amendments to the Act on the order of departure from Ukraine and entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian citizens will create legal grounds for the formation of Ukrainian diplomatic services, Ukrainian citizens' passports for departure abroad of the above-mentioned category of Ukrainian citizens, will protect the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens who have not reached the age of 16 and will save the budget for the production of child travel documents. The Ukrainian Diplomatic Service Act applies the term "foreign diplomatic institutions of Ukraine." In this regard, we suggest making appropriate changes to the text of the law that is now being adopted. At the same time, taking into account the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the MCC considers it possible to remove from the bill a change on the non-commitment of government duties and the Consular Assembly for the issue of passports to persons who have not reached the age of 16. The above-mentioned benefits are already enshrined in article 4 of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Decree on State Customs, in accordance with article 4, paragraph 25, of the decree, persons who have not reached the age of 16 are exempt from the payment of government duties for issuing them a document to leave abroad. The implementation of the law does not require additional financial costs. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u108	Thank you. Please sit down. Oleg Grachev, first deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u109	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Mr. Grachev, First Vice-Chairman of the Committee. Dear colleagues! At its meeting in foreign affairs, the Committee reviewed the draft law and unanimously recommended it for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on first reading and adoption as a basis. The proposed bill is aimed at resolving the issue of issuing passports for Ukrainian citizens and going abroad to Ukraine's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and foreign diplomatic institutions, to Ukrainian minors who are long-term abroad. The legal settlement of the draft law is the question of the practical implementation of the issue of passports issued by a Ukrainian citizen for going abroad, just described by Alexander Fedorovich Motzik. The implementation of the law, I emphasize, will not require additional financial and other material costs. I would also like to inform you that both the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Science and Education, the Committee on Law Enforcement, and the Chief Scientific and Expert Administration, having considered the draft law, also recommend it for adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the first reading, taking into account the proposals and comments they have reached and will be made by the committee during the preparation of the draft law for the second reading. The committee is therefore asking for the support of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u110	Thank you, too, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, we need two pros, two against. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who signed up for the performance. Yuri Carmazin. I'd like to ask the honourable deputies to make a clear statement for or against this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u111	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I will certainly stand for, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the adoption of this law, but I am very sorry that only a few changes in the law. [[paragraph 3]] Part 3 of article 2 of the law on the order of departure from Ukraine and entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian citizens is amended. I am very sorry that we are going back to the law and a comprehensive government, and on behalf of the government, the Prime Minister of Ukraine is not reviewing this law. There are many things in this law that needed to be considered in a complex way. We take time in Parliament and show the narrowness of the thinking of the Ukrainian government. So I'd like Victor Fedorovich Janukovic, who's seriously claiming some ambition, to at least draw to the level of the one who reads all the bills. At least. Well, unfortunately, it's not there yet. Now for the negatives of this bill. There is a law in Ukraine on a system of taxation that says that government duties belong to public taxes and congregations. And that's why what's being proposed here today, and by issuing the Consular Assembly or the State Customs, all these records aren't working out very well. I would have expected all the documents to be issued free of charge, because the person paying the taxes has already paid. But today we cannot ask questions without amending the State Budget Act. Today, at the show that it is written here that the law takes effect from the day it is published, it will be a clear violation of both the budget code and the law of Ukraine on the State Budget and on the tax system. So I was surprised that today, on behalf of the committee, it was said that no expenses would be incurred. These negative costs will also be costed. That's why I'm voting. I will vote in favour of the first reading, but it will have to be written that the law takes effect not now, but with the acquisition of the next budget, if we include it now, if it is budgeted. This will require the conclusion of the Budget Committee. And it's the government's desire to make whole bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u112	Yuri Solomatin, please. I understand if you're in. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u113	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The bourgeois Supreme Council of Ukraine adopts another bourgeois law. [[B in m in s a l in]] . Thank you, here's a warm applause from the centrists and right-centerists, and all the Camarilia who abuses the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u114	Dear colleague, I ask you to keep your frame. I understand we're getting close by tonight or I'll turn off the microphone. If a bourgeois parliament, leave it and.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u115	A bill on the drafting of exit documents is under consideration. Tell the poor people, you will follow these documents not even in America, not even in your own brother Belarus, you will not go anywhere. You'll have no salary and no pension where you're sitting today. Wealthy people will go. That's why it's the law. It would be more accurate to determine. The law on the order of departure and entry into Ukraine of wealthy Ukrainian citizens And that would be absolutely true. And that's how this law should be defined. And I bring, when there is, a proposal when this law is going to go to the second reading to make that right there and it's done there. In general, relations between Ukrainian citizens and the bourgeois state are being organized. At this point, it's appropriate and it's appropriate. So our faction has considered this bill and believes that even in these inhuman conditions of our people's existence, we must support it, and we will vote for it. I thank everyone for clapping my performance here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, one minute, are you against this bill? No, that's two for it. He said he would support it. Are you against this bill? Against? Please. But I'm asking you, Your Honor, to argue within the limits of the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u117	I mean, the honourable colleagues, first of all, the previous speaker did not determine whether he was in favour. But it's not about that. It's about that. This bill is really a very good desire to improve, but there are plenty of holes in this bill. That's the first one. The other one. What is most important? There's an expensive part, so we're really losing money in the budget. And if this bill starts to work not even since 2004, but since 2005, why did we now come up with it? I realize that these are good intentions, but with good intentions, the sent way is known where. If we are to move to hell, we must always be guided only by good intentions. In fact, the bill is not quality enough. And to say from this rostrum to the people's deputies that no additional costs will be incurred by its implementation, it is false, because it will actually bear because, although it will be provided for, of course, the human right not to pay the duty, but we did not provide for the rights of socially unprotected groups of people who do not get due to the fact that this duty will not be paid, because it is in today's budget that these funds are set up. Because the bill came under review today, and tomorrow or next Thursday, the law on Ukraine’s budget should be considered. And if he's even going to be looking at it in a week, and he's still going to settle this situation, this bill with the budget is not going to work, we can't make it. So I would have an offer from the government to recall, prepare quality, evaluate this bill to the budget committee, and then we would have a clear picture. If you do this quickly or you add up to this conclusion of the budget committee, and there will be a guarantee that it is counted, that is, those losses included in the budget next year, I will only gladly support it by voting and call on all the national deputies to do so. Because right now you're perfectly aware of the situation around going abroad at all. I don't know who's rich or not rich, now a visa in Poland, a free visa costs 150 euros. So it's not about going out or coming, it's about freedom of movement, it's about living or not living, because, well, it's been done in this world that people across borders use the proximity of the border and other states. Well, we can't, the state can't provide them with a decent life, so they provide themselves with a border that is more or less worthy of existence. So I would suggest, and it would be absolutely logical and correct, to call off, to work with the committee and to offer, together with the committee, a quality product that we would support unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u118	Yes, Anatoly Frost, do you mind? No, it's not. Who else is against this bill of those who are registered? The miner's against it. Please, the microphone. Or to the rostrum, as you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm against this because these problems don't need to be solved. Of course, it is necessary to decide and not so much that these budgetary costs are not to be overlooked even in this budget, but simply the principle of how to deal with this issue is not entirely correct. We have already considered the law on diplomatic passport of a Ukrainian citizen. This law introduces another differentiation, it turns out that some of us have to get a passport after 16 years, and some of us can get a passport before that. So there's a variety of documents, there's an extra variety of documents: a child's travel document that's given to Ukraine, and there's a child's 16-year-old passport abroad. I don’t know how much this binds to our contracts, but this variety of documents is not considered normal. So I would suggest that this law be passed after we have improved our passport system, we will bring it to one denominator, including for all Ukrainian citizens, one passport, which will also be a foreign passport, except for diplomatic passports. And then the procedures provided for in this law will become logical and can be put into effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u120	Dear colleagues, the draft bill on amending the Ukrainian Act on the order of departure from Ukraine and entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian citizens has been completed. [[concerning the processing of exit documents]] The decision will be made on the day of the vote. If you don't mind, dear colleagues, we could continue our evening session for another 15 minutes and consider the draft of the Law on Amendments to Article 32 of the Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship. [[on illegal immigration]] This is important to us, taking into account the processes that are taking place in Europe, both in the world and in Ukraine. Is there no objection? Thank you very much. Reporter: First Deputy Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Kornienko Mikhailo Vasilovich. Prepare Hennadia Josephic Widow. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u121	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Ukraine's draft Law on Amendments to Article 32 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship is designed to regulate the detention of foreigners and stateless persons who are illegally staying in Ukraine at special temporary residences. In no EU country, the special police force is used for the prolonged stay of detained illegal migrants. To this end, only suitable places are provided for foreign legislation to support illegal migrants. By the way, in 2003, 14.2 thousand illegal migrants were identified by police authorities, of whom 4,000,300 were assigned to the police force for inspection. During the past year, nearly 23,000 illegal migrants were detained, including 7,000 in special forces. On the basis of a study of international experience at the initiative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Decree No. 1110 of 17 July 2003 approved a standard position on the temporary residence of foreigners and stateless persons. It is for legalizing the function of such items and amending article 32 of the above-mentioned Ukrainian law. The project proposes to set a deadline for the maintenance of aliens and stateless persons up to 6 months and to determine the reasons for their detention and placement in temporary residences. These are the reasons for the violation of the ban on entry into Ukraine. The second is that there is no reason to stay in Ukraine, and the third is that there is no reason to stay in Ukraine. With regard to the definition of a borderline period of up to six months of foreign detention, it is proposed by reference to practice, confirmation of a person who has invalid documents or who does not have them at all with the help of embassies of foreign countries, including those not present in the territory of Ukraine. This is the amount of time it takes to confirm a foreigner’s identity. The adoption of the bill will have a positive impact on the state of combating illegal migration and will contribute to the country's integration into the EU, as Ukrainian standards on the conditions for illegal migrants will also be observed. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u122	Thank you, too, Mikhail Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. The word for the report has the head of the Committee on Human Rights, the National Minorities, and the International Relations of Hennadi Udovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u123	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. You know that Ukraine has first turned into a transit state of illegal migration, and that's what we've talked about in the Supreme Council. And now the number of illegal migrants is increasing, about which Mikhail Vasilovich Korniyenko has just said that 14,000 have been detained with false documents. And we need to keep these people somewhere, and that's quite a lot if we're on the average of 10,000. And we have to have four of these receivers. This is the Zakarpatsk region, the Kyiv region, the Kharkiv region, and some other area, I don't remember, the Lviv region. We need four points of 300 to 350. That's how it's supposed to be. Because our famous border guards are holding back illegals or people with fake documents. And they are maintained either by the budget, the meager budget of the border guards, or by the meager budget of a district or district. So we need finally, and those people need to be kept in human conditions, not the way we keep them in SIZO, somewhere in the bracelet, two bracelets or three bracelets for food. They need at least 19 bracelets of possession of a single illegal or a fake person. And to do that, we need a pretty serious budget. We estimate that we need one typical project and that we need to build a single item of 15 million dollars. The cost of maintenance, as I said, is 19 dollars per person. But we have to do this because today the number of people entering Ukraine with fake documents is increasing. I've just received a woman from the Supreme Council. She's here, she says, "They won't admit I'm a citizen of Ukraine." They looked at her, she had everything wiped out, and even the experts couldn't find out." Therefore, we need to accept these changes to article 32, in favor of Ukraine, in favor of Ukraine’s national security. The committee I lead unanimously supported this bill and asks you to accept it both in the first reading and as the law of Ukraine. These are modern challenges that we need to respond to quickly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u124	Thank you, Gennady Josephovich. Dear colleagues! There's a need.? Yuri Anatolyovich, what are we going to do? Carmazine, please. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Very short, please. So 2 goes, 2 goes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u125	Very short, yes. Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! We don't have to wonder how much we're going to cost an illegal immigrant. Each immigrant costs $5,300-5,500. Yeah? Confirms the prime minister now. A thousand dollars is just shipping. It's just a send-off. That means that another 19 bracelets are going to last him six months, it's going to run another 2-3 thousand. Count what you're going to do. But I am in favour of adopting this law in both first and second readings. But there's one tiny "but." When I take, I sit down with my computer, and I count, I see that 23,000 held up by 5,000 dollars, and I get the millions that we're actually helping the whole of Europe, not the poor Russian Federation, which is why most of them come to us. But I ask myself, what happens when we've held on for six months and this term isn't enough to prepare all the documents for the hatching? Should we not foresee the order and continuation of this term? What are we going to do then? That's the next question. So far, I think we can make a decision so that we don't get turned into a European protégé and take it both in the first and second readings. And it's clear to Europe that everyone there will be human rights. Another question is how will the typical position on the temporary residence of foreigners and stateless persons who are illegally present in Ukraine in the execution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'm not sure, for example, and I'm going to the committee, and that's what's affecting people's rights and freedoms. Because non-citizens are also citizens who are subject to the Constitution of Ukraine, they have no right to choose and choose, but they have the right to have a human attitude towards themselves. Because that's exactly how the Ukrainians will be treated, and that's how the Ukrainians are being held, and they're being held in Poland and Portugal and Spain and Italy, and you know that. That's why I'm here so that we don't have to redo anything in the Cabinet of Ministers so that it doesn't violate people's rights and freedoms. And in general, I'm the host. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u126	It's for admission. Mikola Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u127	Honorable National MPs. Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. We have little left to discuss. But I will read you an explanatory note signed by the Minister of Internal Affairs. The draft Act contains provisions on the legislative definition of the legal basis for the placement and detention of foreigners and stateless persons who are illegally staying and so on. The adoption of this law will enable the Ministry of Internal Affairs to make out of foreigners who have fled from political persecution, who have a desire, like every human being, to improve their lives and move to Europe, to make criminals and to put in prison, tens of thousands of people to make criminals and to put in jail and to keep them for six months. Because the law that exists does not allow the Ministry of Internal Affairs to keep more than 24 hours in custody and obliges or a person who is in Ukraine illegally to determine and leave Ukraine for 30 days. I'm talking to you. I understand the Ministry of Internal Affairs, more faithfully I don't understand them when they see criminals in every citizen in Ukraine without a visa. Thousands of Ukrainians are in such a position in Europe, but they are not made criminals; they are not jailed for it. Italy receives tens of thousands of foreigners to its territory and has not hatched any. We're moving to Europe, we shouldn't see a criminal in everyone who comes to our territory. I believe that the adoption of such a law will also put Ukraine in Europe and make it a semi-fascist state. As legislators, we must be humane with regard to our citizens and those who come to our territory, not in search of something to take away from us, but in view of the fact that life in their territories is unbearable. We don't know what else our President will create, maybe life in Ukraine will be unbearable, and some Ukrainians will have to leave Ukraine if they are to be persecuted. Thank you for your attention. This law cannot be upheld in any way. This is how we turn Ukraine into a police state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u128	Yes, Andrew School. One for, one against us already.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u129	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. I would like to point out first of all that the need for the adoption of this law by the Ministry of Internal Affairs is that very many foreigners are present in Ukraine, so many of them have to be maintained. By the way, I'm going to tell you the fact that local budgets are primarily affected by this. Instead of suffering directly, they suffer because they are kept by foreigners in their homes, at first in so - called prepared places. But in fact, the barracks, which were devoted to those caught on the border by the soldiers themselves, are getting worse, as it were, the conditions of the barracks. But there's another problem, and this bill doesn't solve it. But another problem is to continue for six months. You know, and it's cost-effective for Ukraine to keep for six months? Let's do it for a year and a half, for two. So here, when it comes to the need to prepare documents, it should be no more than a month. If the service is unable to prepare documents within a month, then these services must be released, and the costs that will go away from the release of these services will be given to the maintenance of foreigners for six months. Well, that's absurd. We want to improve the economic situation here by making it worse. You can't do that. Six months, well, let's face it, it's a long term, it needs to be reduced to a minimum. And here, when you talk about support even in the first reading, it's here. The law consists of two phrases -- go on for up to six months and prepare the points of special restraint -- and that's it. As for the items, here you can discuss and skip on the first reading, the situation here really is complex. And the previous speaker was partly right, saying that we're making it worse for foreigners that we're going to be here with those or other document flaws to hold for six months. So this is where we need to stimulate the activities of law enforcement agencies. I'd suggest a month's notice, but the quality of detention should improve, so we don't have to compare them to criminals right away. For displaced persons, without citizenship, and so forth. It will be determined that this person is a criminal, that he has forged documents, misled everything, then spread to him that the Criminal Code and he will go to the right place and be held there as the rest of the prisoners of Ukraine are kept. Or detained. But here's the main argument for me, it's a reduction in the pressure on Ukraine. And of course, this bill, as always, does not solve the general problem. Because this problem is generally solved at the border of Ukraine-Russia, Ukraine-Belarusia. Close this border completely -- everything -- and the aliens are practically not going to go here, that is, these refugees. So I will vote only if I have a guarantee. I want a ministry representative here to assure me that the maintenance term can't be more than a month, well, a month and a half, well, by two, that's the maximum. Come on, how many follow-up actions are in progress? 2 months. Then we need a new sanction. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u130	We have two against it, one against it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u131	Dear colleagues who remain in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear voters. I will immediately say that the Communist faction strongly supports this bill, and I will explain why. Look. For the maintenance of foreigners and stateless persons, it is proposed to spend 19 dollars a day. 19 bucks for 30 days is 600 dollars is higher than the average wage and a few times more than the pension. So I urge all our fellow citizens to immediately declare themselves stateless, to hand over their passports to our first Deputy Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Kornyenka Mikhail Vasilovich, and to voluntarily go to these camps for an unlimited period of time and stay there until our independent Ukrainian State is able to pay pensions and salaries at the level of this maintenance. Very good law. Let's take him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u132	Dear colleagues, everyone has spoken. Gennady Josephovich will speak on the questions here and on the lines. Well, it's over. We've completed our consideration of the question, two for, two against.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u133	Dear colleagues, I would like to explain to my colleague Rudzkowski. It's a completely different law. We have a law on refugees adopted by Ukraine, held by Ukraine and requested political asylum. And now on the way out, the law on granting asylum in Ukraine. That's absolutely not what you're talking about. This is about people who are in Ukraine and who are banned from being in Ukraine once and for all. Which is located in Ukraine with fake documents or which are undocumented. These are the things that we're talking about. And they need to be kept in human conditions, more or less kept in human conditions, so as not to allow what happened in Zacarpatta. The rebellion, the rebellion of the people, was these illegals who were detained and held there. And the second. Six months. A person’s personality needs to be established. A correspondence with foreign embassies is all done to ensure that human rights are not violated. So these two critical remarks have nothing to do with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m1.u134	Dear colleagues! Question completed. I am referring to the draft law amending article 32 of the Ukrainian law on the legal status of foreigners and stateless persons with regard to illegal immigration. The decision will be made on the day of the vote, taking into account the discussion that has just taken place. Evening meeting. Well, that was the committee head's closing statement. There were no charges. You don't need a replica. Let's finish on a good note, the more the holiday is today, the more I remind you. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we will work according to the agreed schedule of meetings. Thank you. Good-bye.
