ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. Prepare to register. Please turn on the "Race" system. People's deputies are registering. [[16:04:09]] Registered -412 There were 412 national deputies registered in the hall. The evening session shall be declared open. We're continuing our consideration of the bill. Please, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u2	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. I would still like to find out one question. Who gives us instructions that tomorrow at 11:50 a.m. schools will teach the so-called genocide? If this is about genocide, which has now expanded over 12 years of independence of Ukraine, then we need to provide appropriate methodological materials so that our teachers know that in 12 years of independence Ukraine's population has been reduced by 4 million. What we have today is the fact that there is nothing to feed children, nothing to pay for their training, today is an epidemic of tuberculosis in the state. That because we have 12 years of independence, young Ukrainians take first place in Europe for AIDS, that we today have 40 percent of the unemployed, that we have the price of bread, and the family has no power to feed, and the price of medicine is rising, if this is genocide, then, you know, the teachers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u3	Thank you. It is announced for consideration of the draft law on the ratification of the cooperation agreement on the implementation of the “Friendship” and “Adria” oil pipeline integration project - Reporter to the First Deputy Minister. No, no, we didn't vote on the transfer, we didn't make the decision, we'll take it up. So we didn't vote, one minute, I can say the word, then you can say the procedure. Dear colleagues! Before the break, I'll remind you, we voted to postpone the consideration of the draft law on the ratification of the cooperation agreement with the implementation of the "Friendship" and "Adria" oil integration project. But only 191 national deputies voted for it. So we can't move it. And that's how we're going to look at it. Who from the government will report it? Calm down. Who will report from the government - Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich, please report. While Boyko's on his way, please, Lechchenka. Then the black guy from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u4	Vladimir Leschchenko. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Chernigovishte. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I took another look at the transcript of our morning session. And so, when we were looking at Bill 2098-1 on the delimitation of state and municipal property, no one, as co-reporter, or Orzhachovsky from the committee, was in the draft decree about the veto overcoming. We've proposed that we all confirm a bill that was passed by 407 votes on July 9th in the same paper. I don't know where you came from to beat the veto and put you to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u5	I ask you to approach Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, he will explain to you that I was absolutely right. Please, Vladimir Cherniak of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. We are once again convinced that we do not have a proper ratification procedure. We keep bumping into it, and we keep walking into the same rakes, and we keep working the wrong way. On that point. To put it mildly, it is surprising that this treaty, which may be contrary to the oil pipeline of Odessa-Broda, which is contrary to the national interests of Ukraine, since it can already be judged by this fact, has been signed. Who signed this agreement? We don't know. Why did you sign it? We don't know. We don't know why the profile committee took a positive view of this issue and wanted us to vote in favour. It's totally insane. Let's work on the ratification process once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u7	Dear colleagues. We agreed with you, and I would like to point out that if the ratification document doesn't raise any objections, there are no questions, we put it to a vote. In this case, the problem was of vital interest, and we're looking at it. There's a reporter. Please, how many minutes do you need to report?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u8	Three minutes,
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u9	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u10	Honourable Presidency, distinguished people's deputies. On 4 June 2003, it was adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u11	One minute, I'll read for Yuri Carmazin the Rules: "If the speaker does not speak the national language, he has the right to speak another language. His intention to speak in another language is to report to the chairman in advance in the statement if he wishes to have his speech translated into Ukrainian." Please come in. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u12	On 16 December 2002, an agreement was signed between the Government of the Republic of Belarus, the Russian Federation, Slovakia, Ukraine, Hungary, Croatia. This process has been prepared for five years and is the essence of it. The agreement has been drafted for five years, the essence of which is that Ukraine has been given an additional opportunity to transit 5 million tonnes in the first phase after the reconstruction of the 10 million tonnes pipeline and the third phase of 15 million tonnes. The existing agreement was therefore signed between countries because it affected the interests of 6 countries and therefore required the signing of an intergovernmental agreement rather than a contract of economic operators. Additional revenue from the signing of the agreement and the start of work of some $30 million of foreign exchange income to the country. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u13	Yes, the report is complete. Any questions, please, are there any respectable colleagues? Sign up. Five minutes to ask. Please sign up. On the board of names, please, the national MPs. Bogdan Kostinuk, faction. Our Ukraine block.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u14	The People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinjuk. Dear reporter! Please tell me you've been to a meeting of the European Integration Committee. What does this committee have to say about this ratification? Do you think the committee should consider whether this is a question of European integration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u15	As this statement has been signed by the active members of the European Union and is fully in line with the Energy Charter, which has been acceded to and signed by all members of the Agreement, I can therefore assure you that it is fully in line with the spirit and aspirations of the European Union and is fully in line with Ukraine's integration into the European Community.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u16	Oleg Salmin, Democratic Initiatives MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to hear me now about this project and not politicize it just on the one hand and connect it with Odessa Broda. In this situation, Friendship Adria was also initiated by Russia when the construction of Odessa Broda was not completed. Today, the project is interesting for Ukraine, including from the position of Odessa-Broda, because of the Caspian oil that can travel through the Odessa-Broda Canal. If a terminal is built in Croatia and a reverse is made to the port of Omyschel, 5 million tons of oil will fall in the first phase. The next step may be 10 tons of oil and the next step may be 16. This is an interesting project for Ukraine. And I would like to consider this project not as a pro-Russian project, but as a project related to Ukraine's interests and to call it "Friend Ukraine-Adria". This is beneficial enough and interesting for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u18	Yes, Baburin is passing his word to Simonenko, please. Karnauh will ask questions next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u19	Yuri Anatolyevich, Simonenko, Communist faction. Please tell me, as a specialist, is the debate or confirmation of our opposition to our faction, the Communist Party, that the Caspian oil is supposed to be in the Odessa Ship pipeline? We know that Caspian oil has been sold to Americans for years. She'll never be in that pipeline. And this is evidence that the pipeline has already rotted for a year. The Government of Ukraine does not have the resources to fill it with crude oil and so on and so forth. We need to solve the issue of reverse. This is also economically beneficial for Ukraine, as are beneficial alliances. Tell me, please, Caspian oil when, what year will it be in this pipeline?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u20	Let's do it in order. So the discussion is indeed, of course, legitimate, because there are divergent views. And all those who participate in the debate are, of course, guided by national interests. The second question is that if you really look at the balance of Caspian oil, I can tell you with confidence that we will not fill this pipe with Caspian oil anytime soon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u21	Karnauh to Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u22	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, please tell me if the status of the pipeline changes if we ratify this agreement? Whether it remains state-owned or whether it will be implemented by Ukraine, I mean NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" and so on. Isn't management changing? Is there any influence on the Ukrainian part on the other side? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u23	Nikolai Nikolaevich, the status has not changed, the pipeline remains Ukrainian. We bless five million tons of oil or 30 million dollars per country. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u24	Basil Nadrag, People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u25	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich. First. I would like to apologize to you for my colleagues who, in my view, have allowed me to simply top the line of duty if we are to speak of ethical conduct. And the second is to say that we are deeply convinced that today we must support this document and, accordingly, on behalf of the People's Choice, to say, "We are with you." Good night.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u26	Leukko Lukyanenko, block of Julia Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u27	Ukrainian Republican Party, Yulia Timoshenko block, Lukyanenko Please pass the word to Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u28	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u29	Thank you, Grigorovich. Dear reporter, you know, the question of this situation with Adria is not so much. And the discussion with the oil transport institute shows that the obligation to transport oil, which Ukraine will take over under this agreement on the integration of friendship with Adria, under the present circumstances will make it difficult if it does not make it impossible to advance the Odessa Ship. So the volume of oil that's going to go through this pipe is going to push the Caspian oil out even in the project if it wants to go here. That's the first one. And the second is a short question. Ukrainian language, are you out of desire, or are you out of intellectual capacity? I think I'd still like to hear the answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u30	I didn't hear the second question. If it's very principled, I can answer in Ukrainian, it's a technical term, it doesn't cause any misunderstandings, it may be misinterpreted by you. But if you really need it, Mr. School, well.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u31	Yes, please sit down, Yuri Anatoliovich, the time is up. The committee is a member of the committee. Yuri Anatolyevich, please sit down. Yuri Anatolyevich, time's up. A report from the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. Oleg Salmin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, I would like to add that this project is of sufficient interest to Ukraine's position not only because the budget will be filled by transporting oil to Ukraine, but because we have an alternative source of oil of five million tons of oil in the first phase to Croatia. If ratified, Croatia will receive $60 million for this purpose. For the construction of the terminal and the production of a reverse to the port of Omishal. If that does not happen, then no “Friendship” project, “Adria” can be spoken of, nor can our country, Ukraine, Russia or other participants. If this is the case, then Ukraine has an alternative source of oil to Europe. And I would like you to seriously focus on that in today's vote. I would also like to point out that in the statement made by the Ambassador of America, there are some shortcomings in the fact that Enaf is not interested in the project. I'm telling you with confidence that Enaf is interested in this project, "Friend", "Adria," and they're looking for money, and they're looking for a loan to build the necessary terminal and convert it to the port of Omishal. That's why I think we can say today that this project can be called "Friendship." Ukraine - Adria." And this is beneficial enough for Ukraine. And I ask you to support today's vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u33	One minute, there's a question. Please sign up for the question. On board, please, the names of the national MPs. Yuri Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Lucenko Mikoli to Rudzkowski, please give the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u34	Dear reporter, the point is that we're loading the fully oil pipeline of "Friendship." And we have a question. We don't have a full Odessa Brody. Can Odessa-Broda be filled and use this transit route from Odessa to the Ships with supplies of friendship so that the pipeline doesn't stand? It's this branch, if we ratify this treaty, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u35	Thank you for asking. That is exactly what I said when Caspian oil was obtained in Odessa through the Ukrainian Ships, it was possible to transit five million tons of oil into the port of Omishal Croatia. This project is therefore of all interest to Ukraine, regardless of how Odessa-Broda will work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u36	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u37	Thank you. Dear reporter, we've discussed some of this. But anyway, there are realities, there's one pipe that's going to be used -- "Friends-Adria," which is filled first with some announcements, others. These ads won't allow us to use Odessa-Broda, a normal, non-reversible mode from Odessa to Brodov, then to Plocko, if it's built up, and it can't be built up, because as long as the pipeline is lost, these volumes will not allow us to load Odessa-Broda with Caspian oil. And there's no other way. There was a discussion with the oil transport institute. It has been shown that the commitment on the scales Ukraine will take will not allow it to take part in the transportation of Caspian oil. Please provide a valid explanation for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u38	I'll try to answer you. The fact is that in any transport system and oil, among other things, there is a notion of a temporary regime. Any company in this situation has the opportunity to distribute a temporary mode of filling the “Friends” pipe in any direction. As in Russian for 5 million, so also by Ukraine Odessa-Broda. This is therefore the current mode of operation of the company “Ukrattransneft”, which is to conclude a contract with Transneft of Russia, but under favourable conditions for Ukraine without transferring any monopoly rights to a piece, to a section of the pipeline system “Friendship”. In this situation, I see that more political issues are present here than economic ones. Therefore, I think that this system should be viewed more economically, which will be beneficial for Ukraine. Politically, however, there is already a need to vary between countries as well as America and Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u39	George Manchulenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u40	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency of the Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear reporter, first question. Do you understand the source and destination? Explain, please. And the second question. Why is Yuri Boyko lobbying the reverse oil pipeline of Odessa Broda so insistently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u41	The first question is the source. So the source is oil. There is no other source for this system. The direction of oil, I answer, I perfectly answer you that there is oil, there are several directions that can be used in the “Friends-Adria”. The first is the Russian direction initiated by the bill. But at the time, there was no end to the construction of the Odessa-Broda, and that was the only direction that was being considered. Today, when an alternative branch of Odessa-Broda is obtained, Ukraine receives, if there is another Caspian oil in Odessa, the possibility of transport of Caspian oil to Europe through Omyschel port, Croatia. On the second question, I think he's inappropriate because he's not with me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u42	Anatoly Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u43	Dear reporter, please answer the question: Who can guarantee that Ukraine will not hand over oil pipelines to Russia for everlasting use?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u44	It is a matter of ratifying a treaty, in which there is no indication that Ukraine is transferring a piece of “Friendship” to Russia. Not a word. Therefore, we are only talking about ratifying a treaty that will allow two things to be done. First. The Croatian side will take EUR 60 million to build a terminal without which the project will not be implemented and which also provides an opportunity for Ukraine to supply oil alternatively. Second. This provides an opportunity for this section to make money for the country's budget today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u45	Sit down, time's up. Do you have motive? Please, Simonenko with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u46	Dear colleagues! When a faction of Communists discussed this issue to determine our position, we first came out of the next. How Ukraine will benefit from this decision. We know that virtually no drop of Ukrainian oil will be found in this tube. It's the first thing we know what this is about. And never, and now she's gone. We're using this pipe to get Ukraine's oil transport to increase its volume. I got more money for the budget. And if again an oligarchic self-interest is transferred to this territory or to the political one to destroy Ukraine's energy independence again, it's already, let's say, the right of this political force. We believe that if Ukraine benefits from this, it is necessary to vote and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u47	Vladimir Cherniak with motive. And now we're going to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u48	Dear colleagues! The question is either Odessa-Boda's pipeline, or the "Friendship" and "Adria" oil pipelines. It's an alternative. If we ratify this deal today, we'll lose the Odessa-Boda oil pipeline.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u49	Dear colleagues! You've discussed this. I am voting for the approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Cooperation Agreement on the Implementation of the Friendship and Adria Oil Integration Project at number 01111. Please vote. [[16:28:41]] For 201 It's all over, haven't you voted what are you? For 201, no decision is taken. Let's go to rereading. A draft Act amending the Law on Metrology and Metrology is being introduced. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Vitaly Ivanovich Majko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u50	Vitaly Mike, enterprise faction. Party of entrepreneurs and industrialists of "Trudova Ukraine". Deputies! Dear Chairman! This law was considered in the first reading. There was only one law. Noting that there are many changes. So the text had to be changed, and all the comments were taken into account. And the committee decided to accept it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u51	Dear colleagues! Is there no objection? I'm voting on the committee's proposal, about. Please turn on John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u52	Dear National Deputies! John the Rabbit. Ukrainian People’s Party This bill has some serious warnings on my part. First, its scope is suggested to extend to all citizens. But it's not written when these citizens have it or how it's going to work. So this could be another one over the citizens. The other one. In the 20th article, it is suggested that the State Metrology Control and Supervision of State Land and Real Estate Registers be introduced. This means that once again, citizens, entrepreneurs who will form the earth, will receive another controller for their activities, who will have to feed all bribes. And there's a third observation. This is referred to in article 32. It suggests extending the rights of government inspectors, such as granting them powers and opening up ready packages of goods. But the damage caused by the opening of packages is offered to the cost of the owners of the property. In doing so, the selection process will continue to establish the central authority of executive authority in the area of metrology. Again, we're going to have an unchosen system using these mechanisms to suppress entrepreneurial structures. That's why I'm proposing. This bill is adopted in the first reading, but it is necessary to clarify these three points that I have discussed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u53	Dear colleagues! I'm voting on the adoption of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Metrology and Metrology Act 1064-d. Please vote. [[16:32:13]] For three hundred Decision taken. A draft Law on the appointment of heads of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine and on the termination of their powers is being discussed. Tomenko Mikola is head of the committee. Committee number 1159.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, today we have adopted two bills, one regulation and a bill on television and radio talk, where most have agreed that Parliament should be involved in the process of influencing information policy and in particular in the procedure for defining the policy of the state broadcaster, which is called the National Television Company and the National Radio Company. This law, which we did not have in our first reading, we analyzed it, took into account the amendments made by Karmazin, Xinchenk, and other national deputies, and today we suggest that we strengthen what was adopted in the first reading of the Television and Broadcasting Act. Because there is a strange situation at all. The president supports increasing the role of parliament in the country, with almost 300 deputies supported. Everyone backs up, and we can't vote that the president of the National Television is presenting us with a programme of activities for the year. We confirm it and then listen to how it is done. Therefore, the committee's request, to uphold the law in the first reading, is about first reading, so that both the President and the Parliament will equally influence the procedure of the National Broadcasting Company of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law on the appointment of heads of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine and on the termination of their powers. Please vote. [[16:34:25]] For 270. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we were about to consider the draft Act on Supplements to Article 5, paragraph 5.9 of the Ukrainian Law on Taxation of Enterprise Income (as regards the calculation of the balance value of energy-generating enterprises. But the Committee on Finance and Banking requests that this issue be removed from consideration, that the draft law on amending certain Ukrainian laws on taxation in relation to the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2003 be adopted. Is there no objection? I'm telling you a committee proposal. Please, the microphone. Otherwise we'll vote then, come on. Dear colleagues, how can we possibly be of this kind? Do you have any objections? Okay, thanks. So let's move on to short-term issues, that is, short-term consideration and decision-making. A draft law amending article 4 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Štitriy Alexi Ivanovich, the first deputy. Please, very briefly. We're gonna need two for, two against. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u56	I'm literally one minute. Honourable National Deputies, this bill is being implemented in connection with the Fourth Act of the Cabinet of Ministers on State Taxation, Payments, Congregations, and Insolvency. At the same time, Ukraine's Act of 2181 of 21.12.2000 "On the order of discharge of taxpayers' obligations to the budget and to State trust funds" stipulates that the collection of debts for executive notaries is not permitted. With a view to eliminating such differences, it is proposed to amend and foresee exemption from the State's duty to refer the financial and tax authorities to the courts, paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of the first paragraph of paragraph 1 of the State notary offices to exclude the executive inscriptions. In addition, add the article to paragraph 45: "Free the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for a subpoena to a court or a farm court, as well as for the filing of an appeal or a cassational complaint." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u57	Yes, have a seat, please. Brainy Oleg Mikolaiovich, head of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets Yes, from the committee to prepare a co-reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u58	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Law amending article four of the Cabinet of Ministers’ Decree on State Customs is proposed. This project was designed to carry out the tasks of implementing the main trends in the development of the stock market for the period 2001-2005. The bill provides for the exemption from the civil service of the State Commission from securities and the stock market for claims that it applies to the court for the protection of investor rights in the securities market. The project does not provide for financial expenses, since the commission is the central executive body, and the payment of government duties on its subpoenas to the court is made at the expense of the State budget. The discharge of the commission from public duty will enable the Commission to take comprehensive measures to protect investors’ rights. Dear National Deputies, as the Committee on Finance and Banking does not support this project, you would still be asked to facilitate its consideration and acceptance in the first reading. Please note that the draft law does not only address the issue of allowing the commission to implement the legislative powers provided for, but, above all, it will be aimed at the prompt and effective protection of the rights of investors, especially natural persons and the State, as a shareholder by turning the State Commission from securities to court in cases of violations of the law in the securities market. Thank you for your attention, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u59	Yes, have a seat, please. The committee's chairman is Burjak Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u60	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! These bills are essentially related. They propose that the authorities of the State be released from the payment of government fees when they are brought to justice. In Project 1145, these are tax authorities and in the case of court decisions in appeal or cassation, and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for an appeal to a court or a farm court, and in the case of an appeal or a cassation complaint. Project 1154-1 proposes to release the State Commission from the securities and stock market for the lawsuits it applies to the court for the protection of investor rights in the securities market. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reject the two projects mentioned above. First of all, according to article 27 of the Code of Budgets, the laws of Ukraine, which affect the formation of the income and expenditure portion of the budgets, should be officially published by 15 August of the year ahead of schedule. These bills also provide tax benefits to state institutions of executive power. I want to remind you that the following year there are major changes in the tax legislation of Ukraine. Therefore, it is necessary to be very careful about the setting up of benefits, especially for legal persons. According to the Financial and Banking Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Bills 1141 and 1145-1 offer to provide adequate funding for the public authorities’ expenditure on public duties in court cases, a general approach should be established for the public authorities to charge, in particular, for certain mandatory congregations. It should not be in the form of aid, but rather in the appropriate grants from the State budget to compensate certain government authorities for the costs incurred during their activities. That's why we're proposing to reject both of these bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u61	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Discussion. Yuri Carmazin, it's written here. Andrew School will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u62	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Honorable National MPs. What is proposed? The government is proposing such serious laws as they were shouting on television yesterday and today they are forcing the speaker to make this sound, the Head of the Supreme Council, that they are prevented by the absence of these laws. What's bothering you, Your Honor? I want you to listen to me. Over the past year, the number of subpoenas that the tax committee has reviewed has increased by 70 percent. What? What is the result? They're all rejected. With these calls today, you have completely blocked off the power of an independent court. The Supreme Court has 14,000 cases today awaiting a cassation review. 14,000 cases for 80 judges. You understand!? This is impossible to consider. Out of these, 10,000 are just civil affairs. And today you don't want to put into question what's going on in there with the tax authorities and everyone else's stupidity. And you drag a person or a legal person into court in every empty space. Therefore, dear friends, we must forget at all what the decrees of the 1993 Cabinet of Ministers are to the government of Kuchma. They're unconstitutional today. You know that. Because the Constitution was adopted in 1996. But you don't want to process the document completely and work on it. It's a good idea for you to look for some sort of a splinter. Such a splinter, we are a Parliament, we have no right to give you, Your Honor. And the release of the state commission, the release of the government from the payment of government duties at court appeals today, can't be accepted. I'm very pleased with the professional evaluation that Sergey Burjak now gave, particularly the Committee on Finance and Banking on two of these projects. Clearly, Sergey Burjak said that they were a total violation of existing legislation, including a violation of the constitutional principle of equality of subjects before the law, and today you are asking the question that someone should be better. Let us forget that, Your Honor, and we will make decisions in behalf of the people of Ukraine. And I'd like to point out that the Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council is somehow in its conclusion of 11.06. In 2002, recommending the adoption of the project as a basis, it did not look back, and it did not want it to give any further conclusions. What's more, you're suggesting that it will take effect on January 1, 2003, and even now it's not here in the speeches, and it can't get any feedback from January 1, 2003. But that's what we need to talk about. But you had time for a speech, you honourable officials, you know, I'm not sitting here to consider your sins.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u64	You have medical devices, and I don't have one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u65	Thank you, Andrew School, you're against it. Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u66	The school of Andrew. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I would like to state right now that I am against such bills being proposed at all by the Supreme Council because here, if I am not mistaken, the people's assembled representatives are the best part of this people. But the people represent. Here, the executive suggests that we relieve ourselves of the payment of the duty in court proceedings. So there's a whole inequality of sides anyway. Let's compare, what is a citizen? What, though, is tax inspection? What is it even if it's an entrepreneur? And what the Cabinet of Ministers is, you can imagine, from the beginning, it's an unequal relationship. So they want to take the full risk here because what a payment of duty is, it's when a tax inspection illegally, or unjustifiably attracts a citizen's judicial responsibility, and it turns out that it attracted him to an unwarranted and citizen justified, then a tax inspection has to pay for all the costs, including, and holding back. So why now, in this situation, do we even have to discuss the issue in order to take away such a serious, wealthy, not poor organization, as a tax inspection of this honorable right, to pay the public budget. Let's go to any district center and see what tax administration buildings are like. Lviv, Poltava, Kiev, anywhere. You choose the best house, the highest, the most modern, the most modern, and you realize it's a district government tax administration. As you look at her, you realize that she is simply obliged to pay all taxes, including customs. So I think it's just a wish, a certain test of the national MPs for weakness. We're strong! We've read this proposal and I'm sure there's no one in this room to support it, because someone already, and you definitely have money, you know that. And so you're saying that this will reduce the burden on the state budget? No, this will increase the burden on the State Budget. The molder pays his taxes honestly. So, as noted in this rostrum, not only are these cases overcrowded, but they are overcrowded. Because there's a little bit going on now that there's at least a small but a financial limit. So even those things that should not be dealt with in advance will be involved if there are no restrictions. And they're going to go to court right now. So I emphasize that we should be friendly, unanimous about rejecting this indiscreet attempt to test the national MPs for their nationality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u67	There's two of us against it. Melniczuk Mikhailo. None. Nigger Vladimir, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u68	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Doubts bring me no less satisfaction than knowledge. I have doubts as to the correctness of the conclusion made by the PIC and the National Deputies of Carmazin and School. What's the point? In view of the limited funds allocated by the Board of Securities, it is virtually incapacitated from the possibility of resorting to a court to protect the rights of investors. I think it's a completely abnormal situation. The commission is called upon to protect the rights of investors. And we owe it to her to do so. It's a small cost. But if investors feel that their rights are being protected, it will help create a favourable investment climate in Ukraine and contribute to the involvement of both domestic and external investment. Without that, economic growth is not possible, but on this basis the growth of prosperity. Therefore, if we want to secure investment, ensure that the internal and external capital is built up, that the sources of investment are pooled inside and outside, we are obliged to ensure that investors’ rights are protected. One of the institutions called upon to do so is the Securities Commission. The adoption of the bill will help the Securities Commission to protect the rights of investors. So I think we have enough reason to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. Of course, it is not perfect, but we have the ability to make changes, the adjustments to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u69	Dear colleagues! We have concluded the discussion, and now, in accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the adoption of draft Law 1145 amending article 4 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decree on State Customs. Please vote. [[16:52:00]] For 178. The law is rejected. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Decree on State Customs, number 1145-1. Please vote. [[16:52:34]] For-170. The bill was rejected. From Semenyuk's motives, please, the Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u70	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. I'd like to make an offer to you, and let's take a look at these documents. Today, the Securities Commissions often have to appeal to the court about the return of state property or the illegal supply of securities. They don't have money in their budget to pay their taxes. So let's either send it back to the first reading or support it. Because we really need to move forward today. There are appropriate violations of privatization. They go to court and there must be some mechanism to compensate them. So let's take a look and support this document. This is the first time I've referred to the opposition that the government on this side is right.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u71	A draft Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of Small State Enterprises is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the granting of benefits to creative associations]] I can't go back to my first reading, because the committee offered to reject it. I'll put it to a vote. They're not accepted, so they're automatically rejected. We don't have another way out. If we apply the practice of repetitive reading in all cases, that means that we will postpone and give ourselves additional work. Thus, a draft law amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of Small State Enterprises, Small Privatization, on the granting of benefits to creative associations is being considered. Document number 3502. Reporter - Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, head of the State Property Fund I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u72	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of Small State Enterprises, Small Privatisation is designed to implement paragraph 21 of the National Creative Associations Act in support of the National Creative Associations Programme for 2003-2004, approved by the Government. The law is based on the need to promote creative activities in connection with the development of national culture and art. The main objective of the Ukrainian Act on Change in the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of Small State Enterprises, Small Privatisation is to improve the legal and social protection of members of national creative communities. It is proposed to amend article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Small Privatization of Small State Enterprises, which aims to help privatise creative craftsmanship by members of national creative communities. The implementation of the proposed project does not require additional material and other costs, the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Change of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of Small State Enterprises, Small Privatization is a promotion of national culture and art, creating favourable conditions for creative work, enhancing the skills of members of national creative communities. A request for support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u73	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee, Shandra Volodymir Mikolaiovich, deputy head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u74	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting considered the bill and invited the national deputies to accept it as a basis. The bill proposes to determine the cost of the building and the building, in which the creative workshops are located when they are purchased by national creative associations for creative activity, not by the general method approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which provides for consideration in determining the price of the object of privatization, its potential profitability, and otherwise. The bill referred to above is designed to create conditions for the development of national culture. At the same time, there are several questions about this project: The project should provide for the price of the sale of the specified objects, and it should be clarified that the object of privatization at the tax price should not be the whole building, only the buildings used as works. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u75	Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention to this law. I'll read it again with your permission: "Part One of the First Article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of Small State Enterprises: Small Privatization -- after the words of the Chernobyl disaster -- to complete with the words, "the buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings where the creative workshops are located in the event of their acquisition by national creative associations exclusively for creative activity." What are we here to discuss? Let's vote, let the people work. Is there no objection? Let's take that as a law. Well, there's nothing to discuss here, dear fellows! I'm voting on adoption as a basis and as a whole as a bill of the bill. Please vote. Please vote. [[16:58:13]] For 233 The law is passed. Please, with the motive of Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u76	Vladimir Mikhailovich, it's a pity you didn't notice. Yuri Carmazin. I'd like you to think about what we're doing. In fact, there were once handing out creative workshops, and it was predicted that then these creative workshops would be passed on, because these are very expensive rooms now. And once again, creative people will not be able to get these rooms. If we now grant permission to privatize them, we forget that all these creative people will still not be able to produce, that is, we are closing the road to the young. So we're doing okay, Vladimir Mikhailovich? Whoever's in the house today is fine, he's buying. Is that what we do in the state? Is that what we do with a view to the future? So I think now those who voted haven't thought about what they've done. We had to vote against such a bill, of course, because it's against, in fact, the members of those communities that we supposedly care about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u77	Thank you. A draft law on amending the Ukrainian law on the promotion of agriculture for the period 2001-2004 on the stability of tobacco enterprises is being announced. Ukrainian Minister of Agriculture Rybuk Sergey Mikolayovich will report. To prepare Paul Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u78	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The aim and purpose of the adoption of this law is that the project is designed to bring Ukraine's legislation on the promotion of agriculture for the period 2001-2004 into line with the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, as well as to harmonise Ukraine's legislation with universal international standards in the context of Ukraine's integration into the European Union and its accession to the WTO. The project envisages exceptions to article 2 on the basic principles for the interaction of public authorities, governments and producers, and paragraph 4 of section 8 of the Final Provisions on the mandatory use of tobacco-producing enterprises grown and fair. in Ukraine, tobacco. For what reasons this is proposed. The positions proposed to be excluded are above all contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the State protection of the rights of all property and management entities. This is article 13. To ensure the State’s freedom of entrepreneurial activity, to protect competition in entrepreneurial activities, to prevent abuses of monopoly on the market, and to unfairly restrict competition. This is article 42. These positions, now in force, are also contrary to the laws of Ukraine on entrepreneurship, this article 5. About Ukraine’s businesses, articles 20, 22 and 23. And about limiting monopolism and not allowing unfair competition in entrepreneurship in part of not allowing interference in the business and other activities of public authorities. Nor does the process of harmonising Ukraine's legislation with international norms in the context of Ukraine's integration into the European Union, since they do not comply with Article 3, paragraph 5, of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, which stipulates that neither party should establish or maintain any internal regulation concerning the mixing of the processing of goods. And it goes against article 15 of the Partnership Agreement, cooperation between Ukraine and the EU. This will balance the adoption of this law with legal norms, allowing Ukraine to further adapt its legislation to the requirements of the EU. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u79	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Paul Sulkowski, deputy head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u80	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Ukraine's draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Act on Promoting Agricultural Development 2001-2004 was developed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to implement Presidential Decree No. 1004/2002 on the Programme of Measures to End Ukraine's Entry into the World Trade Organization. The project is intended to exclude regulations on the mandatory use of tobacco companies, manufacturers of tobacco produced and fermented in Ukraine. Paragraph 11, Articles 2 and 8, paragraph 4, of Section 8, “Final position” of the law. The necessity of repealing the stated rules of law is explained by their inadequacy with the Constitution of Ukraine and with the laws of Ukraine, in particular in article 13 of the Constitution, in ensuring the State’s protection of the rights of all subjects of property and tenure, and article 42 of the Constitution as part of ensuring the State’s freedom of entrepreneurial activity, protecting competition in entrepreneurial activities, preventing abuses of monopoly on the market, and unduly restricting competition. Under the Ukrainian Act on Entrepreneurship, Article 5 on Entrepreneurship in Ukraine, Articles 20 and 22 on the protection of economic competition in the area of non-interference in agriculture and other activities of enterprises by public authorities, self-sustainment of material and technical security, self-sustainment, choice of suppliers and consumers of manufactured products, etc. In addition, the exclusion of those provisions of the law requires the removal of their inadequacy with the rules and requirements of the World Trade Organization, since those provisions do not comply with article 3, paragraph 5, of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, which provides that neither party should establish or maintain any internal regulation concerning the mixing of processing or the use of goods in defined quantities or proportions. Confronts article 15 of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Communities and Ukraine, which provides that imported goods are provided with an equally favourable regime. Dear National Deputies! The findings of this project are considered appropriate by the General Scientific and Expert Office, to support the legislative position aimed at enacting the Ukrainian Law on the Promotion of Agriculture for 2001 and 2004 in accordance with the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, and to harmonize Ukraine's legislation with the popular international standards in the context of Ukraine's integration into the European Union and its accession to the World Trade Organization. Dear National Deputies! Our committee at the meeting can say that there will be some discussion and that it has not been supported at first sight by this project. However, to this day my personal position and I have spoken with many people’s deputies and members of my committee that this project must be supported today, and I urge the people’s deputies to vote in favour of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u81	Dear colleagues! Two "for", two "against". Please sign up for the performance. Light up on the board, please. Mikola Rudzkowski. No, it's Mikola Rudzkowski. Is John the Resolute? None. Vladimir Puzakov, please. Secretariat, take off Rudzkowski's computer, Rishnjak
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u82	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine The adoption of this bill is based on the need to enforce the law in accordance with the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. This will also have a positive impact on the financial situation of tobacco producers. The bill can be supported with changes and additions. But what I want to propose to this bill. Repealing the fourth paragraph of the article of chapter two, "The Final Position" of the Ukrainian Law "Promoting the Development of Agriculture for the period 2001-2004 on the introduction of mandatory use by producers of manufactured and fermented tobacco raw materials in Ukraine will have a negative impact on the development of their own raw materials base in Ukraine, and could lead to the lack of demand for tobacco raw materials being reduced by agricultural producers and their production. Taking into account these, as well as a number of other negative facts that may arise as a result of the deletion of the paragraph, I propose not to include article 2, paragraph 4, as one that would result in negative socio-economic effects in the countryside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u83	You support it, don't you? Yuri Carmazin, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u84	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Certainly the law that is being considered today to amend the Law on Promoting the Development of Agriculture 2001-2004, he pursued a good goal: to harmonise Ukrainian legislation with the requirements of GAT SOT. Because, according to the tariff and trade agreements, none of the parties should lay down any rules on the quantitative regulation of the use of goods, including those that require the supply of certain quantities of goods from domestic sources. And let's see what the Americans did with respect to Chinese goods and why the dollar just dropped. The Americans simply carried out protective measures against their manufacturer. This is what we need to do, and we need to learn. And I'm paying attention to the government. You've ruined the bread question. You've led the country to what you're now proposing and importing from 237 to reduce the minimum wage to 205. It's completely unheard of. You're actually going to beat yourself up against your people. Now, under this law, which was compared to 1997, the purchase price of tobacco produced in Ukraine rose by 39 percent. If growing it had been harmful before, it had become profitable. During the operation of the law, the employment of the population increased by 20,000 peasants who had previously had no jobs or income. The wages of the peasants who were involved in the tobacco industry increased from 2.50 to 25 dollars a day. What, though, is the result that the government is lobbying whom today? Foreign companies. Thus, the adoption of this bill will definitely lead to reduced jobs in villages, where there is nowhere to work at all. And so we're going to have Ukraine, where there's no village, where the population in the villages is shrinking. And according to the United Nations, by 2050, Ukraine would have dropped by 40 percent. That is why I believe that this law cannot be passed and I urge you not to do so. By the way, listen to our colleagues. We have a faction of Ukrainian Agrarians who also said that this is impossible to accept. So let's not rush to hell in front of our father. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u85	Yuri Solomatin. None. Is it? Where can't I see it? Oh, it's taking off. Calm down, please. Solomonine passes it on to Peter Simonenko. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u86	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the Communist faction will not support this project and urge you not to vote for it. This is about us adopting the Law on Promoting Rural Development 2001-2004. And they predicted that 10 percent of tobacco - grown tobacco factories would definitely buy tobacco from their home producer. Now to the demands of the WTO, which is exactly what I am addressing today, this standard is being destroyed as a requirement. Then the same tobacco factories that do not belong to Ukraine, and this is a disgrace to the entire leadership of Ukraine in previous years, which through privatization have created such conditions. All of this will lead to reduced jobs, reduced crops, and a mixed budget. As I draw your attention, only 14 million tons of grain have been collected this year. And this is a disgrace to Ukraine. And we assume that the foundation is going to be that the material base of the agricultural producer is going to be destroyed. The Communist faction denies and will not support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u87	Andrew School, please. And now we're going to vote. Invite the deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u88	The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. First of all, I would like to point out that of course, tobacco problems are of little interest to me because I do not smoke or advise everyone. And in general it would be very good if the Supreme Council were an example of non-smoking, to have at least those who would vote in favour of this bill vote only those who smoke or. I would like to point out that there is much to be said here about the quality of this bill or its inequities. We need to determine whether we are going to the WTO, the World Trade Organization, or not? If we go, it's not like that. We have to, you know, politics is the art of compromise. But I'd like to make it different, politics is an art of making you compromise. And Ukraine has to compromise with it, not compromise itself with the various inequitable compromises that are offered here. The destruction of Ukrainian tobacco production is the destruction of jobs. And I'm saying again, although it's really against us to grow tobacco, I'm saying that we have our cigarettes to export, to go to Europe, to go along the GAT SOT line so that our quality tobacco doesn't poison ourselves to Ukrainians, but to use all its positive Europeans. Therefore, I would like to point out that the fifth article of the General Agreement does not harmonize. Trade. Confronts article 15 of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement with the Inter-European Society and Ukraine, which provides for non-imported goods, is granted no less favourable treatment than that granted to similar products of national origin for all laws, regulations and requirements that affect domestic sales offered for sale and purchase, transportation, distribution or use. So once again, I urge the government to work harder, to propose a bill worthy of the Supreme Council, and then we can discuss its acceptance or its rejection. I would recommend that all of you, in protest of the destruction of our health here with you, vote against it. And seriously, we should finally offer a better design. And you know, I always support agriculture in general and tobacco production in particular. But this bill is weak enough to be offered in that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u89	Thank you. Vladimir Leschchenko, a committee rep. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u90	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I point out to you that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sulkowski, was not speaking from the committee, but was speaking from those who lobbyed the interests of tobacco companies in our foreign territory. And the committee has a completely different opinion. We've been very careful about this bill, and we're talking about that the bill needs to be rejected, because it's going to be aimed not at stimulating our agricultural producer, but at failing it. That is why I propose to all the Ukrainian people's deputies to vote in favour of rejecting the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u91	Replica, Sulkowski. So it's gone, and it's gone now. Well, please, Sulkovsky Paul, please. While looking for Sulkowski, please, Stanislaw Gurenko, a replica. Is It With a Motive? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to this. In the latest version of the World Trade Organization report for this year in the report, I'm turning your weight every day to the state support of my own manufacturers, developed countries are spending $1 billion a day. The United States, countries of the European Union, and Japan mainly do so. And they're doing it to protect their agriculture, mostly. And I call on all deputies not to support this project, to be patriots of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, have you found an opportunity there? Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u94	Dear National Deputies! Talks that just some of our colleagues said that Sulkowski was lobbying for someone's project, I want to say that you're taking a very big sin on your soul, if you're talking about such things first. Secondly, all the colleagues who said, they absolutely didn't get into the essence of the draft law, absolutely. And they just don't really say it. And that's why I, the honourable national MPs, urge once again that this bill, if we support it now, will benefit both Ukraine and the peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the committee heads to organize the work in this way, if the rapporteur reports -- he'll report to the committee. Then he speaks of his particular thought of having a normal working atmosphere. Or delegate to those who support the committee's decision. Therefore, dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of the matter. I'm voting on the adoption of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Development of Agriculture 2001-2004 on the Stabilising of Tobacco Enterprises. This is document number 1137. Please vote. [[17:20:21]] For-166 The law is rejected. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Promoting Agricultural Development 2001-2004 is being announced for consideration. But before that, dear colleagues, how to begin the discussion, I want to pay your attention. A document that we've just rejected, which is what it's made of. Paragraph 11 of article 2 and paragraph 8 of paragraph 4 shall be deleted. Let's take the next law. It reads: Paragraph 3 of paragraph 4 delete. Well, if you wanted to, you could do one project at least. Well, I just don't understand what this is about with the Supreme Council. Please report to Ukrainian Minister of Agriculture Rybuk Sergey Mikolayovich. Prepare Mealnik Mikola Eutychyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u96	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill provides for the repeal of paragraph 3 of section 7, paragraph 4, of the Act "Promoting the Development of Agriculture for the period 2001-2004" by which the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, together with the National Bank of Ukraine, has been entrusted with the development of a draft law on the characteristics of agricultural lending. The implementation of the draft law does not require additional costs from the State budget. In introducing the bill to the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers was guided by the fact that the features of agricultural lending should indeed be governed by the laws of Ukraine. But considering that the 2nd paragraph of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree of October 2, 2003, issue 1217-4 on the adoption of the second draft law on State and budgetary support for the agricultural sector of Ukraine. It is suggested that when the draft law is finalized for third reading, the chapter on credit policy in the agro-industry sector, including the order in which credit is lost, should be shown. In addition, in view of the fact that paragraph three of the above-mentioned decree provides for the Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking, together with the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, with the participation of Kabmin and other entities of the legislative initiative, to prepare the draft law for third reading and to submit it for consideration by the Supreme Council in October 2003. We find it inappropriate to develop another separate draft law on this issue, as this may lead to the dispersion of basic principles of lending to agriculture in different laws, which in turn may lead to disagreement, interpretation and so forth. Moreover, there is now a framework law on the basic principles of agrarian politics on the way out to the Supreme Council, which provides for these issues. And it's also working on the initiative of the people's deputies to draft the Law on Financial and Budgetary Support for Agriculture. So we ask your permission to make a decision and, as a law, to make a provision for the development of a separate law on the characteristics of credit and. Exclusion of agriculture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u97	Thank you. Please sit down, Sergey Mikolayovich. Mikola Eutychiewicz Melnik is Head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u98	Dear, the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations has reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Promoting Agricultural Development 2001-2004, registration number 3583 of 04.06.2003. It should be noted that under the Ukrainian Act on Promoting Rural Development 2001-2004, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted 18 January 2001. This law defines the basic principles of public policy for the period of agricultural formation during 2001-2004 as a priority area of the national economy. And chapter 8 of the Final Regulations defines the date on which the current law and duties of the Ukrainian Ministry of Agriculture are to be made available. Ukraine's agriculture development for 2004. The draft law is proposed to delete paragraph 3, paragraph 4, of the law. Final provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Promoting Rural Development 2001-2004. That's right. The purpose of the further bill is to avoid the spread of basic principles of lending to agriculture under different laws. But this cannot be the basis for failure by the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank. on the development of a draft Ukrainian Law on the features of agricultural lending. Agricultural production is risky and seasonal. which requires the State to provide adequate financial support with, for example, a credit scheme, so it is appropriate to replace the existing system of agricultural subsidies with the State budget to create an effective agricultural lending system. After considering the law. a bill, a committee proposed to repeal paragraph 3 of section 7, paragraph 4, in the Final Provisions of the Act, which was commissioned by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the National Bank of Ukraine by September 1. In March 2001, a draft law on the characteristics of agricultural lending. notes the next one. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as the author of the bill, believes that the definition of the mechanisms for the allocation of funding. to provide financial support to agriculture through extended credit, the development of a rule to ensure that loans are returned in line with both the return delay and the national one. Unearmarked use of credit for a particular law will lead to the spread of basic principles of lending to the agricultural sector. Today, however, most of the issues related to lending are determined by the regulations of the National Bank of Ukraine. It is also important to note the requirement of article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine that the principles of the creation and financing of the credit market are determined exclusively by the laws of Ukraine. In view of what has been said, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u99	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. John the Rabbit, get ready for Nigger. Nigga's refusing, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u100	John the Rabbit. Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! On January 18, 2001, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Act on Promoting Agricultural Development 2001-2004. This law defines the basic principles of public policy for the period of reform of rural, agricultural, and rural areas as a priority for the economy. The “end-of-life” bill provides for a draft Ukrainian law on the characteristics of agricultural lending. The Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank are to do this work. Now the Cabinet of Ministers is proposing that the Supreme Council decide not to develop such a bill. In my opinion, the Cabinet of Ministers is not logical. Both the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank and the Supreme Council are obliged to develop the situation in the country and to adopt the Law on Agricultural Credit. At first glance, as if lending to the village was fine, the state covered part of the bank loan, and only a few percent remained to be covered by the farms. But if you look at it from the other side, and what part of the credits are served that way, we'll see that only a third and no more. I mean, what's he talking about? This suggests that agricultural enterprises are now placed in such conditions that they cannot today benefit from normal lending. And loans are very necessary, both for farming today and for the technical rearming of the village. And long - term loans are needed to rearm the village. So, dear friends, we need to take a look at the entire village lending chain today. We must do so and anticipate such funds in the State Budget that today would allow the village to technologically renovate. What kind of problems are there today? There is an agricultural enterprise. She wants a loan. He is told: Make a bet and make such a bet, a technique that he may not have today. On the other hand, we now have 70 percent of agricultural businesses. How can this enterprise today make a normal mortgage or, at a fixed date, repay the loan interest? I don't think so. And other mechanisms are starting to work, to destroy the village. So the bank says you can't pay off these interest rates today, so we're not prolonging this loan for a year according to the Cabinet of Ministers' decree. I was in the Vinnitsk district, and I was told by several village representatives that they were not being loaned such loans. So, honourable people's deputies, despite the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers came up with such an offer, our task is to develop a normal village lending system, if we want to technically renovate it and make it a highly efficient industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u101	Thank you. Vladimir Cherniak. Carmazine refuses.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u102	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. In his time, Churchill said, "I thought I was going to die of old age, but I'm probably going to die laughing that Russia is importing grain." He meant the Soviet Union. I don't want to die from the fact that Ukraine imports grain. Any reference can be made to adverse weather conditions, but the conclusion may be that agriculture is placed under unfavourable economic and financial conditions. And that's the main cause of the deep long-term crisis in agriculture. The main task of Parliament and the government is to create favourable economic, including credit, tax and other conditions for agriculture. Individual companies can be harmful. But there shouldn't be any damage. Agriculture is a destructive sector. If there are damage to businesses, the management of businesses is to blame. If there are harmful industries, it is the government and the parliament of the country that is to blame. So we and the government are to blame for the loss of agriculture. And our main problem in this respect is to overcome the damage to agriculture, to develop an adequate, forward-looking economic policy, including credit. Now directly on the bill. Agriculture is a priority sector. In this regard, there should be a number of features of agricultural lending. [[The government's right, I agree with him.]] Which way? First of all, mortgages. Second, the transition to long-term loans. In connection with this same idea, the bill can be supported. I wouldn't explicitly deny it. But it's a palate. I agree with what has been said that we need to develop a comprehensive forward-looking systemic credit policy. That's right. But again, I have doubts. You know, you're getting less definite with age. I have my doubts. I understand that this bill is not a way out of this. And we need to think about how we can draft a bill that would be more effective. But perhaps, while there is no such bill, perhaps it would be appropriate to accept this one as a political one. Although, of course, I'm not thrilled with this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u103	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u104	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Yesterday, we heard all over the TV channels that the government is holding up, the good government is being hampered by the bad Parliament's work. In fact, it turns out that everything is quite the other way around, respectable government officials. Why? Who allowed you, who allowed you, since 2000, not to comply with the requirement of the agricultural promotion law for the period 2001-2004? Because that's the result of the failures that are happening all the time, and we're reaping them now. You had until March 1st, as it was written in paragraph 3, paragraph 4, of the Eighth Final Position, before March 1st, 2001 along with the National Bank of Ukraine, and Mr. Tihypco is to sit here and report that he also collapsed and failed this, to draft a law on the characteristics of agricultural lending. This time, Leonid Danilovich, you're in Fefania, I know what you're hearing, I know you're watching, so I want you to ask questions about the responsibility of the members of the National Bank and the government for failing to comply with the applicable laws of Ukraine. That is, for three years, the law has not been complied with. Now you tell me there's nothing to regulate? What's the reason? What motivates you now that you have failed to comply with the requirements of the law? So I would have written in the indictment if I had written it today, because I think that failure to comply with the law is a minimum negligence on the part of officials. So what I'd write is that I'd write it down that you, ignoring the will of the people and the Supreme Council as his representative. So you write: implementation of the rules of law provides an opportunity to ensure that basic principles of lending to agriculture are avoided without giving anything. And in the State Budget Act, there's only a fixed amount of money to compensate for the debt lending. There is no fully defined mechanism for the distribution of funds aimed at financial support to the agricultural producer through the use of credit. And now we're going to budget and it's not going to happen again. And once again, we're not going to have any rules on how to guarantee the return of credit. And we won't find credit again! Once again, we will not be held responsible for the delay of return! Once again, we will not assume responsibility for the purposeless use of credit! And in this regard, I say that, ladies and gentlemen, remember that there is a Constitution of Ukraine, article 92, which states that the principles of the creation and functioning of the credit market are defined exclusively by laws. And what you regulate today by acts of the National Bank is illegal. I'm against this law! And I suggest you put him on the board, show him the government's zero!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u105	Thank you. The law is closed. For reasons, please, Peter Mikolaiovich. We're going to vote now, please mobilize.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u106	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The Communist faction won't support this bill from the following. The government does not enforce many laws to support the village. This is the first time. Second, delay characterizes the very attitude towards an agri-industrial complex that leads to the destruction of our village. How is this strengthened? 1990 - 50 million tons of grains were harvested, this year - 14. 1990: 24 million. Head of cattle, now nine. In 1990, 100,000 tractors were collected for Ukraine. In this, or last year, 3.5 thousand tractors. We Communists did not once offer a village support package. Among them, including these loans, or the special lending regime of an agribusiness complex. Secondly, it's a parity of prices for agricultural production and one that goes from car builders to the countryside. It's also the purchase of grain into woodsheds and a lot of other things. The Communist faction will not support this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u107	Thank you. Fishlegs, last word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, 30 seconds. Of course, in 2001, today’s government did not work. But we're responsible and we've analyzed all the legislation, brought them into the system. And they picked up those that weren't being implemented in 2001, and that's why we're looking at this today, they're proposing to systematize, unify and make it dynamic and orderly. So all I'm asking is this line to my mind that in this case the government is responsible for all the laws adopted by the Supreme Council. In 2001 though. But I would like to tell the distinguished National Deputy Carmazin that as a national deputy, we react and work better. As a member of the government, I say. And as an electorate, I ask you to be more polite and tolerant and not to get too excited about even criticizing a sick president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u109	Thank you. Sergei Mikolaiovich, I don't think there's any need to raise deputies here. They know what they need to do. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Promoting Agricultural Development for the period 2001-2004. [[on crediting the sector]] Please vote. [[17:40:20]] For-198 The law is rejected. It's being announced. It wasn't the national MP, you don't have to. The minister's already gone, that's all. A draft law on the development of the Ukrainian car industry is being announced for consideration. Reporters of Ukraine’s national deputy Jaroslav Suhiy, prepare Anatoly Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u110	Honorable National MPs. Jaroslav Suhiy city of Zaporozhye faction of SDPU(O). Among the priorities of legislative policy in the field of priority management in all market economies, this has already been discussed in this room today. There is State support for a domestic producer. And especially in the high - tech sector, such as automobile construction, including Ukrainian automobile construction. Not only is the world’s production of Ukrainian machinery, especially automobile construction and aircraft construction, but instead of economic competition, has to do with severe political opposition. Before that, our economic legislation has long been in need of harmonization with international law. State intervention is also needed because automobile production is a measure of material well-being, an integral part of the satisfied social needs and demands of our citizens. And we have to do everything we can, depending on how this makes the Ukrainian car more affordable to consumers. As evidenced by the world’s car-building practices, there is a multiplicity in the adjacent sectors of the economy and a steady increase in employment. Because one job in the automobile industry creates 7.8 jobs in adjacent industries. I'm going to remind you of the total number of people working in the car industry is over 85,000. In turn, more than 600 suppliers of raw materials, materials, kits, and more than 200,000 employees will provide stable work for motor vehicles. Today, for example, one of Ukraine’s leading automobile companies, Zaporezki Automobile Plant, is working with most 500 Ukrainian suppliers to secure their purchases. Dear National Deputies! With the adoption of Bill 3677, better conditions will be created for the development of the internal market for metal, chemistry, electronics, and so forth. It's about putting in a person, like ZAZU and other car companies, a really powerful and efficient national consumer, who after the adoption of the bill will significantly expand cooperation with domestic co-producers. Dear National Deputies! From this rostrum will continue to grow the bill’s bill on automobile construction, which does not lead to filling, but rather to additional budget costs. Therefore, Ukraine’s proposed draft Law 3677 does not require additional budget costs. It will fill the budget for the next year for one billion dollars. On the contrary, it will contribute to the full and stable growth of the budget, and at least one of these circumstances already deserves the full support and approval of the project as a whole, as a law. I propose to vote in favour of draft Law 3677 in the first reading and in general as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u111	Anatoly Seminoga. Under bill 3677-2, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u112	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! We are considering a very important bill with you today, and therefore I personally do not understand why a simplified procedure is being considered in violation of the Supreme Council Rules. Because it's a huge sector, a leading sector of our nation's economy. Perhaps there is no doubt that there is a need to support a given sector that needs state support. But let's go back to the story on this. It started in 1997, when the Auto-ZAZA was created, and this SP was approved by an investment program approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, and unprecedented benefits were granted. And virtually today, this company pays no taxes at all but a tax on the wages of its employees. And what do we have in five years? In five years, no modern model of a car, namely a Ukrainian car, has been introduced. The production of a full, full-scale cycle takes place today only two models -- "Tavria" and "Slavuta" At the same time, the work is very active in what is called the large-scale collection of foreign vehicles. Thank you. Is it appropriate today to support the production of foreign vehicles? So a group of MPs are proposing a bill -- I want to remind you that today it's not about the release of domestic cars, it's about the folding of what's called the "open" folding of domestic cars. We suggest that we give equal opportunities to all participants in this process in the automotive market. The possibility of aiding businesses with investment in the production of motor vehicles and spare parts for cars These are the following benefits. Exemption from income tax in the part that is directed towards production development, exemption from the payment of import duties on goods used by an enterprise for the use of cars and refusal of existing land taxes, VAT on excise duty, and excise collection for the sale of cars. We strongly believe that our bill will allow us to unlock the car situation and create a level playing field for all market participants. Please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u113	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. On board, please, the names of the national MPs. Oh, excuse me, take off, please. Cushka Vasil Petrovich from the committee. I'm in a hurry. I'm sorry. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u114	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I will not go into the details of these laws. I'll tell you the history of the adoption of this law by our committee. First, two bills were registered: 3677 and 3677-1. The Committee invited all the co-sponsors of the laws to investigate, specifically set up a driving-by-car session, because there were two bills. We're on our way to AutoZAZ. They've seen the production. The full economic performance of the enterprise has been heard. After that, a decision was taken at the Committee's exit meeting at Auto-ZAZA and all the authors and one bill, and the second alternative agreed that the law was needed by the country, that it should be consolidated and passed by a single law. All the authors of the Act and 3677 and 3677-1 submitted a single bill. And we had to consider it. But because of our political conflicts in Parliament, it has been postponed. During this period, part of the drafters of the bill withdrew their signatures, namely Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga and others, and submitted an alternative bill. There is also another alternative bill. The Committee considered both those and those bills, but decided, did not repeal its original decision and recommended to the Supreme Council the adoption of Law 3677. Thank you. I've finished my report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u115	Thank you, Vasil Petrovich. Have a seat, please. On the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up for the performance. Baburin, Communist faction. Get ready for Bastris.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, it has already been said that it was in this very room that a law was passed in 1997 that gave rise to a resurgence of road construction in Ukraine. And today, thanks to the adoption of the law at the time, today there is excellent production. In 9 months, 600 million bracelets were added to Ukraine's budget. 537 links and suppliers are working today for this production. A small collection of Opeli and VAZov is planned for 2004. And that's why it's coming out of here. This is a normal business today. And there are alternative projects that say that you have to drive a semi-exploded car, pick it up with a key and a hole, and get the refinements of those that get and don't even get a team of 16,000. Another 20,000 jobs are planned next year. So let's put our employees abroad. We'll pay for jobs there. Therefore, I regret that the President's decree, which I refer to our Ukraine, was a political decision. I think if we support this law today, there will be new investments, there will be both LUAZ, and CRAZ, and LAZ. Let us therefore work for Ukraine, for the people of Ukraine, and not for individual individuals. Please support Law 3677.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u117	John Bastrig, faction of "Ukraine". Next is Paul Zebravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u118	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! We can say today, obviously, first year, with pride that the construction of the current year, now that we are working with the coalition government, has risen by more than 30 per cent. This is what every civilized country does. So, what is the law that we are discussing today? The first thing you don't have to worry about is the budget is going to be lost. The budget next year provides for income from the work of AutoZAZA 1 billion. This is 100,000 jobs where good wages are paid, where the remaining taxes are paid. Therefore, our colleagues who were in Zaporozhye viewed this creation as the right approach to using the legislative framework through investment. Having given some benefits, we are seeing some serious results today, four-fold increase in production and further development, development and production. Going out on the open road of cars and buses and so on is a road to nowhere. Please, I ask you and all those present in the Hall to support this law and to enable the development of this only major automotive enterprise in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u119	Paul Zebravsky, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Vasil Gurieva.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u120	Paul Zebravsky, 65 constituency, faction of our Ukraine. I would like to say, dear colleagues, that the laws similar to automobile industry support are in order of seven. But these laws are interesting enough, i.e. who is who some businesses are set aside in every law, and they only support some businesses. So let's look at Law 3677. What is proposed? Introducing the first article: A car manufacturing company, a spare parts production company, which includes manufacturing alongside other automobiles and prefabricated products and spare parts of cars and spare parts and spare parts to them by the country of origin of Ukraine. It is a discriminatory norm. She's only supporting four enterprises -- "ZA," "LAS," "CROAT," "LUAZ." Article 2 of "Victims to Automobile Enterprises": Having a decreed Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in an orderly investment programme and a job creation plan will result in only ZAZ and LAZ being able to produce and build vehicles. This project does not provide benefits for businesses. which will have an investment program approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And these enterprises at the time of production power generation will have unequal conditions compared to importers and businesses that already have such preferences. I'd like to say that setting up import duties for engines and industrial folding units imported from countries that have no free trade regime will be 20 percent. At the same time, if cars are ready, the bribe will be 15, 12, 10 percent. So we encourage imports, imports of cars, not gathering them here. I'm quite curious. Today we have to register for 40 days to buy cars, auto-zaz production, and we still love one monopolist. Let's do one monopoly, lose all businesses, this is order 13 businesses that produce cars that have started this work, and then we're going to have prices that aren't cheaper than imported, because that's monopolization of production. And we can't let that happen, honorary fellow MPs. Furthermore, I would like to say that Law 3677-2 provides for the support of not one manufacturer, does not support or love a monopolist, but supports the entire automotive sector. I think we should support Law 3677-2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u121	Basil Gureyev. We already have one. It's okay. Dear colleagues, we still have Gureev, Bespali, and that's it, and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u122	Dear fellow MPs! In fact, the question that we are considering today is very important to our machine - building work. And first of all, every country, industrially developed or considered to be such a country in the future, has to support domestic production. Production, not a large-scale assembly or a peer assembly. The fate of this law is very complex. Many years ago, three or four years ago, we offered to support the automotive sector. And the parliament of the previous convocation went out to meet and we had normal indicators. I believe, my fellow Members, we must uphold Law 3677. The other one. Car building is a field of engineering. And I don't want to be the one who's doing the treatment here, as they say, you know very well that it's a chemical industry, a metallurgical industry, an engine building -- something that we need to support and develop! Third. It is necessary to distinguish the production of cars from a large - wheeled collection. So there are other projects that have absolutely nothing to do with the production of cars. Dear colleagues, I suggest you stop this discussion. Please support Law 3677. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u123	Thank you. Boris Bespali is the last speaker. I ask that we now continue to work for a few minutes to complete this consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u124	Boris Bespaliy, faction of Victor Yushchenk's "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, I'm drawing your attention to the core of this conflict, if that's what it's called. What we want is what we get. We want to get a powerful branch or a powerful factory. And with regard to the previous speaker, I want to say that the law is not called manufacturing, manufacturing is a technology problem at a given plant. The factory is called the development of the automobile industry in Ukraine. And industry is not a single industry, it's a production complex. These are competing factories. So if we support the interests of the industry and not one factory, we should not give in to the sweet talk of lobbyists of the same enterprise, which we all respect very much, but not even one very good law will create a powerful sector, and finally, what we have in Ukraine today is what we have as a result of this policy. In addition to the interests of the sector that we must protect, we must also protect the interests of the domestic consumer. So a car is a people's vehicle. And if we say that for any future there or for the development of a city or for anything else, we have to leave all the efforts of the state to target one factory, I just don't understand it. I even think that the situation here is completely understood or we're protecting the sector and we're adopting a law or 36. which is in the interests of the industry, but we can't in any way support Law 3677 because it's a lobbyist law it's only one interest, I wouldn't even say production, in the interests of the leaders of one enterprise and the people they've been able to promote. I don't think the Ukrainian Patriotic Parliament is capable of doing that. So I think that Law 3677 does not support "Our Ukraine" or any other Ukrainian faction. And I propose that this law be rejected and that the second law be raised. Thank you for your attention and confidence in your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-20-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'll put the drafts in line for the vote. May I have your attention, please? In the process of coming, I'm voting on Project 3677 of the Karmazin People's Deputies and others, the draft of the Ukrainian Automobile Development Act for adoption. Please vote. [[18:00:56]] For 291 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's try it, there's insistence, I'm voting for acceptance in general. Please vote. Well, they demand, I put it to a vote. Let them determine. Calm down, dear fellows. Well, cancel the vote. I said cut the vote, I get it, come on, that's it. Calm down, please. Considered the basis. All of it. Well, I can't. If there's a rule, someone says no, I don't have a right. Well, you see. Well, you're raping me. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thanks for the job. Tomorrow we work on a Friday schedule.
