ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please register. It'll be easier, won't it? [[10:01:53]] Registered -234 There are 234 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputy of Ukraine, Alexi Petrovich. Let's welcome Alexi Petrovich and wish for all kinds of good things. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we have a government day today, but I would like to ask your permission to listen to the information of the head of our parliamentary delegation at PARE Boris Illich Oliynik about the last meetings, the decisions made by the Council of Europe. Please, Boris Illihu. How much do you need, 15, 20? How long? In 15 minutes, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. So without the polycythins, there's a chronicle of events. From March 31 to April 4, the second part of the PARE session took place in Strasbourg, in which a permanent delegation of Ukraine took part separately, alphabetically: Babourin, Gladys, Glaciers, Klimpus, Kostenko Olijnik, Pisarenko, Rahansky, Rybak, Šibko In addition to service-related issues, a draft convention on animal protection during international transport has been discussed, transport policy for a large Europe. On the protection of sign language, on the challenges of new agricultural policy, on the cultural situation in the South Caucasus. On the development of energy resources in the Caspian Sea region, on the improvement of the fate of rejected children in institutions. About the immunity of members of the Parliamentary Assembly, about the so-called crimes of honor. In the debates of these and other problems, the Oilynik "Europe and War in Iraq, Development of Culture in the South Caucasus" participated. Rahansky is "Europe and War in Iraq, Development of Culture in the Southern Caucasus and Energy Resources in the Caspian Sea Region." Hunger is "The task of new politics." Klimpush is a transport policy for a great Europe. Kostenko is the Energy Resources of the Caspian Sea Region. In addition, a draft recommendation on the convening of a summit to address the pressing problems of world order has been registered as an official document of the Assembly. The document was signed by all members of our delegation, as well as representatives of Britain, Italy, Lithuania, and Russia. As in previous sessions, Anatoly Rahanski has prepared a written declaration calling on the UN, the EU and the European Bank to provide scientific and technical and financial assistance to Ukraine in coping with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. It was supported by 23 members of the Assembly representing 13 countries and all political groups of the Parliamentary Assembly. On April 2nd, I met with the head of the French delegation, Mignon, and his colleagues Rogbluan and Bronze, about the revitalization of the cooperation of both countries and the delegations of the Assembly. On April 3, a ceremony was held to join the Council of Europe of Serbia and Montenegro. In view of the prudence of the lecture, I note that each speech contained constructive suggestions that found a positive response among the dignitaries of the assembly. The hottest, of course, and the longest debates unfolded with problems -- the human rights situation in the Chechen Republic and Europe and the crisis in Iraq. Regarding the first problem reported by Bindi of Germany, he argued that human rights in Chechnya were both violated and violated that the military who had committed crimes were not essentially punished. As recently as March 23, the referendum on the future Constitution of Chechnya does not give rise to confidence that if it continues to be so, it will be necessary to establish a tribunal for Chechnya. In response, the Russian side accused Bindi of prejudice because the referendum, in her view, took place for a fairly active part of the population, which is a step towards reconciliation and democratization. As far as the tribunal is concerned, this is a rather questionable measure. If they continue to insist on its creation, the Russian side will be able to resolve its internal affairs without the help of the Parliamentary Assembly. The vast majority of the discussers who took part in the late-crisis debate in Iraq strongly condemned the regime of Saddam Hussein, the actions of Anglo-American interventions that without UN sanctions started the war against the sovereign state. Only individual speakers tried to soften criticism with numerous amendments. However, only four of the more than 50 offered were accepted. In particular, the resolution calls for: Stop fighting immediately, renew efforts to resolve the conflict within the UN, ensure the protection of civilians and abide by the humanitarian right to free exchange of information and guarantee the independence of the media. The Assembly also warned the attackers that they could be held accountable for committing crimes against mankind. The full report of the session and the resolutions will be submitted to you in an orderly manner. Let me just point out that our delegation has been working together, thanks to colleagues from the Interparliamentary Liaison Department of the Supreme Council, separate from Vejacheslav Loksin, Andrew Korniychuk, Igor Pilyav, translators, postpartum workers in Strasbourg who helped us not for fear but for conscience. Taking this opportunity, I appeal to Vladimir Mikhailovich to join our delegation in at least one unit of women's sex, because today we are the only single male team in the Council of Europe, for which we are rightly criticized as the oppressed violators of gender policy. Now, a few words from yourself. Some fear that a well - known superstate will not forgive those who oppose war. We don't have to be scared. Grandpa and I are great-grandfathers on our land. Rather, the superstate and its local admirers need to consider whether they will be forgiven for what they have done. And finally. Naturally, each of us is entitled to his own angle of view with regard to the event in and around Iraq. But I am addressing everyone without exception and mass media, especially now that Iraq is getting, to refrain from making business calculations about what the benefits of Ukraine are after the end of the war. To seek profit when people die in severe pain, and first, children, when thousands of years of cultural and historical monuments fly into the air under bombs, are not even cynicism, it is an unforgivable sin. These people, the people of the unbreakables, Why did you give up kings? Why did you give up your dog? You're not dogs, are you? This is Chewchenko. In all circumstances and world conditions, then, let us be primarily people, not wallowings, tears, mountains, and blood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u3	Thank you, Boris Ilchiu, for you. Dear National Deputies, in accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 20 March this year, we are holding an extraordinary Government Day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the status of compliance with Ukrainian legislation on the issue of private property rights to land, land-pai certificates and their circulation, on the enforcement of Ukraine's legislation on the delimitation of the use and circulation of agricultural land. The government appointed the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, Anatoly Danilenko, as the spokesman for the above - mentioned issue. You have the appropriate manuals of the Cabinet of Ministers. On the basis of the position on the Government Day in Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Professional Committee proposes that such a rule of procedure be set. The reporter will give up to 20 minutes for the report and up to 30 minutes for answers to written oral questions. If necessary, we can continue to answer the questions. Representatives of the profile committee in 15 minutes for the co-report. And then to 14 hours of debate. If we do not take breaks, perhaps we will finish our work sooner or later. There is no objection to the rules. Well, in two hours we said. Well, 5-7, I think we'll have a chance to make a statement in five minutes today. If there is no objection, then, prior to a statement on the status of compliance with Ukrainian legislation on the issue of State acts on private property rights to land, land-pilla certificates and their circulation, on the enforcement of legislation in Ukraine on the nature of the use and circulation of agricultural land, the head of the State Committee on Land Resources has already been invited to the Anatoly Danilenko rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, guests, representatives of the media. Let me first of all thank you for the opportunity from this high rostrum to discuss the relevant issues of land reform that have matured in our society. The issues that have been put into discussion today at Government Day in the Supreme Council are of great importance in strengthening the economy of our country, the well-being of our citizens. The initiation of land reform is due without exaggeration to the historic decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on land reform. In the period leading up to 1994, the legislative framework for land reform was supplemented by Ukrainian laws on property, on land ownership, on land payments, on collective agriculture, on agricultural farming, on the new edition of the Ukrainian Code of Land, on the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers on land privatization, and so on. The next impulse in land reform is related to the Presidential decrees adopted in 1994-1995 on urgent measures to accelerate land reform in agricultural production and on the order in which land is sold to agricultural enterprises and organizations. These decrees determined the direction of reforming the country’s land relations for the next five years. According to these legislations, a large-scale land reform has been carried out through the burning of land transferred to the collective property of households issuing certificates to citizens that have certified their right to land share of the pie. Through these decrees, the right of members of collective agricultural enterprises, cooperatives, shareholding societies to land - pie, the right of free exit from these farms with the allocation of land - pie in kind in the area has become a reality, the creation of a real condition of equality of all forms of property. More than 50 per cent of the land of state ownership is now transferred to private property, representing over 71 per cent, [[And you can see it today in this diagram that you've been familiar with.]] agricultural agreements are privately owned. [[You can see it in diagram number two.]] More than 27 million acres [27 million ha] of farmland have been distributed, and nearly 7 million citizens have been eligible for land rations, of which 98 percent have been eligible. Certificates are being replaced for state acts, more than 3 million state acts have already been issued, representing more than 47 percent. [[This is shown in diagrams three and four.]] More than 11 million citizens have acquired private property for housing, personal farming, gardening, and specific garage construction. Over 86 percent of these areas are privatized, with a total area of over 3 million hectares. The social workers of the village have been transferred to the ownership and use of nearly 843,000 land areas of more than 580,000 hectares, as shown in diagram number 5. Please come in. For the social protection of peasants, landowners and landowners, pies, rents have been made, which is no less than one hectare, resulting from the President’s decree, a half percent of the land’s monetary valuation, which is on average 134 dollars per hectare. The total rent for 2002 is over two and a half billion dollars. In the development of the Land Pay for Land Act and with the aim of conducting economic land management methods, the Cabinet of Ministers approved in March 1995 the method of monetary valuation of agricultural land and population sites, followed by a monetary valuation of agricultural land, including cobwebs. In June 1996, the new Constitution of Ukraine finally established and guaranteed the right of private property to land. In October 1998, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Land Rental Act, which regulates the use of land on contractual grounds. Yes, honourable national MPs, it looks like the chronology of the most difficult stage of land-reforming, which has involved enormous work by scientists, national deputies, experts in regulatory work and the creation of institutional principles for new land ownership. This period can be described as a search for an optimal solution to the land issue and has been accompanied in vain by intense discussions, searches, losses, and gains. In 1999, President of Ukraine's decree on urgent measures to accelerate the reform of the agrarian sector of the economy launched a new phase of rural transformation -- reforming agricultural enterprises into institutional and legal structures of the market type based on private ownership of land and property. As a result of the reforms, more than 19,000 agroforms have been created, and this can be seen in the chart. The modern stage of land reform can be described as a stage of stabilization and land relations. It begins with the adoption on October 25, 2001, of Ukraine’s new Earth Code. The development of a series of laws will enable a more efficient land potential to be used by the country, through the integration of land into economic circulation, the provision of State guarantees, land rights, which will increase investors' interests in the Ukrainian economy. In accordance with the new Ukrainian Land Code and Presidential Decree No. 720 of 19.08.2002, adopted on 25 October 2001, on the improvement of the system of State administration of land resources, the executive authorities are required to ensure proper control over the use and protection of land, compliance with the requirements of land law and the prevention of violations. Most of the violations are related to the arbitrary occupation of land, the use of non-target land, the non-execution of the conservation regime of land use, or the execution of orders or prescriptions according to the specialists who are primarily responsible. In the past year and a half, more than 52,000 instructions have been given to the local authorities in the last year and over 46,000 reports have been drawn up, and 500 cases have been referred to the prosecutor’s office for criminal proceedings. The extreme negative phenomena that discredit State policy in the field of land relations must be addressed: violations of legislation in the process of transfer to ownership and circulation of land. In particular, it should be noted that the responsibility of local self-governance authorities and farm managers, who made up the lists of citizens of collective agricultural enterprises, was initially not included in the lists of landowners of about 164 thousand citizens. As a result of the work carried out by the executive authorities to remedy these violations, more than 154 thousand citizens have been restored to land rations, or 94 percent, including over 22,000 citizens, or 14 percent. At the same time, about two thousand citizens of Sulam were denied their claim to land-piai rights. More than five thousand citizens have been found who have wrongly obtained certificates of land-piai. They're depriving this right 4 grand. 600 citizens, or about 87 percent. There are also cases where the local authorities have not for a long time considered the claims or concerns of legal persons regarding the granting of land. At the same time, decisions are made on individuals from the day the application is made. We believe that this is a gross violation of the law, for which it is necessary for officials to be held accountable. In the exercise of control over compliance with land legislation, special attention is and will be paid. This issue was discussed at the extended college of the State Commission of Ukraine, which took place on 4 April this year, with the participation of representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Deputies of Ukraine, the Administration of the President of Ukraine, the Attorney General's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs as well as the media. These were gross violations of land law in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the city of Sevastopol, and in some other areas of Ukraine, and measures to eliminate these violations. Many violations have been made by owners and land users, as well as by local executive authorities and local self - government authorities. In the cities of Kiev, Sevastopol, Simferopoli, Kharkiv, Yalta, Dnipropetrovsk City Councils have set up committees on land administration, which are outside the single system of state authorities of land resources and are empowered by legislation to refer to the competence of the central executive authority on land relations, that is, the Democratic Republic of Ukraine. This leads to numerous violations of legislation, duplicating and a significant deterioration in the quality of service to citizens and legal persons on land use and ownership issues, such as the registration of land rights and leases. This is contrary to Ukraine's legislation on the creation of a single system of state-owned land administrations. Illegal action on the transfer to the city councils of the cadastre and documentation impedes the proper exercise of State control over the use and protection of land, the exercise of arbitrary seizure of land and the appropriate measures to remedy violations of land law in a timely manner. The facts of violations of legislation by the city councils give rise to mistrust in the authorities, causing considerable financial damage to the state, and unfortunately, they do not bear full responsibility until now. Individually, there is a need to address the fact that laws have been violated in providing land from the reserves and lands of the reserve fund. Currently, Ukraine has more than 5 million hectares of reserves and a reserve fund, which are not available for ownership and use. And that, with confidence, gives us the opportunity to say that, with a positive, I want to repeat once again, the relation of the regional authorities to the matter, all the citizens who will have the legal right to the land portion of the pie, will get land in some cases perhaps in some cases, unfortunately not in the farms where they worked, but there is an opportunity in full volume to resolve the issue. In many cases, however, local authorities in transferring these lands to legal and natural persons do not comply with the provisions of legislation on the size of the rent, reducing the rates of rent. This entails a significant underreliance on local budgets, which is the social protection of citizens and the development of the territorial community. Regarding the social protection of citizens, measures are being taken to provide social workers, including education, culture, and health workers, as well as pensioners living in rural areas of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster and by repatriated citizens living in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, who are entitled to free ownership of land from the stock and reserve funds. On March 1, 2003, more than 873,000 were reported. Citizens who have been transferred to property and have been provided to social workers living in rural areas with more than 842 thousand land for various purposes. It is owned and provided to over 84,000 citizens who have suffered the Chernobyl disaster and live in rural areas. In addition, these citizens, including 54,000 persons, have acquired the land share of the pies and have already received state acts. Of these, more than 7,000 citizens received State acts. With regard to the provision of land for repatriated citizens, over 77,000 Crimean Tatars or nearly 71 percent of the adult population received or formed a total area of over 178 thousand hectares. If, on January 1, 2002, the average land security of one repatriated member of the nation’s national parliament was about one hectare [1 ha] of agricultural land, it now stands at more than one hectare [60 ha]. In some areas of Crimea, however, the land security of Crimea Tatars is difficult. And the reason is there's no land. It consists primarily of an unevenly chaotic, self - centered settlement, as well as those violations of existing legislation that have been discussed earlier. A particular topic that can only be resolved by the Supreme Council, honourable national deputies, is the issue of land protection and compliance with the Ukrainian Land Pay Act on the purpose of using land taxes. Thus, a critical situation with regard to land protection has arisen in Ukraine. Land degradation, erosion, and technological pollution are advancing. Water and wind erosion yields over 15 million acres [15 million ha] of farmland. Or a third of the total area. The area of leased land increases by between 80 and 90,000 hectares annually. Ukraine’s annual land losses amount to about 600 million tons. The loss of agricultural production from erosion exceeds 9-12 million tons of grain units, and the total damage is now equal to, today, if combined with the 2003 annual budget. According to article 21 of the Ukrainian Land Pay Act, 30 per cent of land tax costs are needed for centralised land protection work, and this is worth over 540 million dollars should be centralised in a special budget account. At the same time, according to the Ukrainian Budget Code, in article 66, 69, the total cost of land payments is included in the general fund of local budgets that are not used for the purpose. And that's over 1 billion 800 million. It would be good if the Supreme Council of Ukraine put an end to the purposeless use of land payments. And I, honourable national MPs, ask for your support. The President of Ukraine's decree 134 of 17 February 2003 on measures to establish a single state-owned land registration system, real estate and rights in the form of a state-owned inventory, which is one of the necessary legal preconditions for the creation of a high-efficiency land registration system in Ukraine, other property and rights in Ukraine, without which it is impossible to create a climate for long-term loans, investment in our country. In the Land, work is being done on the creation of a cadastre registration system, including the adoption of a number of relevant normative and methodological instruments, the development of a system concept, the development and implementation of a standard of the national land inventory database, the development of maps indices and the allocation of cadastral numbers to all land areas, and the introduction of cadastral cases to all land areas without exception. Article 202 of the Ukrainian Code of Land introduces the introduction of a book on registration of government acts and leases, and this should be much better if our colleagues did not hold us back in that direction. The creation and implementation of the cadastre registration system in the State cadastre of the State cadastre of the State under the State Commission, as defined by Presidential Decree No. 134 of 17 February 2003, provides the primary means of avoiding the formation of a new organizational vertical of registration bodies that does not comply with the principles of administrative reform and has to do with the loss of time and considerable costs; to save costs and to significantly shorten the deadlines for the establishment and implementation of the inventory of the registration system; to prevent duplication of work and information. It should be noted that the problem of land registration and land rights is sometimes particularly important in agricultural areas, primarily related to the reform of the agricultural sector of the economy, the introduction of leased land relations and the further privatization of agricultural land. Without such a system, respected national MPs, the normal economic mechanisms of the land market are impossible. The work in this direction that is being done today is in line with European standards. Dear National Deputies! In order for the new Earth Code, as well as the President's decrees on land reform to fully reveal its positive potential, the necessary adoption of a series of Ukrainian laws that would contribute to the successful completion of land reform by 2006, as the current legislation does not fully reflect the current socio-economic orientation, the transformation of land relations and the need for substantial renewal. In order to address the issues that arise in the process of land and property reform, it is necessary to ensure that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopts the draft Ukrainian law as a matter of priority, namely the draft Law on the Order of Conduct in the Nature of Paid Particles and Their Exchange, Land Exchange, State Land cadastre, Land Protection and many other draft laws that are now in the Supreme Council. First of all. require the definition at the legislative level of mechanisms to ensure the integrity of land at the exit of rural owners of land from non-state agricultural enterprises, as well as the change of leases. Failure to resolve this issue can lead to further land use, strip-dipping, disruption of science-based zone harvests and other deficiencies in land-use management, resulting in soil depletion, erosion processes, and ultimately an increase in the cost of plant production. [[30 seconds, Volodymyr Mikhailovich]] . Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Let me stress that land reform in Ukraine is a complex multi-planned process, but we are confident that new land legislation will provide us with reliable support for a successful solution to the problems of high-civilised land reform. It is important now to consolidate our strength, act together in all branches of power, focus on restoring and securing the rights of citizens who have been violated. The policy of the state in this area must be geared towards improving land relations, creating an economic incentive mechanism for rational and efficient land use to reach Ukraine’s appropriate capacity to produce agricultural production, to increase export potential and to take a decent place in the world’s food markets. We will certainly take into account your comments regarding the removal of violations of the law. We are deeply convinced that we will move to a new level of economic development and that the country will become a highly developed state in the near future. The report is complete. Thank you for your attention. I am ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u5	I'm asking you to sign up for a question. And in writing, let's start with writing, Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u6	Can I have some water?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u7	Vodkas are possible. I'm asking you to give me a list of names on the board.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u8	All written?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u9	No, one in writing, one in the National Deputies directly. As long as you're looking, Oleg Belarus, please, your question. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u10	Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear reporter. Which village are you not going to, and you're meeting teachers, doctors, and the question is, Why doesn't the social sphere get land? And the strange thing is, in one village, they gave it, they didn't give it, they gave it back. How can this be in one state that calls itself legal and social? That's one question. The second question. State acts in the docking area have been paid. Three, four years from now, this money that collects acts on docking sites is not published, why is that? Who is responsible, and when will this end? And the third question. What is the status of the natural reserve in the Bukrine Trachtomirov region today, which we have talked about so much about in Parliament?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u11	Thank you for the questions raised. As a result of the President's decree issued in April 2000 to ensure the economic interests of social workers, there is currently work to be done and more than 580,000 hectares of land to be transferred directly to the use and ownership of social workers, I mean not only to teaching staff, but to health workers, to all those who create normal jobs in a given area. But the question stands in a different way than the active one, and how clearly the standards of this decree are being implemented, as I said. In this room today, representatives of the system of Derzkomze, heads of the main land administrations from all areas, are present. And I think it was in control, too, but it's got to be a subject of high-quality, high-quality, meaningful work and employees of our system, and above all self-government, executive heads. Not long ago, according to the Cabinet of Ministers regulations, a State Inspectorate for Land Use Control was established. That is the question, and we must control and implement fully, the President’s decree. As for state acts, I think this is a gross violation of, first of all, the constitutional rights of citizens and the violation of the law on citizens' recourse, unless, within a period of one month or another, an application is considered and there is no practical assistance given to one citizen or another. I mean, we have about a thousand entrepreneurial structures in Ukraine today that are preparing the same technical documentation, but today we see that this is not enough. Now, the status of that reserve that you're talking about, you say, in the literin zone. All I know is that these lands are state property. If you say that you need more specific, more substantive information, I, as head of the State Committee, am ready for this cooperation and will grant your wish and request in full volume. Thank you. I now turn to a written statement. Head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations: "What measures have the Government taken to implement the end-of-life provisions of the Ukrainian Code of Land, which were intended to address the issues of scientific institutions and educational institutions that could be passed on for other use, and perhaps passed on to the citizens, the employees of those institutions that work in them so far?" Based on the final provisions of the Land Code to determine the needs of scientific institutions and educational institutions in land areas for scientific research, the cultivation of elite seed, elite animals, the need for tribal livestock, the employees of the Statekomem system, together with the Academy of Agricultural Sciences, are now carrying out an inventory of the total amount of land that has to be dealt with in an agrarian academy, and that is a full inventory of land resources, and today we note that there are many issues that need to be dealt with in a clear, effective and yet effective manner, based on the law that should be applied in full volume, it is a bill for land payments. Because if you look at the same Crimean Republic, those big elite vineyards that are in such a state today that it takes an enormous amount of financial resources to preserve these acquisitions of scientific development. Which is necessary for today and for the future of our generations. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer the next question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u12	Next Alexy Kozachenko, People's Landing Group, please. Yes, there is, there is, there
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u13	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I signed up for the speech from the rostrum, not the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u14	I'm sorry. Mikola Petrovich Kruglov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear reporter, I'd like to get an answer to two questions. From your point of view, today's legal escort to Ukraine's land reform in rural areas is sufficient, do you think? That's the first question. And what do you think you need to do? And the second. Land tax provides for some of the funds to be spent on improving the fertility of the land. When we had one owner and one owner collected taxes, it was clear that it was possible, as we say, to regulate. When we have about 7 million owners today and there is a right to part of the land tax to improve land resources, do you not see the problem here that needs to be addressed by new legislation or by making changes?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u16	Thank you, Your Honor, Mikolo Petrovich. You've raised a whole cluster of issues that really deserve attention and increased work in that direction to solve them. First. Legal support for land reform. An analysis of the agricultural sector in rural areas, in large and small towns, shows the following: as we proceed with land reform, we need to be sharp, sorry to say that word, but this is how to raise the educational process, the educational work among the inhabitants of villages, populated areas, so that people know their legal legal rights, how to use how to manage how to turn to power. I think that this issue today needs attention from the side of the state and from the side of the workers of our system and it needs to be raised to a higher level. There's a lot of problems here. When does the Colosseum arise? When people do not fully know their rights. Next question. What, then, should we do with those lands that are now subject to wind and water erosion? I said the following in my speech. As a result of this land-paying law, more than $1 billion,800 million has been collected. I realize that these funds have solved many of the problems faced by governments, schools, gardens, and so forth. But I also said this: the accounts of scientists say this is a terrible figure that we are losing about 50 billion dollars a year by channelling these funds to another. Unfortunately, the Supreme Council has passed such a law that it says that these costs cannot be spent on land. I think when we adopt the 2004 budget, it's going to be number one priority. It's about the owners. We don't have 7 million in Ukraine today, that's about 7 million, the reverend Mikola Petrovich, the citizens, the owners who worked in the countryside and got the certificates. Today, more than 3 million people have received State acts. In view of the land’s agricultural assignment, we now have over 18 million people serving houses, tributes, gardens. And here's the task of self-government officials, executive authorities, working with the employees of our system to work out such a mechanism that each copy comes into the budget, state and local. In order to do so, it is necessary to continue to carry out a full - scale job, to conduct an inventory, and to conduct a monetary evaluation of large and small population locations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u17	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u18	In writing. Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster What laws and regulations govern the prices for obtaining a public act of private property rights to land? Dear National Deputies, the cost of making a public act of private property rights to land is determined by the collection: the size of the land-cadastral work and services approved by the joint order of the State, the Minfin and the Mineconomy. But if you look at it, and coming out of the President’s decree, which he clearly defined, there are no more than five taxed minimums or 85 bracelets for the preparation of technical documentation, the preparation of a public act, and the issuance of it. The language follows the land of the agricultural assignment when it is dispersed and the legal documents are issued accordingly. But unfortunately, the results of the verifications of the Crimean Autonomous Republic of Winnitz region in many areas have shown that those entrepreneurial structures that carry out the work in question are preparing technical documentation, preparing materials for the issuance of State acts, trying to depend on the cost of producing these works. As the head of the committee, I have been given appropriate instructions to all without exception to the heads of the executive branch, as well as to the head of the Rezcomem, to carry out a full-scale inventory of the entrepreneurial activities of these entrepreneurial structures that have been licensed to carry out these tasks and will then be determined accordingly, as this is not possible. The accounts of economists say the following. 85 bucks, I'm the one who's talking about agricultural land, giving it a full volume to do the job properly and have some correspondingly small profits. So if I take this opportunity, the honourable national deputies, there are such facts, please, in oral, written form, address me, to the employees of our system, I will only be grateful to you, because together we need to eradicate these flaws. Next question. Why in Kiev, for issuing a public act, does the right of private property to land pay tens of hundreds of times as much as in other cities of Ukraine for the same population, why? Ladies and gentlemen, in my speech, I said the following. That in the city of Kiev, Simferopol, Odessa, there was a communal land administration that began to operate in a closed regime today. But I think in establishing a state inspection, and today it's created, we're working together with the executive authorities, with the prosecutor's office, in cooperation with the self-government agencies, I think we're going to put the system in order here. I am ready to answer oral questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u19	Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, please ask the MPs more carefully to answer the questions. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich. Give a more concise answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u20	Thank you. Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear reporter! As you said, 20,000 agroforms are now in operation. At the same time, 2.1 million of our citizens were given land by the only array per group of landowners. So how many of these agroformings do they have today? Above all, what have you practically not said in your speech, what is the effectiveness of their use today, these lands? What was the significance of the so-called reform of the agro-industry complex over the total volume of agricultural production, I mean, at least in comparison to the last year of 1990, the so-called Soviet stalemate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u21	Thank you for the questions raised, and, thank God you've raised them, thank God. I want to say the next thing. We have no right to address the issue that we are considering today without the comprehensive approach to solving the issues that are facing the agricultural sector today. [[I'm sorry, Hennady Andriyovich, but the question is global, huge]] And so if I take this opportunity, I'd like to go to you and ask you, don't let God we won't continue to do a fixed tax this year, we have to make grants if we want our products to be competitive. And in this direction, to address the issue of the revitalization of land-forming and allow for long-term low-cost loans, investments. This is task number one. Now about the fragmentation of those agroformings, about those land arrays. I want to say that in most of these, more than 5 million landowners, land-pile owners, people have given up land plots, they want to rent rations, they want to get extra income from their land area to their family budget, and they want to be socially protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u22	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u23	And I told you the numbers. That's up to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u24	Letters.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u25	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Questions. Excuse me, please. National Deputy of Ukraine Solosenko Mikola Pavlovich "There is no procedure for re-establishment of land-particle leases, rations contracts, and the right and obligations of the renter and renter in obtaining a public act on private property rights to land instead of a land-pilla certificate." Dear Mikola Pavlovich, in accordance with the Presidential Decree of 3 December 1999, on urgent measures to accelerate the reform of the agricultural sector of the economy, the certificate of land ownership, pie is a legal instrument that testifies to the right to own, use and manage the specified portion, of its share. But when a citizen makes a decision and makes a decision, prepares technical documentation for the production of technical documentation and the receipt of a national act, there is a need for an end to the obligation of the parties and this is primarily provided for by a party’s treaty or by a court’s decision. So clearly, when we were passing on a portion, we had to rent it on a given term, and then the citizen got a government act, and when we defined the land in kind, we had to apply and continue the new lease on the land. Thank you. Ready to answer an oral question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u26	Please, Widowedenko Hennaday Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u27	Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, you have made a meaningful report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u29	Two questions. First question. In accordance with the President's decree of 99th, December of the month, the price set for the 85th anniversary certificate. But around that amount, there's already some extra cost, and the new decree sets out a much larger amount, we estimate it's 155 dollars. And here, perhaps, your committee is mostly engaged in rising, rising, significantly increasing prices. Our peasants are no longer able to endure such struggles on the part of the state. That's the first question. The second question is, it's not directly about you, it's about more about the Minister of Agriculture. We're in what state we're going out for the spring. Here I was in Herson, 60 percent of the winters died. Climate conditions do not contribute to the active management of agricultural work, as Ukraine will also cope with these very difficult effects of climate conditions. What can you say?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u30	Thank you. Gennady Josephovich, let me answer clearly as you asked. Not 85 bracelets, but 85 bracelets, including the introduction into the land registration system, to 85th. When it comes to producing technical documentation for other land areas, it is another matter. But clearly, if there are such facts, I will be grateful for your support if you give me such materials. Now, what's happening today in the agro-industry complex on integrated spring-field work. I know that you were the head of the household, and I think that you and many people as old as you don’t remember being killed in this amount of winter. And in my opinion, as an expert, as a citizen, I have a right to it, and I want to say the following, that it would be extremely true if the Supreme Council made a decision and said that from each budget, from each budget department, it would be 10-15 percent for the grant of a budget loan, then it would be bread and everyone would be fine. Thank you. But it has to be done yesterday and today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u31	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u32	That's a little bit different, I'm talking about the situation in the agrarian sector today. Head of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization. "Please name specifically in accordance with what legislation is being carried out in the State for the exchange of certificates for State acts to the right of private property to land. " I realized it was Valentina Petrovna. Yeah? Thank you, Valentina Petrovna. In accordance with Presidential Decree No. 720 of 8.08.95 of Ukraine on the order of leasing of land transferred to collective property, agricultural enterprises and organizations, the sixth article of which states that, in the event of the exit of the land-pivot owner from the collective agricultural enterprise, the agricultural cooperative, the agricultural stock society, on the basis of his application, the land in kind shall be disbursed in accordance with the President's decree of 3.12. 99 on urgent measures to accelerate the reform of the agricultural sector. Provision is made during 2000-2002 for the issuance, in the established order, of State acts on private property rights to land to all desiring holders of certificates for land-pia land-pia. The Earth Code, the methodological recommendations for the transfer of land-pium in kind, the land of collective property to members of collective agricultural enterprises, organizations approved by the Joint Order of the Statecombe, the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u33	Please, Frost Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u34	There is, Valentina Petrovna, and the second question is correct. Why is the Cabinet of Ministers asking such a question? Why the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine does not make proposals for a distinction between the forms of State acts that have been approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 13.03. 92? Why do we need different forms of "holdings" written like that? The poles. Well, maybe we made a mistake. Dear Valentina Petrovna, in Ukraine’s draft law to amend some of Ukraine’s legislative acts in connection with the adoption of Ukraine’s Earth Code, this issue should be really settled. The bill is under consideration in the Supreme Council, let's work faster, more actively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, I am so counting that there are no more written questions from factions, so let's just go to oral questions. Please, Alexander Alexandrovich. Just oral questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u36	Anatoly Stepanovich, Your Honor, I have a few questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u37	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u38	Please tell us when the use of different land rights in Ukraine will cease. There can be no parallel work of law and constitutional law, of law, and of orders that conflict with either laws or other legal instruments. I could refer to your order, which you signed on May 15, 2000, where it is already envisaged to buy land, etc. Then organize propaganda on the matter, etc. We made a statement in our own time on this point that you can't "run ahead of your father to hell," because today is the biggest disaster in the country, you know, when you meet people, pies, use of it, rights, etc. So your opinion on this point is, how much can you refer to the President's decrees that do not have the right under the Constitution to issue such decrees? All we have to do is be governed by the law, even by this forged Earth Code, but it's a legal document. And the second question. Many questions are asked today by those living in the village and intelligence and peasants, etc. You wrote down what propaganda needs to be done, etc., where you can read it, you can read it, you can read it, you can understand it, where it starts, how it protects itself, who you need to look to, etc.?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u39	Thank you, Your Honor Alexander Alexandrovich, for the questions raised. A different right, I think, here we have to conclude that in 1996 we adopted the Constitution of our State, which clearly prescribes the powers of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers and the President of our State. Therefore, in 1994-1995, the President adopted appropriate decrees based on his constitutional rights, on which appropriate reform was carried out in the agricultural sector of the economy. Today, there is a whole package of bills in the Supreme Council, Alexander Alexanderovich, in the development of Earth legislation, in the development of the Earth Code, I would very much ask you to be actively involved in this work. I'll be the first to thank you. I'm sorry, I'm not finished. About the purchase and sale of land, Alexandre Alexandrovich, you really raised the right questions, all the right questions the national MPs raise, but that question deserves special attention. The language, first of all, is that the Earth Code contains the first of January 2005 nor does it need to be sold. How to include land and economic circulation in order to obtain loans, investments, this is primarily about land of non-agricultural destination. Let's see how, in many cases, there's some kind of society in some other area, and then instead, this land area in the lease, and then it's privatized by going out of the land code without a penny. We know that. My position as Head of the State Committee, and we will stand on it, and I ask your support. Each land area has not yet been divided between state and municipal property in the settlements. And today, the whole country, except for private property, is publicly owned for auctions, open and only for sale. That'll be right. And the third question before printing, how we conduct our training, is how we explain our work among the inhabitants of our population. Unfortunately, today we have to note that it's not yet enough, but I want to say that I would like to present to all the people's deputies in a very short period of time, in order for this to happen to every citizen of our country, just a collection of questions and answers, which is over 600 of them. I think it'll be good support. I'll give you a present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u40	Masenko Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u41	Anatoly Stepanovich, as far as I know, before the reforms began, was all about finding an effective landowner. Do you think it is in the process of all the reforms found by such an effective owner or not? And the second question is very friendly, because I've known you since 1994: how could you today without such an exaltation, without a puffos, find out the facts of reform that are so distraught, how much it's been issued, how much it's been brought to the pen there, and so on, I wouldn't ask that question. But when you spoke on the elevator, that's the question. Do you now think that the country's reforms should have been carried out by that name? And you don't refuse, what is your involvement in this, all of these reforms? And so, if so, you and the other reformers would refuse to change with the position that those people who have received the land-based pie and the position that you personally have and the reformers who reformed the village are in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u42	Alexander Mikhailovich, thank you for your appreciation for my work. That's very impressive, thank you, my old friend. But essentially the questions you've raised. First. On the efficiency of land use. When I informed you, my national deputies, I said the following, that today more than 15 million acres [15 million ha] of agricultural land are subjected to degrading processes of windy, water erosion. As a result of the anthropogenic exertion, if you compare again, let's take England, France, Germany, so-so, the destruction of 18-23 percent. We've got about 60. And in some areas, it's much more. This is exactly what we are reaping today, Alexander Mikolaiovich, and I want to address you, may I? This is exactly what we reap from the “fruitful” work, in the coffeehouses. The other one. My position. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, when the issue of vetoing the President's decree on reform in the agrarian sector was raised in 1994, I, as head of the committee, stood up for a clear position that it was not necessary to do so. Sadly, though, the Supreme Council would have to do the following. We would then have to form a whole package of laws that would allow us to develop in a peaceful way today in a positive direction in the agrarian sphere of Bo without the support of the state, and this is the task of the Supreme Council, you determine, we will not be able to do the full amount of work that really needed to be done yesterday, not today. And you know the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u43	Please, Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear Anatoly Stepanovich! First. Let me not agree with one of the reasons why the Crimean Tatars cannot find the earth. You called the chaotic settlement of them on the Crimea. It's not like that. As far as I'm concerned, the Crimean Tatars don't evict themselves, they go back and try to get back to where they were evicted. I don’t know who, we call it love for our land and loyalty to our parents ’ graves. Now for the second one. You have to do the right thing, you really do, you go to places, you meet people, you study conflict situations directly. This is true in Crimea, and you are there very often. That's why, Anatoly Stepanovich, you couldn't help but notice not just the multiplication, but the cynical, outright distortion of land distribution. I simply remember calling the villages in the Krasnoggard region New Cover and Amursk, where former officials of the Bushkovsky and Kowalchuk kolgos have left many without land. There's a long way to go in these villages. And you know, that's how the DA and I handle things. I don't know when we'll be done. So I want to ask you, Your Honor Anatoly Stepanovich, and such villages, I think, in Ukraine, not only in Crimea, thousands, and until we've figured out in every situation why the executive authority and you personally, I respect you very much, Anatoly Stepanovich, through the Supreme Council you're drowning, you're in a hurry to sell land? Until we've dealt with the Crimean Tatars, with the teachers, with the Chernobyls. I'm sorry, I don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u45	Thank you. Thank you for the questions raised. You've only named a number of population points, and I could add a couple more tens in Crimean Autonomy, and I know them, and I know why there are collations in many cases, because sometimes in rural councils there are a few months or years of statements, they're not considered, and there's a lot of urgency in considering applications and making decisions and growing new ones. I think that this was the subject of such a harsh discussion at the extended meeting of the College on April 4, we agreed with the Prime Minister of the Crimean Autonomous Republic, Mr. Kunicin Sergey, to hold a joint meeting and, most importantly, to reach each village council and every person. And believe me, we're going to do it together in good cooperation, and we're going to do it. I can see these knots, and we can untie them. An example. Jankoi district. You know what happened there a year ago when we replaced Mr. Alexander's manager, the head of the administration, who was really actively, consciously, deliberately involved in this work, and today we have some kind of positive movement, and I think we're taking a lot more pictures there. Yes, almost every Saturday we have to be in Crimea or in the same area, but we simply have no right to do that. I understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u46	Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, dear colleagues, if we continue for 15 minutes, there is no objection. Please, Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u47	Anatoly Stepanovich, specific question. First. In accordance with the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of April 2, 2002, the number 449 approved new forms of the State Act. It's been a year since March 13, 92. So what forms of land acts do you use?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u48	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u49	That's the first question. And second, Anatoly Stepanovich, specifically call me a figure, give me a specific figure of how many land acts have been issued to the land of the individual sector, are meant to belong to areas and so on. And does this match the statistics Osaulenko gives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u50	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna. I'm answering your first question. According to the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, which has adopted a new form of state act forms, there are two forms: the first form is private property and the second. for legal and natural persons, and for the second form of the government form, it is a use that allows for the use of a land or land for land from state and municipal property for enterprises that operate in municipal and state property. Now, about the number of land plots that were issued -- I'm looking at where I have this booklet here -- the land plots that were issued to the citizens of the country for almost 30 seconds, Kostin Grigorovich will help me, give me a figure, I'll tell you later.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u51	Please, Anatoly Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u52	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich! Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian company. Dear Anatoly Stepanovich! [[I'm in front of you.]] I have three questions for you. After the revolutionary reforms that destroyed the continued development of the village, there was a situation in which the agile plots of aiding the peasant became the way of his deception. And my colleagues here have already raised questions about the legal provision of the village's problems. Don't you think it's imperative today to draft a bill on free legal aid to peasants? Because if we don't propose such a bill and there's no such bill, in the country, even if we offer a scheme of how people should act, they don't even have money for these certificates, they won't be able to protect themselves. That's the first one. The other one. For this reason, rural and rural councils, heads of rural and rural councils have been thrown out today, as in a "wolve logo," and we've thrown them in connection with this reform that they should have done. They do not all have computers today and so on. The other one. Do you really believe that no one in Ukraine today is ready to give up the land and property rations, as recorded here. And last of all, as you think, you have a structure under your control in the Hersonian area today has no room. How to get out of position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u53	Thank you. For the protection of landowners, shopkeepers, and their legal training. I think it's so relevant, I'm grateful that you're raising this question, and it would be good if such a bill were drafted, prepared, whether it's by the people's deputies, or by the State Commission at the hands of the Cabinet of Ministers, and another line in the budget is needed. It's very, very important. On ensuring that all issues are resolved before the heads of self - government bodies and the heads of village councils. Yeah, that's really a question. But when we analyzed and looked at the state of land inventory within populated areas, their monetary valuation, and how the land is being used, I can only name it as Winnitsky area, we've done the analysis. As a result of the cost of renting land, the reserves and reserves were 15, they received nine, and I counted another 30. And this is going to go to every pop-up, this is going to be an additional approach to solving a lot of problems in schools, kindergartens and so on. It's in a material and technical database. I can honestly say that it is very, very weak today, that we are working in rented premises today, including in the Hersonian region, and in many areas. But lately I've been feeling the support of the government, and I think that this issue should be addressed more actively, because scientific developments, technological, methodological, provision of specific assistance, the formation of a system of registration, which is essential, can no longer be cut and parallel. This is a priority task. I'm counting on your support here, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u54	Oleg Gumenjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u55	May I have the floor to the People's Deputy Tegnibok?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear Mr. Anatoly, there are a few questions about this problem that we are now raising. First question. Massively, people refuse to receive State aid because they are deprived of a variety of social assistance, such as assistance to the underprivileged, support for many children and so on. And as a result, there's this kind of conflict that on the one hand, you have to agitate people, people should get it, on the other hand, people get rid of a whole series of benefits, so it creates a whole bunch of problems. How can we resolve this situation? This is the first one. And the second. I've got a constituency. I represent four districts in the Lviv region, agrarian areas, Brody, Orodechi, Busk and Kamenka, and in fact in almost every village where I speak, there's the same question in people, and people ask me these questions: why in one village in the same area, the government fee is 20 dollars, in another village it's 30 dollars, and in another village it's 60 dollars, and in another 80. I mean, in Lviv County, there's been another kind of conflict that causes total social dissatisfaction. People, you know, they feel why I have to pay 80 and they have to pay twice as much in the neighboring village. Please tell me, how can we solve this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u57	Thank you for the questions raised. Problem number one, which you just sounded, raising the issue of social protection for those who own land, portions of pies, certificates in the next. And this is where the actual colossals arise when September, October, November, December, and landowners begin to receive and essentially in nature for renting their land, respectively, and then they get the sum. And the Tax Administration says the following, you have to make these calculations to the budget, and then at the end of the year, you have to make calculations, and then one day, you have to pay them back, according to these citizens, to the landowners. I think it would be a good idea if you, honourable MPs, put this issue under control and made the right decision, because you can't go on like this. This is a deterrent, I think, and a narrowing down of the constitutional rights of citizens. The second question. The calculations for the preparation of technical documentation and the issuance of State acts. I think that's where the head of the Lviv district administration sits, and today we're these entrepreneurial structures, and they're about a thousand entrepreneurial structures, they're actively starting to check, control, and I think we're going to bring you together. Valentina Petrovna! 11 million.400 thousand. Citizens who are entitled to land have already received government acts of some 3 million citizens, or more than 25 per cent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u58	Alexander Petrovich Baranowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u59	A faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, I'd like to make a point. The village of the Great Racha of the Radomishi district is located in the Gitomir region. And here's the thing: government acts made to get people land. These acts have been in the head of the administration for a few months, and he won't sign. I didn't want to sign because the head of the district council, there's a former head of the farm holding this farm today, as they say, and against people getting the right documents. Now this head of administration has been released, and the acts are not signed again. The responsibilities of signing them are not fully met. People in the village go, as they say, one corner to the other with the pitchforks. And the situation in the Gitomir region in general has become four areas without the heads of district administrations, that is, the old ones have been removed, no new ones have been appointed. And you know, I just want to say that things went better where they don't exist. So who's going to sign these acts? Is it appropriate that this is signed by the head of the administration rather than by local authorities? And how can we get out of this situation? Spring in the field, in the streets of spring, and people cannot sow or plant anything, nor can they get land, which they had promised by decree. So it turns out that you don't do the laws, and you don't do the decrees. How, then, can we live?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u60	Thank you. I'd like to divide your question into two pieces. First. In this village, exactly as you said. I know that you are quite active in your constituency in the territory of the Zitomir region. I think it's going to be a positive response because we're having a big meeting on Tuesday to verify that there's been a violation of existing legislation in the Zitomir region. And I'm going to be there to take an active part in this work on Tuesday in the Zitomir region, and I actually think that this is going to be a positive, immediate reaction, if that's such a fact. For however good things may be, there may not have been such a question in the Supreme Council today. Today, we are examining the situation, weighing the situation, uniting our efforts, correcting the situation, and all the more actively addressing these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u61	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u62	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Mr. Head, I have three short questions. The first question was you were giving data on the destructiveness of agricultural land. And according to data issued by the Prime Minister, on average, 78 in Ukraine and 90 percent in a number of regions. You also suggested that the destruction of the earth was 600 million tons of annual land losses. That is, we destroy what has been given to us by the Lord God and leave nothing to the coming generation. What's going on in this plan, well, to make sense of it, it's not easy to tear apart, to share what's being done and to destroy what's being done by the President's decrees, then it's broken down, the colgs, the rasps, everything else. What is being done to preserve this? You don't need a lot of intelligence here. That's the first question. And the second question. It's small, too. Now, again, errors are made in the distribution of pies, but the cost of land or the economic assessment of land is the basis. And you know that now they're replacing the certificates, you're saying that on average 47 percent. In Gitomir district 13, in Odessa 24 percent. That's what happens. The Cherkas region is about 30 years old. I'm asking you if there's anything we can do to level the situation and make sure that growth rates are somehow more or less normal across Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u63	Your Honor, you can't ask questions that long. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u64	Excuse me. Dear Mr. Yuri, let me answer the question raised. First. Today, in the work of the Land System of the State Commission, the issue of land conservation comes first. And today we've developed, we've developed, we've developed scientific approaches, we've developed rules for removing degraded land, and in many cases, we've tended to have more than 7 percent destroyed, we've removed it from active traffic. And they need to be done, huh? Earnings, snuggles. But above all, it will be when we fully apply the Land Pay Act, and it will go to the protection and conservation of land resources. What's the situation with the issuing of state acts? As you said, in the Zitomir region, that's 13 percent, in Kirovograd - 96, in Cherkaskie - more than 30 percent. We can see that. And so, based on the little funding that is budgeted for land reform, and speaking out, the people's deputies said that the financial situation is not the same for the citizens of our state, which makes it possible to do this work at full cost, if there was better funding, I think it would be possible to fix the matter more actively. But there are also positions of executive heads and self - government bodies. In many cases, programmes are properly adopted, approved by the Regional Councils on Financing, and specific assistance in addressing these issues that you have just raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u65	Mikola Eutycheiovich Melnik
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u66	I will be speaking from this question, so I would like to convey the word to John Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u67	Ivan Boki's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u68	Thank you, Mikola Eutychyevich. Anatoly Sergiyovich, last night we had a whole delegation from the Novo Vorontsov region of Herson. They actually gave a typical picture, not just in the Herson area, we know that, but especially in that Vorontsov region, this is a situation where people don't want to receive these acts of state for one simple reason, because they were given before, and it was legal for the certificate, 5.2 hectares of land, now 3.8 hectares of land. In the meantime, they know very well that, let’s say, there was a partition there for the benefit of either the medics or what, or the teachers had nothing to do with it. What it's all about, as they say, under the patronage of the head of the district administration, is the head of the head of the farm, I've just forgotten his name, but it's a typical painting, and you know it. Please tell me, how is your service going to fix such things?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u69	Thank you. I'm Stepanovich, not Sergeiovich. About 3.8, 5.2. On the basis of the legal valuation of agricultural land, which was approved, this methodology, the decision, the 1992 Cabinet of Ministers decree, in 1995, excuse me, and when citizens, following the President's decree of 94-95 years, received certificates where the conditional portion was determined, pie. It's expressed in monetary terms. And it's still in the process of getting state acts, of demarcating the land in kind, it's only in monetary terms for all the members of that group that it was. But in nature it's different depending on the quality of the land, the location, but here I'm looking at 3.8 and 5.2 is a big difference. I think, given that you've raised this question, we're going to run a background check on these cases and give you a concrete answer, and I think we're going to give practical help to those people who have addressed you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u70	Mikola Fedorovich Krutz. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u71	Please pass the word to Tegniboku Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u72	Turn it on, please. Thank you. Actually, I'd like to give you a line on your performance. So you said that this year, according to your information, actually a large part of the crop, I understand that because of the weather -- the winter -- I'm sorry, I'm not producing, but the winters because of the weather were destroyed. But I do have this kind of information, and let's say there were some complaints that maybe it was intentionally some of the heads of the farms supporting the heads of the district administrations that forged the indicators to then demand compensation from the state budget. Maybe the old, "good" lamps in the Soviet times you mentioned might have been more control than they are now in the current complete chaos, maybe that's why they're so high in the destruction of those things.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u73	Thank you. That's the question, I understand you're addressing me as head of the committee and as the Ministry of Agrarian Politics and as the prosecutor's office. But I want to give an example in my own village. Vladimir Antonovich Pletinsky said that I lived in Kiev while I was sitting on a committee of the Supreme Council, Alexander Alexandrovich knows where I live. My native village, which has 6,000 hectares [6,000 ha] of land, lost 100 percent of a thousand acres [1,000 ha] of wheat. And especially in the spring, when the frost went down, the wind was 6 or 7 degrees, it was, unfortunately, a bitter truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u74	Please, Odajnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u75	Anatoly Stepanovich! We know that the decomposition of the land that was in collective ownership is now almost over, and that's what you're talking about. Today, the corruption of the land of state ownership is being done. Many mistakes have been made in disposing of collective property. Please tell us what is being done today in order not to allow the same mistakes to be made in decomposing state property.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u76	Thank you, Mr. Mikolo. First of all, if there were managers like you in that household, the results would be better, for everything depends on the person who led the business. But the analysis is deep, and the analysis is deep enough. Unfortunately, in 1994, 1995 science did not provide well-founded recommendations for the removal of land for active trade, for the disposal of land and forging, and today we have a lot of problems because the land is already plentiful, how to get it out, how to find funding, how to provide landowners with a land return, whether in money or in natural terms. I think we should go specifically back to the land pay law. The answer to that law will provide an opportunity to resolve many and many of the problems facing land protection today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u77	Time's up. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u78	Thank you, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u79	The word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Tomic Ivan Fedorovich. Please, Ivan Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished members of the government, national deputies, guests! For more than ten years, land reform has been under way in the country, with the main task of forming a land relationship structure that meets the realities and needs of the Ukrainian people. Much has been done during this period. With the adoption and entry into force of the new Ukrainian Land Code on January 1, 2002, an important legislative divide in land reform has been overcome. As a result of further improvements in land legislation arising out of the Earth Code, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, together with the government, is working on the adoption of legislative acts necessary to ensure the implementation of the provisions of the Earth Code. Already adopted by the Supreme Council in its first reading of the laws on land, on State control over land use and protection, on the delimitation of state and municipal property, on how to allocate land in kind to landowners of land-pile plots aimed at resolving the entire set of issues that peasants are dealing with today. The ground reform was based on the Ukrainian RSR Supreme Council decision of December 18, 1990 on land reform. It has been decided that citizens, businesses, institutions and organizations with land use should form property rights or land use rights by March 15, 94. It should be noted that the task was not carried out sufficiently by all governments. In this connection, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed that term three times, finally extended it until January 1, 2004, but it is also not realistic. With the introduction of private and collective land ownership in the country, new conditions for reforming land relations have emerged. A decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 13, 92, approved new forms of form, acts of ownership and use of land. However, it should be noted that many shortcomings and failures have been made as a result of the hasty organized work on the issue of State acts on collective property rights to the land. In particular, work on the transfer of land to collective property was done in most cases on outdated planocartographic material, resulting in the loss of existing land use limits and the composition of the arrangement did not always correspond to reality. In some areas: Kyivska, Žitomirska, Poltavska, Hmelnicka; government acts did not include lists of coowners of collective property; and when the issue of land burning arose, a problem arose with their clarification. And this is going on in many areas and so far. With the introduction of a collective form of land ownership, most of the lands that had previously been used by cooperatives, councils, were transferred to collective agricultural enterprises, stock companies, and agricultural cooperatives to collective property. At the same time, significant areas remained in state property to which State acts were to be laid down and issued on the right to use the land on a permanent basis. Yet, it has not been done, and we now have vast areas of land under forests, swamps, sovereigns, which are nothing at all. The next major step was to plough up land transferred to collective property. These works were carried out in accordance with the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of August 8, 1995, on the order of land burning, passed on to agricultural enterprises and organizations. As a result, more than 6.7 million certificates were issued for land. Each certificate showed cadastre and valuable land particles; they were objects of sale, donation, inheritance and collateral. Since 1996, the monetary valuation of land has been indexed six times and increased several times. These certificate changes have not been submitted. In many cases, therefore, rents did not change for every particular period. At a low level in the regions, work has been done to ensure the fulfilment of the terms and conditions of land leases, its arrangement, the timely use of land leases, which violates the requirements of the Land Rental Act and the President's decree on urgent measures to accelerate the reform of the agricultural sector of the economy. Complaints coming to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Committee indicate a lack of work at the site. This is particularly true of the agroformings of Sumskie, Dnipropetrovsk, Zaporzik, Kirovgrad, Herson, and other areas. On 18 January 2001, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Law on Contracts on Land Disposal, which temporarily prohibits the sale and donation of land. Or alienation, as well as any other way, except for an inheritance or a ransom for public and public purposes. There's been a conflict. Because the requirements of this law have not changed the certificates. So in a number of cases, land particles continue to be alienated under intended circumstances, change, implementation of preformed documents, and so forth. In accordance with Ukraine’s new Earth Code, the Cabinet of Ministers approved new forms of state-owned land ownership in April of last year. Despite the fact that a year has passed since the adoption of new forms of State acts. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has not made any proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reverse the forms of existing State acts adopted in 1992, as discussed today. That's how the state came to be. This question, when there is no clear definition, what form of State acts is real today? In many cases, the lands transferred to collective property are ignored by the pre-developed contour-militorial organization of areas where more than 5 million hectares of degraded and low-productive land have been dissipated, which have now been transferred to the private property of citizens and issued into the relevant state acts. Similarly, the introduction of these lands from intensive processing is difficult to obtain without a ransom, since these lands are already privately owned. There are also many violations and inadequacies that have been made during the summering on the meliorated land. As a result, some meliorate systems, such as the Hersonic, Mikolaiivsky, Odessa, and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, have been exploited. There is no better situation with many years of planting. An example may be the unwarranted write-off of active irrigation systems over 90 acres [90 ha] in the village of Uržajny Borislav in the region of Herson in 2002, where land, including privatized land, was overrun, giving rise to fair complaints by citizens. Even after the intervention of the Attorney General’s Office in Ukraine, the local executive authorities did not remove the violations. It is worth noting that many mistakes have been made in the land reform of the reserve and the reserve fund. Instead of handing these lands over to teachers, medical workers, and other social workers in the countryside, as well as to displaced citizens from the Chernobyl area, the Crimean Tatars, these lands were often embalmed. The issue of giving the land to these categories of citizens today is often again before the Supreme Council. Ukraine did not have the necessary control over the circulation of certificates for the land share of pies, although a state registration for the transfer of rights to others had been established. In some regions this requirement has not been met and has been the case for the acquisition of certificates even by nationals of other countries. In 1999-2000 more than 500,000 land certificates were sold at a value much lower than the certificate provided. For example, in Crimea, land certificates were passed from 100,000 to 200,000 dollars, with an average monetary valuation of about 60,000 certificates, taking into account the index ratio. In the Luhansk region, between 100 and 1,000, at an average price of more than 50,000 dollars. In such cases, individual plots were simply ridiculed by peasants, and our supervisory authorities were then deciding with others their own tasks: forming on themselves and on their own farms, on an urgent basis. Soils, in nature, were purchased for priceless land. A peasant, in order to buy another neighbor's pie, has to make 100 years' rent, and a commercial bank, at existing bank rates for three or four years, can clean up this kind of pie in its own hands. It is worth stressing the significant increase in the value of doing landwork, which consists solely of registering government acts from 36 to 172 bracelets, and sometimes more than an act, they become insurmountable for our peasant. In view of this situation, the work of producing State acts has been halted in many areas. In order to reduce the cost of work for speeding up the process on October 31, 2001, a memorandum was signed between the government of Ukraine and the United States of America on cooperation in the issue of land-particles to farmers, state-owned land rights acts. On the basis of this memorandum, Ukraine has been provided with $14 million on a non-refundable basis to finance the process of issuing state acts. Nearly 2 million Ukrainian peasants are free of charge for this money. It is also worth noting that the Ukrainian government is negotiating with the World Bank a loan of up to 200 million dollars to the Ukrainian side for the issuance of state acts to peasants and for the establishment of a registration system for land registration. So the cost of creating an automated database, running a state land cadastre, is in the loan budget. Thus, in view of the difficult material situation of the rural population, it is unacceptable to draw such funds from peasants today. According to the test materials, work on issuing State acts in exchange for land certificates in the regions has a number of shortcomings, the main of which are the following. First. In the development of land distribution schemes for former collective agricultural enterprises, the physical size of the plots of the respective plots of land is based on the monetary valuation of agricultural land in the year 95, which is based on outdated land economic valuation materials in the year 88. This data is not adequately taken into account, as are the characteristics of mountain and field areas, as well as soil bonding materials, which result in an unobjective determination of the size of land that causes social tension among citizens. It doesn't take into account the contiguous melio-miliorization of areas that were previously created in slope agro-landscapes. Third. When land is formed, degraded and low-productive agricultural land quality conditions are not allocated to areas of land in common with a view to taking them away and transferring them to conservation. Four. The issue of land ownership of former collective property, which has not been cultivated, but also does not belong to land of general use, primarily ponds, forests, forests, farmyards, and so forth. Fifth. When geodetics are performed in the local coordinate system, the geodetic network is usually unattended and carried out under conditions not defined in the nature of the former CCPs. Six. No restrictions on the use of land transferred to private property are defined or taken into account. It has been quite negative that land reform is not accompanied by a complex of work with the State government as the main instrument for state administration, regulation and implementation of agrarian reform and measures for rational use and protection of soil. Special attention is needed to predict and plan the development of rural areas. Because the land in agricultural production is a major means of production. Land relations need to be addressed in a complex with economic and social, as the cost of land depends directly on the state and level of development and profitability of economic activity. So we need to put an end to jobs that are of only earthly character and serve the individual needs of land reform, and we need to move on to broad action, as required by chapter 31 of the earth’s system, the Codex earth. The approval in the village of economic relations that would ensure the formation of a peasant owner who would be able to provide a decent life not only for himself but also for all Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u81	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The word for replication is given to Mr. Alexander Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u82	I had a replica of Anatoly Stepanovich. He could see that he had been a longtime deputy, so he knew how to get around the matter without saying anything. I asked a specific question about why the order was issued on the basis of a Presidential decree, which in itself is not constitutional. He applied for decrees in 1994, 1995, and his order, Danilenko, signed, refers to January 13-19 of 1999 and February 4, 2000 on the land market. And these decrees are not constitutional because the President on economic issues and property issues is no longer entitled to issue decrees. So the problem is serious in Ukraine today, there are two areas of law -- both explicit and constitutional. There will be no meaning until everyone adheres to the Constitution and the laws. And in land relations in particular, because this is the most difficult issue in Ukraine today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u83	Let's go to the discussion. Let's say Kozachenko. Please, Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u84	The honourable Chief, honourable colleagues, honourable members of the government, the reform of the country's relations in Ukraine, which began in 91st year, has reached the depth at which changes in these relations have become irreversible. However, the end goal of economically efficient and economically safe land use in Ukraine has not yet been achieved. In Ukraine, there is a massive process of issuing State acts on the right to private ownership of agricultural land and the removal of land in kind. According to recent reports, of nearly seven million citizens who have acquired land rights, only a little over three million people have received government acts, and of these, there are significantly fewer lands in nature. At the development stage, there are approximately 1.7 million people with different terms. State acts. These figures show that there are two different types of law - establishing documents in the area of land relations today that demonstrate ownership, use, and administration of land. This is a certificate of the right to land and a state act on the right of state ownership to land. This situation has led to a de facto slowdown of market transformations in Ukraine and requires an immediate improvement of the legal and regulatory framework, which would properly ensure the acceleration of land reform. So it's obvious that it's necessary to activate the process of issuing state acts. One factor that can accelerate this process is the speediest adoption of a whole series of bills and, above all, the adoption of a second reading and the whole Ukrainian law on how to allocate land to land-pile owners, where a clear mechanism for land distribution is foreseen, minimized the possibility of unfair and ineffective distribution of land between owners within the respective land-uses. But the main brake in the process of obtaining state acts is the lack of money in peasants to pay for the services they provide. In fact, such a situation has occurred today when payment for the issue of holdholds is paid by a tenant, that is, a particular manufacturer who still has problems. According to the State Commission, 313 million,478 grivens, which are now in the development phase, are needed at the same rate as the State Commission, at 313 million,478 grivens, which is about 180 grivens per hold. Taking into account the social significance of land reform, the President, by his decree, restricted 85 bracelets to payment for the production of land. Thus, in fact, he undertook, in particular, to carry out a list of existing work at that time related to the issuance of holdholds at a rate of almost half the size of the tariff. The president was absolutely right about his actions, but in the area of manufacturing holdings, there was a situation of some underfunding at the time. There are many cases where actual performers have been forced to raise actual prices for services from the supply of holdings for economic reasons. Today, the average actual payment for the issuance of holdings in the market is over 110 dollars, and this, I stress, is only the execution of the necessary procedures that were in place at the time the President's decree was issued. The situation with the value of detainment services has deteriorated significantly with the outcome of Order No. 23 of the State Committee, of August 1, 2002, which approved the new temporary order for the formation and introduction of the State’s land cadastre, with its entry into force on September 1, 2002. In fact, this meant establishing an order of formation and the introduction of an automatic system base, the introduction of a national land cadastre, and the order of work related to the transfer, acceptance, verification of land and cadastral data on magnetic media. This also established the order for the issue of holdholds only after the previous verification of land and cadastral data on magnetic media. It would seem that it might be negative really in a progressive, even late, but there's one "but." Decree No. 23 established another form of state-paid services, registration of land-based documents and leases. The cost of such a service, according to the appendix to this instruction, is $36. For one act of state. I want to emphasize once again, I think the basic idea of this document is progressive and timely. And he even suggested that the leadership of the State Commission raise the fees for the appropriate services for the development of an electronic base in the drafting of legal instruments in a number of cases where this would be socially justified. But this is definitely not to be done when it comes to issuing government acts to peasants. To date, we actually have a contradiction between the demands of the State Commission to speed up land reform, the President's demands that 85 fines should not be exceeded for issuing State acts and the price or rather the tariff policy of the State Commission. After the introduction of a new payment service, as if he had done wrong in his order number 35 of February 19, 2003, which included this new 36 - year - old service. I'm asking you for 30 more seconds, it's supposed to be 85 bucks. The actual price for issuing a government act this year will increase by the same 36 dollars. Why I'm saying this year, because the following year, the President, by his decree, paid for this service to the expense of the State Budget in 2004. It seems that the President has only something to do to correct the inadequacies of the State Commission. Ivan Grigorovich, I'm addressing you first, I'm addressing you Anatoly Stepanovich, and you're finally dealing with this problem. I won't say the village is dying, but it's moaning. In closing, I'd like to add the figure again. Thirty-six dollars multiplied by about three million unpaid and unscathed government acts amount to nearly 110 million dollars. The figure is adequate for this year's budget to compensate the credit rates for the sole producer, in my opinion, of the grant article of the State Budget, which feels almost everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u85	The word is given to Matthew Vasil Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u86	Well, let's finish one sentence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u87	Stick to the time limit. You take time from your colleagues, or you can't understand that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u88	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear colleagues, the reform of the agricultural sector began three years ago and is currently in an active phase in the formation of new owners. Land reform involves everyone, starting with various agricultural associations and farms, and ending with the highest public authorities. There are positive examples that we have heard from the report, but unfortunately there are negative ones. The creation of new agricultural enterprises, based on most of their collapsed colossus and SCPs, has not always been accompanied and accompanied by legal methods and leaves unresolved a number of property problems. Sometimes there's a situation where everyone's in command and no one's in charge. As a result, the technique is strung up and dispersed, the livestock is killed, and the crop is falling. The industry's coming down. The dispersion occurs, and the dispersion raises questions. The figure of 25 per cent of the work done is for itself. This state of incompleteness has to this day and requires a long period of time to resolve property problems. There's not much time left, though. The transitional provisions of the Land Code imply that owners will have the right to sell their land freely as from 1 January 2005. In this regard, many challenges arise again, and we will not be able to avoid an acute social conflict situation. First of all, the issue will be addressed by current land users. In this way, land rations have been actively introduced in the last three years under the relevant contracts. You can honestly say that tenants are different. Timekeepers also come and try to get as much out of the earth as they can and get away. But there are also serious hosts with public views who come to earth seriously and for long. It's like the same combination of Ilicha, the "Assistant" mine and a number of others. Most of their tenants had received land for long-term use for several years. There was a considerable cost of restoring their fertility and returning to the countryside. Having invested considerable resources and resources in cultivation, land recuperation, acquisition of new equipment, construction of buildings, restoration of rural infrastructure and such tenants with effect from 1 January 2005 will be entitled to sell land at a broken trough. The treaties, most of which have been concluded for long periods, are automatically dissolved and there is no guarantee that those who now invest all their energies and resources in their own household can re-engage the land ransom contract because landowners have the right to rule the land. In view of the investments made in land, the land would cost several orders more than the land on which the work was not carried out. That is, tenants will still have to pay for improving the land today. Who will then invest in improving the soil’s fertility? In doing so, we give birth to the arrival of the timers and the Hugs, whose purpose is to capture today, to remove and to leave. In order to avoid this, we need to adopt legislation today on the concept of inseparable improvements to the leased land that will be taken into account in the redemption of land. In order to stabilize this work, we need to resolve the very important issue of land rent. We must now clearly, clearly, once and for all say that land leases are regulated by legislation, the relationship of the two entities, the lessor and the lessee, and no decrees in this regard are in force. The second major problem is that land market legislation is limited. To date, we have not been brought to work by the Land Market Act, a monetary valuation of land, on land rent. But these laws must not only be on paper, they must be worked to date and tested. Because if we don't test them today, you can imagine how much we're going to have with them. But even if we assume that we will do everything that we have done and introduce all the legislation we have, we have a very large number of questions, either freely or reluctantly, which also call into question the introduction of the Land Code in its entirety as of 1 January 2005. One reason is the land of industrial enterprises. Today they have gone to the fore. But believe me, it's no less a problem than it is with farmland. For example, the Ilic metal combination is only industrially used for permanent and temporary use of about 2,000 hectares of land. It will take quite a long time to transform property rights, and the estimated value of the land under existing legislation will require more than 2 billion bracelets. Think about that figure. The procedure for processing is enormous and what amounts. The question is, let's think about it, it's all metallurgical enterprises, machine-building complexes, a. stores with their dumps that are now available. When we've gone from scratch and distributed the land to the peasants, let's probably think about the industrialists. Why are industrial enterprises privatized, for which the State has received the money that has been available on this land for a hundred years, obliged to pay for the land on what basis? And a number of huge questions. I'm done. Thus, without careful preparation and development of a comprehensive system of regulatory issues without certain clear mechanisms for the introduction of the transitional provisions of section 10 of the Earth Code as of 1 January 2005 is premature. Here, we need to move away from politics and make a balanced economic decision so that we do not break more wood than we have already broken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u89	Puzakov Volodymyr Tikhovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u90	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština In December 99th, the President of Ukraine, by his Decree on Urgent Measures to Accelerate the Reform of the Agrarian Sector of Economy, decided to reform collective agriculture on the grounds of private ownership of land and property. According to this decree, the right to land was given to members of the CSOs, pensioners who worked in these farms and who were numbered for the farm. Sadly, though, it seems that many pensioners have been missed by mistake in the lists for obtaining their own rations. There are many cases where peasants have not received pies simply because of lack of care or because of the legal unpreparedness of the smoking committees. The reform of the agricultural sector of the economy has given birth to and continues to generate related hot spots in those villages where the interests of land - and - collective property - are similar. Businessmen, investors, co-founders of new agroforms, tenants seek to deceive peasants in various ways, to clean up the hands acquired by generations of farmers. Of course, prolonged conflicts arise, peasants try to protect their rights and property, but unfortunately they do not do so much. Such a situation has taken place today in the village of Subitsa, in the area where it is simply not possible to work under the conditions of terror committed by the district and by the nobility of the district government. Despite a number of measures taken by the Ubizzi SP government, congregations of all owners of the property, where the property structure is approved, have created five property complexes that enable the integrity of the farm complex to be maintained. But according to the efforts of Mr. Grievek, the deputy head of the district administration, today this farm is being slaughtered lively, violating the legitimate reform of the agrarian sector regarding the issue of state acts on private property rights. Today, there are many examples in the area where district and district officials abuse the position of service to their relatives, and acquaintances form spare lands, carrying out various kinds of machinations. In the Malovishkovsky region, for example, the village of Paliyevka, ignoring legislation illegally from the lands of the reserve fund, gave the land rations to 51 people. He also made fictitious land leases to citizens who do not live in the village at all. There are a number of examples in the area where many of the assets that used to be KSPs were stretched out and sold for no price, and this also emptied the property of the pies. This was the case in the villages of Sokolovsk and Ajamka in the Kirovograd region. In the village of Ivanovka of the Novo-Ukrainian Region and many other areas where illegal activities of the heads of the agricultural sector were brought to bankruptcy. As a result, peasants lost most of the best collective property, resulting in the property of peasants, if you will, in the hands of bandits. There are cases where local authorities illegally reduce the size of the soil for which the certificate was issued. This has been observed particularly in the region of Golovanowski, Heivoronsky, Novomiryvsky, Kirovograd, and we can conclude from these examples that agrarian reform has been carried out in a hasty manner and has not been prepared legally or morally. The villagers were not ready for it, most of them did not know how to reform their farms. Why this is done and why the entire estate complexes were destroyed. In many cases, however, former farm managers, agrobusiness parcels, and authorities throughout the entire vertical top - to - bottom structure benefited from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u91	Thank you. Stepan Bogdanovich Gavrish. Next Borzih.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, two previous remarks that are related to the fact that today we are considering the key issue of agrarian reform, since the creation of landowners, the implementation of land reform in Ukraine is a decisive step in the historic development of the Ukrainian state itself. And it is clear how the challenge for all of us, when only 20 national deputies are present in this room right now, is to argue who should be on the rostrum and who isn't. Second remark. Perhaps there should be, first of all, those who expect us to reform the land, first of all peasants, farmers, and heads of administration, heads of local governments, because today the biggest problem is the lack of real information. Perhaps the political forces that struggle most for their sign votes during the electoral campaign should be sitting in this room today and having a heated argument. And we should not forget that we can continue today and continue our conflict, which has been taking place for many years, whether we are the owner of this earth or not? Clearly, the success of Ukrainian democracy as a whole will also depend on it. Why? Because the earth has the same feelings as its own child, the earth is the worst and deepest pain of the Ukrainians and its happiness at the same time. And it's no coincidence that in the Paris Chamber of Measurements and Weights, the Ukrainian Black Land is stored as a standard of soil, the land where the Ukrainians walk is worth about 300 trillion, and I want to repeat that figure again -- 300 trillion dollars or 38 years of our state's budget. Part of the country’s productive resources is 40 percent. With a rational land use structure, Ukraine is capable of producing food for 150 million people. Europeans and members of the entire world community, three times as many as they are now. At the same time, the problem of reform has two features. The first is that this reform is not actually secured by legislation, there is no single legislative policy, so there is no single legislative system that will ultimately resolve this issue, and today this has been discussed in the session room. Secondly, its success depends on the local authorities. That's why it's going on very unevenly, just to say that 96 percent of the government's actions on land are being issued in Kirovgrad and only 13 in the Gitomir region, that's the problem of government. At the moment, the government promises to complete the issue of State acts on land by 2006, while at the end of last year, the State Commission planned to do so in the first half of the fourth year. But since 2005, I have been stressing, dear fellows, that agricultural land will become a commodity if the heads of the local councils are selling the areas that have been certified by the land certificate now, it will be a little easier to do so since 2005. And at that time, land rights are about 1 million. The peasants will remain an unprotected state. Now there are peasants who cannot be reinstated in legal rights to the earth because the areas have been torn apart. Ukrainian agrarian reform takes place according to the classic formula: "Step forward and two back." There are numerous violations, we know them. The government says it's 165 grand. thousands of citizens were wrongly denied ownership of land. More than 5,000, she got here illegally. At the same time, the government reports about 100 government officials drawn to administrative responsibility and isolated cases of criminal prosecution. According to the Minagropolitics, I quote, "30 per cent of households have seen the change in organizational legal reform replace careless leaders with more responsible, more proactive. That is, 70 percent of the careless leaders remained in their seats. The government gives data on 94,000 certificates that changed owners under donations contracts, in fact, most of them were sold for $100-150, dozens of times cheaper at a real price. It is a complete information failure of land reform, a lack of understanding among peasants of all the benefits and opportunities of land ownership. This is extremely advantageous for new facilities, for those who have now acquired a thousand hectares of the most fertile land. Earth reform is a priority for agriculture and the economy, without it, losing any measure of lending to the village or regulating the market. Therefore, the delay in issuing State acts to land by 2006 is tantamount to a collapse. Dear colleagues, to create an efficient agricultural sector requires two things, the right to private property to land and the mechanism for the realization of this right. In order for both governments and parliament to be created, the only legislative position must be demonstrated, for today the only document regulating land allocation is the Methodical Recommendations, note, in 1996. The laws on this subject are adopted only in the first reading. And three whales based on market land relations: land assessment laws, land administrations, mortgages. Their timely adoption should be the final chord of agricultural reform. You should. the creation of advisory services. We need to create a whole series of legislative tools right now. And this question is also the responsibility of the Supreme Council in a joint position with the government. Dear colleagues, I believe that Ukraine is effectively and carefully using its greatest wealth, and I believe in the wisdom of Ukrainian peasants and Ukrainian politicians, because it is Ukrainian politicians who take the primary responsibility for the success of agricultural reform in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u93	Alexander Ivanovich Borzih.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u94	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs, members of the government and invited. We, members of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party, have come from the fact that agrarian transformations in the countryside have provided some positive shifts in the agro-industry complex, including the creation of a new legal framework for land relations. For most villagers, however, they remain insensitive for the time being. This is primarily due to serious violations of existing land laws that have been introduced in the reform process, as evidenced by both the verification material and the numerous complaints made by peasants. First of all, this refers to the mechanism for determining the number of people who were entitled to the land portion of the pies, the simplification of the landwork procedure in ploughing the land. It can be said that the social workers of the village have been overlooked. There are problems in providing land for displaced citizens from the Chernobyl area, the Crimean Tatars, and workers who worked for many years in agriculture but had to leave the country for objective reasons before watering. Or let's take another painful question: the allocation of land particles in kind. There was a massive breach of legislation. As a rule, the production of food in nature takes place without taking into account the ecological conditions of soils, their suitability for agricultural production. Worse yet, the lists of farmers who are entitled to land may not always be clarified. In individual farms, land for members of one family is divided into different locations. First of all, it creates difficulties in the work of the earth, and second of all, it complicates the process of passing the pie into an inheritance and in exchange for which each owner is entitled. It also requires urgent settlement of the problem of land payments, improvement of leases, as many farms do not take into account the interests of farmers. After all, there is a significant difference in the size of the rent for the land portions of the rations in the regions. In all cases, though, this has to do with the quality of the land. More than that, to put it mildly, is the activity of local authorities. Another question. Calculations with the owner of the land. In many farms, rural rent is paid mainly in natural form. Only 5 to 10 percent of the money. First of all, it creates social tension. And secondly, it gives rise to various abuses on the part of the individual tenants that the prosecutor's office is doing today. In particular, it is not known that last year farmers produced grain at prices far higher than market prices. The pace of agrarian reform has also shown that there is no clear conceptual direction for the development of the agricultural sector in new market conditions. Therefore, the government needs to make an agrarian doctrine of a strategic nature as soon as possible for the prospect that has already been claimed by the deputies of our faction from this rostrum. An analysis of complaints and appeals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine also indicates that the central and local executives have failed a systematic approach to land regulation. There is no coordination between law enforcement agencies, prosecutors, courts against all kinds of abuses and violations. So let's say he's been trying for months to protect himself from the pressure of a group of 120 local villagers in charge. Mikola Artemovich, village of Něhošša Novosenjar region in Poltavščina On their land, they were given an eye by merchants, who are not interested in the earth itself, but in the open oil fields. So they engaged, or they hired, local authorities for their loose ends. The villagers are promised golden mountains, and in Cabal conditions, they make such land leases that the land will never return to the peasants again. Who will be responsible? And there are, unfortunately, many such examples. Taking into account the importance and relevance of these problems, the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party has proposed a number of bills to consider that we believe should seriously improve the situation in many reformed economies. With regard to the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, our faction proposes to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u95	Mikola Pesocki. You don't? Let's move on. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u96	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Honorable People’s Deputies, Multitude Ukrainian People! The question that has not aroused interest in national MPs today is perhaps the most important one that has been considered in this room in the past year. So most people in the room are completely gone right now, they probably don't care, they're just yelling about responsibility. What responsibility, whom responsibility, and who will be responsible for the ruined village today, I do not know. So, in order for the earth to become a commodity under the Earth Code today, first of all, we need to make urgent changes and add some safeguards to the Earth Code so that the peasants don't become slaves on this earth. And until it becomes a commodity, it must be saved by the land that has been given to us, the Ukrainians, by the god. I mean, 600 million tons a year -- the loss of soil and the reason for it -- is the destruction of agricultural land that has been inherited from us since the times that we are now barking. The dissipation given to us in the government is up to 90 percent and on average in Ukraine 78 percent, while in Europe over 25 percent is nowhere, says that we should be doing land protection right now before we sell it, because then there will be a new reason for some interpersonals and for a small civil war. To prevent that from happening, I repeat, I am addressing Prime Minister Yanukovic. Well, aren't you ashamed that the debt for government-produced acts is now 192 million dollars? Isn't it embarrassing for the government today? Well, there's Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, Vice Prime Minister, but this is a question for the government to solve -- 192 million. The privatisation of one object -- I've shown it in an open letter to the President -- gives 400 million down to the estimate, and it's full of these objects. And here's 192 million of everything. So we have to finance this for sure. Secondly, I would like to draw your attention by using the presence of the vice-premier of what we are doing today. You're preparing, at least under the Constitution, to prepare the President's decrees, stop! Who prepared the decree of February 17, 2003, on the measures to create a single state registration of land and so on, the President's decree. Who prepared the decrees of 94th, 95th year on the order of land burning, on urgent measures, on the acceleration of land reform, when the Constitution states that these issues are governed exclusively by laws. Who allowed this to happen? This is the excess of the President's power -- the issuance of decrees on these issues. And let's see how we'll then regulate legislation when we get in there with the Kuvalda, or decrees. Come on, government, take responsibility if you take it. I ask the question that the day before, and when land certificates are replaced by land ownership certificates on earth, there are errors of national importance. The distribution of rations was based on the taxation of land rather than on the cost of land or on the economic valuation of land by differential income. The bonitation is based on the depth of the rubber horizon and the contents of the gum, but the humus in various cadastral areas has different activities and cannot be constructed in large areas. For example, Borogir forest soils have up to 5 percent of the gum, wheat yields about 8 centimetres per hectare, and gray exposed soils in the Winnitsk region have 1.5 percent of the gum and wheat yields from 35 to 40 hectares and less labor and resources. Or another example, the gray, abrasive soil has a depth of 25 centimeters [25 cm], can be estimated at about 25 points. And we have estimates that need to be applied. Mr. Andryshin Miron Yuriovich of Lviv prepared 150 papers on this subject. Raise them up, please, government officials, apply and see. In the mountainous areas of Carpathian, the Crimea does not include vertical zonality, but it should be taken into account. I would like to express my attitude towards that draft decision of the Supreme Council, which we are handed over to the people's deputies. I'm addressing the head of my colleague's committee on the faction of "Our Ukraine" by Mr. Tomic. This draft decree is not fit anywhere, my dear friend. It's no use! There's no criticism here. Let's change it, you want me to change it. But I'm going to make changes, and I'm going to make changes to the Law on the Status of Mountain Settlements, the Law on State Land cadastre, and I'm going to make changes to Ukraine's Land Code, and I urge you to do so. Let's stimulate the government by our determination, not say something is done and more or less normal. Thank you and thank you Hennady Andriyovich for your patience I took 50 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u97	Please Valentina Petrovna Seminouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u98	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Hennady Andriyovich. Before I begin my speech, I would like to address you. Government Day is not just a formal approach, and we need to eradicate this practice of formalism. From the commission, here's a copy of the letter, asking the government. And Mr. Danielenko couldn't even read the whole question, I'm not talking about answering it correctly. When I came to the papers, I asked: Anatoly Stepanovich, so show me what letter I signed for you, is there a hold or is it a hold? I'm so sorry you didn't even learn how to read right, what hold is, what hold is! That's the first one. I saw you working as the committee head, so you got used to forging and getting used to it! I saw it as the committee secretary! So I would like, Gennady Andriyovich, to hear the answer to my second question, and I'll repeat it from the Supreme Council. By decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I quote: from April 2, 2002, number 449 according to the Land Code approved new forms of the State Act on the right to land ownership, to the right of permanent use. A year has passed since the approval of the specified form of the act. Why isn't the Cabinet of Ministers proposing to make a distinction between the state acts that were approved by the Supreme Council, I repeat, the Supreme Council on March 13, 92? Why do you need different forms of acts?Oh, my God! That's the kind of question that my signature went to the Cabinet of Ministers. You, Anatoly Stepanovich, even misquoted him. Answering here, in this room, you said that we had already sent the bill here. So I would like to ask you, dear fellows, here, who are present, what is the law that is not yet passed, only the draft law that has been sent, and the executive authority is already doing its work? We get it in such a way that the authorities themselves provoke what they want, and then we in this room have to legitimize with you what they want. I think it's a crime. And the Stretovich commission on this issue needs to be taken care of. Anatoly Stepanovich, you can't run ahead of the train. And you don't know which document this is going to be. That's why I'm addressing Tomic, please look at what forms of acts are being used today, which are being published in 1992 or in 2003. Next. The decree of the State Committee on Land Resources of May 15, 2000, No. 56, registered with the Ministry of Justice. Which is clearly in writing and I would like the commission, the Supreme Council Committee on Land Resources, to review this decree, and respond, Anatoly Stepanovich, you. How much is it spent on agitation and explanatory work, and how much money has gone? The other one. According to paragraph 3 of this order, which is issued and registered in the Ministry of Justice No. 361458, it is written "to arrange for the sale and sale of land plots and rights to land, including the rights to land portions of pies certified by the certificate, the conduct of regional auctions, open trades and all-U.S. electronic auctions through special organizations defined on competitive principles." I'd like to ask, Anatoly Stepanovich, there's an e-mail in the village of Zaczypilovka, and how do you trade them, how do you execute such an order? I would like this analysis to be carried out in detail, and the APC committee should examine these relevant commands. We're very sorry to hear that we're getting under-laws that not only violate the laws, but even the President's decrees. If you are already acting on orders, at least do them correctly, not distort the relevant regulations. And don't do what you don't need to do. I want to say that the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council, which I lead, constantly controls the issue of issuing land acts to the individual sector, because according to the situation, this function is assigned to our commission. And what I'm saying is that repeated references show that today is a special block to the implementation of the Supreme Council Regulation of 13 March 1992 on the issue of the individual sector. From this rostrum, Anatoly Stepanovich, you said that only 15 percent of the acts had been given to citizens who wanted to sell the garden were sold. Why are you climbing to agricultural land instead of doing what is written down by the Supreme Council? Land for agricultural purposes, acts issued to them for a collective form of farming, and this does not mean that they should be sold properly through auctions that you determine according to the orders that have been fixed. So I want to pay attention to the proposal for a specific decision. After the issue of land acts to the individual sector, to understand in the end why the decrees ended in 1998, the decrees of 2001-2003 continue to be issued. Either we follow orders, or we walk by law. And if we really are building a legal state, Gennady Andriyovich, I conclude, we should leave the right to use and command the land by representative bodies on the moons, by councils, as stated in the law on local self-government and as stated in the European Charter on Local Self-Government. And we don't have to fool Europe into going to them with this kind of land legislation. Thank you. Do not engage in pharisaic activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u99	Anatolia Stepanovich, you will be prepared and your closing statement will be delivered. The word is given to Masenko Alexandro Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u100	Masenko, Communist Party faction, Poltavsk district. Well, to me, Anatoly Stepanovich, and the honourable members of the government, and those who organized this Government Day, it's strange to ask the very question, "To comply with legislation." And all of the breeding, all of the reforms in agriculture have taken place illegally, contrary to the rules of the Constitution, and now they have raised questions and we want to establish whether or not legislation is in place. But we're doing everything illegal, which is what we're talking about. And the first question I want to ask is, did I find Anatolia Stepanovich an effective host, an effective landowner? He got away with it, he didn't answer, he twisted it, he didn't answer it. So I am officially telling you, Anatoly Stepanovich, an effective landowner has not been found and will not be for a while. Just think about it, I couldn't figure it out for a few more years, and now you can see that those who get pies, they're going to work and retire for five years, and those who don't have pies will come to work. They'll work effectively, please tell me, if you don't pay the salary and you don't get the pie, and he'll say, what am I going to do with Danilenko or Zayev or Masenkovi for the pie to make money? Well, me, too, Gennady Josephovich, I'm not denying it, I'm just figuratively saying it, I'm not intruding. He will not work effectively on earth. You should have thought about that when you covered up all these reforms. And when Anatoly Stepanovich keeps talking and referring to the President's orders. People good, yes, the President has us, I don't deny he's a very smart man, but he's worked his entire life, rockets did, well, he's still in trusts there. And in agriculture, the same person may not fully understand, and you've been hinting, but you've been directing him to sign these decrees. So where have you been? And Alexander Ivanovich Borzich puts it: Who will be held accountable? Yes, agrarians should first bear the responsibility that they offered, adopt such laws, and now they are all dissolving their hands and not knowing what to do. But the ruin of the land is complete. There's a lack of funding in your documents. Or maybe you didn't have to spend it at all, spend it like that, 192 million in debt for 2000, 2 million in debt. But what surprises me most is that one of the funding channels to solve this issue is the help of the United States. Anatoly Stepanovich, the Ukrainian mentality, what's different from the American? If a Ukrainian has a soul that hurts, what happened to me and not to a neighbor, do you think an American is so far away from it? They also do what they do to make Ukrainians live better than they do, or can they do even better than they do? They'll never get away with it. That's what I'm telling you, and remember. What has been the result of all these reforms? So I looked at your documents, and you wrote that the rent per hectare on average is 112, 3 bracelets. Well, let's count it. In Ivano-Frankiv district, 1.1 hectares per soul, in Crimea, 5, somewhere else in Poltavian, 3.7 acres. Let's figure it out. So 1, 1 is 123 bracelets of 50 dollars a year a person has income, so it doesn't have that income yet, because what do they give? They give 50 or 500 dollars a tonne, and when the cost of that grain is 200 dollars. So does it still fit this reality? That's 10 bucks a month, and if even 50 acres, 50 bucks a month. So it's better to add the size of the wage, the pension size of this amount to add, and people would get it and not get it to themselves or the government, but to support those collective farms that were, and they would give reliable income to the budget and they would pay people these wages. Once again, I want to say that they go to the rostrum with their hands. The good people, the time will come, someone will have to answer for it. I'm not scaring you, but the people themselves, the situation itself is going to lead to an experiment on living people and on our land that needs to be answered. I'm asking you to stop, see what we've done, analyze it. And from this whole thrust of reform. Nothing good will happen until then, Anatoly Stepanovich, while all of us, together with you reformers, go to the village, see, curse your destiny -- excuse me for saying that -- whoever wants to work there with the pie that they got. Trust me, Anatoly Stepanovich, it's pure -- I see my hand on the heart laid, and I put my hand on my heart -- people curse everyone who's led to it, to that state of people. Think about it, and let's make life better for the people, and let's not keep cutting down our land and breaking it. Think about what will happen if the land is sold. You're going to go out and spread your hands again, and what happened? This will be a disaster for the Ukrainian people in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u101	Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u102	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. John Rabbit of the Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear national MPs, honourable members of the government, today we have heard many examples in this room, violations of current legislation in the process of privatizing and using the land. It's also the non-inclusion of citizens on the list of landowners, although they had all the legitimate grounds for that. [[pear]] No less than 164 thousand have such citizens been found. Think about this figure, and you will understand the enormous, unacceptable extent of violations of legislation and disregard for the rights of citizens. At the same time, thousands of citizens wrongly received land share certificates, got, in simple terms, mud. [[pear]] Among them are many officials of the Reichs, other government authorities, and local self - government. It is not uncommon for farm managers to illegally hold citizens’ certificates and deliberately delay the allocation of their land rations in kind. The great injustice is done in relation to the citizens who rented their pies. They are usually calculated, not by money, but by nature, and at overpriced prices higher than market prices. It's a regular village robbery in broad daylight. Recently, I was with Ukrainian national deputy Volodymyr Cherniak in the Lysin region of Cherkas region. There people complained that they had to spend a lot of money on privatisation documents. What calculation has shown that a citizen has to pay a considerable amount of over 100 dollars to produce documents for the privatization of land, since there are legislative restrictions of 85 dollars. I could continue to list violations of citizens' rights in the process of privatizing the land, but in the absence of time, I will consider another violation. That is, I want to draw your attention to the fact that only 47 percent of citizens have been able to convert land certificates into state-owned property rights. What lies behind this figure is that millions of citizens are in a state of lawlessness because a certificate does not protect a person from the will of the leaders, does not provide him with a future. And this injustice is that many people are blackmailed by corporate leaders: "You don't want to live by the rules you've imposed on me, so get out, but you'll get three nine lands of your house and the worst quality." And men must bow their heads before these woeful rulers. Recently, I was approached by the people of the village of Zarubinzi, in the Andrusha district of Žitomir district, asking for help in reaching the truth. That's the point. The farm manager does not accept them to work, nor does he make a lease on their cobwebs. And this is because the land portion of these people is not allocated in kind and they do not have a State act on the right to private property to land. And where the authorities, the controlling authorities, are looking, do they not see that the land of these citizens is being used and used illegally? That someone is benefiting from such exploitation and that the real owners of the earth are without means of existence and under unbearable psychological pressure. Land relations, which are generally not built on the right of private property to land, and on land certificates, will never lead to the creation of a real owner, landowner, to the efficient use and preservation of land, to the support of peasants, and to the preservation of rural life. Such relations will only give birth to a tenant lilyfar under the fine name of an investor who has no interest in the fate of peasants. And now, right here, that's exactly what's in the "lords" paws. During the election campaign, I worked very hard on the left bank of the Cherkas region and especially in the Kanów region. I've been watching the relationship between these tenants and the peasants. They're people who think they can soak up, gather together, and walk away. They don't care that there's no club, they don't care that there's no culture. They don't care that there's no artistic activity -- they all run. Thus, it reaffirms the simple truth that only one who owns the earth and dwells on it can be a real host. Such policies will certainly lead to the fact that the earth will not be in the hands of the Ukrainians. The exchange of land certificates should therefore be accelerated for state-owned land rights. If there is no per cent exchange of certificates for state acts and the issue of rations, you can't sell land! So I call on the government and Parliament to create conditions for the issue of state-owned land rights in the full range of 2003-2004. As honourable national deputies, we cannot agree with the government’s plans to do this work until January 1, 2006. Let us not forget that the land is to become a commodity according to current legislation after January 1, 2005. I don't understand the government's refusal to say that there's not enough money to do this job. Money is like a new economy that is about the size of the legal economy. I'm done. I can't get a government program to transform this shadow economy into a legal one. When will the Mafia take over?Oh, my God! But the government's policy is not about perspective, it's about the village, it's about the renter and the lilyfar investor, it's about selling Ukrainian black people to foreigners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u103	Instead of the Pesotic word, it is given to Nestor Sufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u104	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorary colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, distinguished representatives of the government, the land issue in Ukraine is traditionally of a principled nature. So the position of the state on this issue must be a principle. Creating the necessary conditions, including legislative and legal ones for work on earth, is primarily the responsibility of the State. As well as maximizing the speedy introduction of the earth into the plane of one of the main factors of economic growth. Earthly economic security is essentially Ukraine's gold share. It is not a secret that the U.S. dollar is only 20 percent supplied by goods, but 80 percent by land. In view of the quantity and quality of agricultural arrangements, Ukraine has the full right to expect a substantial amount of land yield, of course, under the condition of a large, delicate, well-balanced work in this direction. To the strong conviction of the faction of the United Ukraine Social Democratic Party, the legislative provision for the reform of the agricultural sector in Ukraine, with the adoption of the Earth Code, has come to a qualitatively new level. Setting up private property on land is exactly what the peasant expected of the government, and even more so was the economy. Permanent investments in agriculture at the expense of the land strike, I hope that will still happen, able to give a powerful boost to Ukraine's economic growth. So any opposition to establishing a citizen's right on his own land is absolutely unacceptable. Among the problems that arise today from this rostrum, the faction would like to highlight the following. The first group of problems related to the system of land affairs. Regrettably, because of mistakes and bad ideas, a large number of eligible citizens have not been listed. We cannot forget the health, education, social, and cultural representatives who have given their whole lives to rural work. For the most part, the truth is established through the courts, but such cases do not rush into court. Moreover, when the matter is under consideration, it does not yet mean solving the problem. The courts generally simply renew a person’s right to a piece of land, and in most of their decisions they fail to explain the order of his execution. The timely execution of court decisions and the restoration of citizens’ rights are not conducive to this approach. For a warning of delay, the judges ’ decision should grant the land pie right from the reserve fund’s lands. I'm sure the high-ranking judges understand that, but in practice they do something different. Incomprehensible positions are also taken by law enforcement authorities, operating on a time-limited invitation period. In fact, this rostrum should remind us that article 76 of the Civil Procedure Code, under which fraudulent lawsuits arise from the day they learnt about it, is inconsequential. The second group of problems is related to an unwarranted medium. We have such information that the relevant central and local executive authorities have been successful in helping citizens make money on land in paws, all kinds of funds that, using the information base of state institutions, give citizens this information for money. Such funds were prescribed in all, including central lands. We have to produce one formula once and for all. There can be no intermediation between the public authority and the citizen in matters relating to land information. And information work on land matters is essential. Let's say this is a simple example. A large number of citizens cannot change their inheritance certificates to state acts simply because of the basic lack of money to pay for various forms of duty. Although under article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, the same rural councils can make decisions that exempt citizens from the payment of government duties and the payment of services related to the notarial certification of contracts, the alienation of the right to land. Does one of the villagers know about this? Hardly. And so many examples. The faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine sees the root of the problems in the land issue in the absence of a proper feedback from the peasant state. [[United]] And the inability of peasants to influence land reform significantly, creates social tension in society, undermines confidence in the ideas and objectives of land reform. We believe that all the executive authorities, who honor John Grigorovich, need to maximize their activities in this direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u105	Instead of Rudzikowski, the word is given to Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u106	Mikola Melnik, Ukrainian Socialist Party Honorable Chairman, Honourable Deputies, Honorable Ukrainian People. Before discussing the state of compliance with Ukrainian legislation on the issue of State-owned property rights to land, land-paid certificates and their circulation, compliance with Ukrainian law on extradition in kind, the Constitution of Articles 13 and 14 on the substance of the ownership of Ukrainian peoples to land and other natural resources should first be examined. The Ukrainian Code of Land, adopted on October 25, 2001, does not only define the essence of the ownership of the Ukrainian people to land but does not even mention this form of property. An official interpretation of articles 13, 14 of the Constitution of Ukraine is required. First. Can the land, and this is property of the Ukrainian people, be the object of the sale, that is, the goods, except for the parting parts? The other one. Are only the Ukrainian people fully entitled to ownership of the land? Over the past ten years, the government has deliberately done everything to prove the inability to function as a cooperative form of farming on earth as the basic foundation of modern agricultural production. In fact, the state threw the village aside, encouraging it to be robbed by commercial structures. This is well illustrated by last year’s cluster of grains that have been poured out and billions of damage to the village. As a result, thousands of agricultural cooperatives and farmers have lost their fuel - efficient crops, minibars, and so on. Never before has the country’s history of disrespect for the village, for the man who lives and works in it, acquired signs of State politics. This is how the state repays those who, without having received a meager salary for years, have done everything they can to feed the country under extremely difficult production conditions. Instead of the real universal policy of the village, as is being done worldwide, the government authorities are deeply concerned only with the implementation of the President's illegal anti-constitutional decree on urgent measures to accelerate the reform of the agro-industrial sector of the economy, whose main objective is to turn the land into a purchase and sale. It has happened that, for the sake of higher smoking, the executive power in places in many cases is forcing and blackmailing farms, dividing people into owners and tenants, making them debtors of the state and commercial structures. There is every reason to believe that this is done for people to give up their land or to get rid of it for nothing. Land reformers have been speculative about the possibility of receiving bank loans. Earth. And now for effective investors. During this week, I had to ask the victims. Farmers visit two farms: the Skuri district of Kyiv region and the village of Komarov in the Winnitsky region. I'm going to read a couple of abstinences from the written and oral statement of the victims: "Help protect our human and constitutional rights, they call. We, the employees and pensioners of the Colossus SAP, like beggars, are asked, on our knees, to work as a charity, a salary that has not been deliberately paid since 1996. We have been deceived by mysterious changes, forms, and social names, and have been changed three times. There are no district offices anywhere we go. For what do we tolerate the abuse, the aberration of the Kyiv exiles, these effective dispossessors? And the son of a football player, Srebrenica, they took all our work, they sold crops, cattle, property that was incinerated. At the same time, increasing the creditor's debt on all payments. After many mistrusts in our own offices, we believed that we owners of land and property, unanimously in the congregations assembled by the initiating group, had shown mistrust to these leaders and had chosen a new agricultural husband, Yakoubovsky. But he and his family refused to let him go to work. We appeal to you, honourable deputies, to power. We do not require benefits, privileges, we ask for help with the right to pay to take sides with the law and constitutional rights of ordinary people and work. We've beaten all the thresholds in the official offices and it's very painful that we're being met as enemies." There are many such letters. Of course, the low standard of living of rural people, the misunderstandings of many of them during their month in agricultural reform, the low buying price of agricultural products, milk, meat, sugar, and milk have increased rural social tensions, the reluctance of some young people to live and work in rural areas. Another unusual situation took place with the replacement of land. Just a minute, just a little more. Certificates for State certificates. The earth turns into a chess game, and later, into a huge social fire for the costless earth, all of this is being planned, consciously. And for the rest. In rural areas, the number of people who do not have land rations is increasing, which is the rural youth who enters the labour force. Also, over the years, there has been an increase in the proportion of land by unexploded pies, the loss of its owner. Such parts need to continue to be fixed temporarily for young people who would not lose the incentive to work along with the payment of work at the level of all received a portion of the wages on rations in government acts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u107	The word is given to Michael Odysnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u108	Mikola Odanik, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Winnitzkin. Honourable MPs, distinguished members of the government, distinguished people of Ukraine, good day to you, good health to all. We have just considered the government's report on compliance with Ukrainian legislation on the issue of state-owned property rights to land. You listen to the numbers, you look at the charts and graphs, and you think about the tremendous work that had to be done. And it was done in good conscience, it was done in the legislative field, but you ask yourself, is this a legislative field? And where is it headed? What it has done for a Ukrainian citizen and what will be the result. Perhaps each one has his own answer to these questions. In my view of a more terrible disaster for my own people, Ukraine as a whole could not have been invented. Thousands of villages today are devastated, millions of people are unemployed, villages forget wedding music, forget about children getting baptized -- it's called reform. We've almost forgotten about the property pie, we don't talk about it anymore because the property pie is gone as such. The old people say that the painting is scarier after the war, but the war has brought people together, has united the good around us against evil, and by reforming people we have divided into three groups, those having a pie of land, those judging, and you all know that today the courts are filled with questions about land and those who do not receive it according to the President’s decree. Of course, this is what separates people, and animosity usually begins. You know, it must have been someone who really needed it. You have to have a hungry, destitute slave, it's easier to lie, cheat, rob, intimidate and finally buy. So I appeal to all who have a little bit of humanity, love for people, for the earth, for Ukraine, let us unite and stop this turmoil over our own people, the abuse of this nation. And by no means will we allow the sale of the land. Let's stop today because tomorrow might be too late. It's going to take a while, and in this room, maybe in another room, we're going to discuss genocide in the 2000s, and we're going to call it specific names. You'll say there's a man out there who's against reform. No, I'm saying no again, but any reform must be based on the well-being of a man, a man of work, not on the well-being of an effective owner. Reforms that take place in a three-month term in an effective owner's agreement, not in the interests of their own people, are failures, failures for the village, failures for all of Ukraine. We are moving one step at a time toward this collapse, and we are covering ourselves with the thoughts of the people. Sadly, though, we do not hear or even listen! And today's most serious step towards failure is to reform the agricultural complex. Of course, you'll say, what's next? There can be no going back. But let's think with you, Parliamentarians, government, how do we tackle the holes that are already made today, and how do we prevent others? As we will not do so today, we will lose Ukraine, we will lose our people. Already today, millions of better sons and daughters are leaving their homes, going to foreign lands to be hired, and including to be hired on earth. At that time, hundreds of hectares, hundreds of thousands of acres [100 ha] of the best land in Europe, our land with you, are growing in weeds and shrubs. I'm talking to everyone because I'm sure if the land works, we'll save the village. If we save the village, Ukraine will work, and we will have Ukraine to be proud of. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u109	Thank you. Gennady Josephovich Vudovenko, please. Next Tuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u110	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs! The government’s report indicated the progress and effectiveness of land reform. Let's look at them in terms of ensuring citizens' rights to land. It is now generally recognized that the land right certificate is not yet a document that makes the peasant a real landowner. It only confirms the peasant’s right to own a virtual land that is not in nature, the area of the border and the location of which is not specifically known. To some extent, this situation can be compared with the memorable privatization certificates that Ukrainian citizens have received in their time. The results of property privatization are well known, the winnings and the acquisitions of citizens' crossovers are also known. In fact, they were robbed. Solve the situation and make the villagers real landowners. The President's decree of 3 December 1999 on the urgent steps to accelerate and reform the agricultural sector of the economy, which provided farmers with adequate rations in kind and to issue state-owned land rights by the end of 2002. Today, we are hearing from the government that has replaced the certificates for state acts with private property rights to land only 47.2 percent of citizens. Once again, the so - called convincing, principal, objective reasons were found, first and foremost, the lack of financing for land - use work. Promises again. Moreover, President No. 134 of Ukraine issued a decree on the establishment of a single State system for the registration of land, immovable property and their rights in the form of a State’s land cadastra, which has now set new deadlines, to complete the issuance of State acts by 2006. Sometimes you ask yourself, ‘ Who is the best person to take time? ’ The answer is clear, for those who actively want to join in redistributing the earth’s most important national and national wealth. The committee headed by the Committee on Human Rights has a number of letters that actually address the same issue of the disproportionate cost of work for the replacement of certificates. In accordance with the President’s decree of 30 December 1999, it should not exceed 85 dollars. Well, that's what this was about. But since 2001, the trend of executives, first and foremost, has become apparent to the Ukrainian State to increase the cost of these jobs by introducing all kinds of additional pay services, which together may amount to 150 dollars and more depending on the regions, and today other figures have been cited. For peasants, especially single and retired, it is a huge amount that they cannot and may never be able to pay. And that means getting a state deed on land. In a letter to our committee, the resident of the village of Bogoduhiva in the Cherkas region of Cherkas region, the disabled of the second group of the Great Homeland War, Mikola Baki, writes. I quote. "I've worked at a college for over 40 years. When he was reformed, I was given a 2,8 - acre [2.8 ha] pie. And the property pie. I gave the land pie to a neighbor who helps us in our farm, who actually cares for us, and the property pie stayed with the farm company "Godduhsky", for which I don't get paid a penny." End of quote. And this, honourable deputies, is happening in the center of Ukraine, where we have some of the best lands. Usually, when using the natural form of payment, settlement with peasants was made at the higher prices of the tenant, who after a while was buying into peasants who could not sell the same agricultural product on their own, but at higher prices. Obviously, such calculation schemes cannot be called any other name at all, such as simple feudal medieval robberies. The above causes numerous complaints from peasants to state authorities and to bring them to court. In my view, it is necessary to hold parliamentary hearings, which are primarily to be heard by the heads of law enforcement authorities on the situation of compliance with effective legislation in the course of land reform. And the last. We are very concerned about the numerous incidents in Crimea that have led us to leave behind a large number of Crimean Tatars. We demand special attention from the State, especially from law enforcement authorities, regarding the equitable allocation of returnees to the land. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u111	The word is given to Weaver Roman Volodymyrovich, next to Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u112	Roman Tkac, Galician constituency number 88, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs, members of the government. The importance and relevance of the issue that we are hearing today is also reflected in the fact that in the second half of the year, taking into account the January parliamentary hearings, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is discussing and analysing the situation in the village. Of course, there is a great deal of talk about conversions in the Ukrainian village — from price policy to basic agricultural products to social development. Today, as I see it, the most important issue of agrarian reform is chosen. The essence of today's changes in the village is actually about changing the socio-economic fabric of society. The village is shaped by the owner of the land, which is why questions arise, and what problems arise. Above all, is all the things declared by the State being accomplished? Dear colleagues, with effect from 1 January 2002, the new Ukrainian Land Code has created conditions to amend or amend the Ukrainian President’s decree on land regulation, in particular with regard to land burning. However, so far there is no practical action from either the President's Administration or the Kabmin. And so today, talking about meeting the requirements of land legislation is very difficult, because significant work has still been done without a proper legal basis, so that's what's going on right now. Therefore, the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine continue to be violated, allowing the acquisition and realization of ownership of land solely in accordance with the law. In general, the work of producing and issuing State acts on land ownership is quite cumbersome, of course, if done technically correctly. Considering that the payment capacity of rural people is rather low, the vast majority of them are unable to pay the cost of the land’s decent work necessary for the maintenance of land particles, rations in kind, and the production of state acts on the right to private property on land. Costs allocated by the state budget do not cover all the needs for these jobs. Only individual local authorities, in particular in Ivano-Frakiv and several other areas, help rural pensioners to acquire state acts from various sources of funding. But at this point, the process of obtaining the document does not end. Thus, according to article 33 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self - Government, Ukraine’s registration of property rights of subjects to land, the registration of land use rights and leases, the issuance of documents certifying ownership, the right to use the land of the State is placed on executive bodies of rural, rural and urban councils. While doing this work earlier, they did not charge citizens for it. In spite of the current legislation, however, the Cabinet of Ministers has placed this work on the bodies of the State Commission. Using internal normative documents, we have already talked about the above, instructions, instructions to the State Commission, by the way, very often unregistered in Ministit, local land administrations for the registration of state acts on land are taking, and in fact they are taking, from the villagers, additional costs of 40 dollars and above. There's been a lot of talk about this here, and so I want to say that once again the peasant is being deceived, because, on the one hand, the President's decree already mentioned, the entire cost should not exceed 85 dollars per act, but actually the total cost of work, taking into account registration and other jobs, is between 120 and 300 dollars. That's why there are so many low indicators in some areas regarding the issuance of state acts. But I'd like to pay attention to something else. By the way, it's already said that there's very little money in the state budget. But I want to speak to you, Ivan Grigorovich, and to you, Anatoly Stepanovich. The State budget for this year has allocated a large amount of funding for land reform. Thus, 35.6 million dollars are planned for the State Committee on Land Resources under the land reform code, and according to the law of the State, 197 million dollars have been allocated to land ownership and registration, 141 million of which are capital expenditures. So I would like to ask you to give us, the people's deputies, a detailed schedule of the expenditure that has been recorded, as planned by the budget for the current year. And please consider this a parliamentary request. And to the end. I personally favor that the earth should become a commodity. But if the public authorities responsible for this work are doing so today, I have a question: Or are they artificially overestimating the value of state acts, while depriving legitimate landowners of the right to land, in fact, conditions are being created today when, since 2005, land for agricultural purposes will be donated to the predetermined several large oligarchs. That's why we all have to move the framework set by the Constitution and the Ukraine Code of Land immediately by both the MPs and the members of the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u113	Thank you. The word is given to Sasu. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u114	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. The honorable chairman, the venerable ones in attendance, who are still in the hall. By the time we were all given certain materials, I read and think of some epithets. Written sequentially, smoothly, beautifully, in one word, professionally written. It's like it's not analytic reference materials, it's about presenting to a high state reward. But I continue to read that criticism is, in fact, kind of a shy criticism, a sweet one, and a sweet one is, of course, only a lie and a lie for greater persuasiveness in ridicule, of course with the truth. On page 12, I read the last paragraph, "43,000 farms have been created." That's probably true. "In the last three years, their numbers have increased by almost 7,000." That's probably true, too. "They only use 6.2 percent of farmland." It's not hard to count. Next: "With personal agriculture last year, they produced about 60 percent of the gross agricultural production, including animal production, over 72 percent. And here I asked myself, and who and how did I count my mother-in-law living in the village, how much milk she had fed, how many pigs she had fed, how much potatoes she had grown, and everything else, of course no one. And I think in most peasants who listen to us, there's no one, and there's a percentage. Inadvertently, it was thought that this was not the backside of that loaf of bread that was offered last year in Ukraine. Some not to get, others not to fall off the trough, and others to beat the price and rob the peasant, and others to seal the powerful export potential that the world has become frightened and washed as much bread as possible abroad. The result is known if you believe the minister in the State Halls in a new crop of bread in circumcision, and where is it true that the minister is telling the truth? Where is the guarantee that the minister is telling the truth? Today, the price of one loaves of less than a kilo of bread in many regions is already more than one bracelet of 70 copies. The truth is that there will be no wheat crop in 2003. I went from Kirovgrad to Lviv, and I didn't see any fields in good condition. Again, the eternal question, What to do, and who is to blame? There is no money in the budget for these purposes, which means once again with a bag around the world. And the culprit has already been found, the genius has proven guilty, from the entire European state protected by the army, the IMF, the prosecutor's office, the B.S.A., the Tax Office, customs combined by more than a million armed men stole the grain and no one has seen it. It also states that only 8.3 per cent of the land’s rent is paid in cash. And 83.4 percent in nature. It's defined modestly as a negative factor, but it's not often said that "nature" doesn't look like "nature" at all, but there's unpolluted grain from under a combination of elevated moisture, grain waste, or open garbage called "dead waste." And it's not just the market price, it's the market price, it's the market price, it's the market price, it's the price, it's the price, it's the price, it's the price, it's the price, it's the price, it's the price, it's And it's all in two billion dollars that are paid to peasants. And in the gross congregation, the grain is included, which today is trying to find the prosecutor’s office. And the services that are provided as rents are often just a busy rural town for the entire amount of rent. Therefore, I would recommend that those for whom such help is written, first of all to the distinguished Leonid Danilovich, leave the Uzbek problems to the Uzbeks, the Mongolian Mongols and, at least once, to go without warning and preparation from Kiev and to make sure that the results of the reform of the APC and the reform of land relations are in particular. It's like Shevchenka's, it's like the village is black as if people have gone crazy. You will face dark, unlit streets, hungry and empty nurserys and cultural houses, looted empty farms, workshops, all like after the bombing of Iraq. Over the years, barren, grassy fields, people who do not remember the last time they received a meager wage, where milk, meat, and land certificates are being bought at no cost. And if you came in winter, you could see things that I personally saw in Leningrad's films during the blockade, when the nephews in the children's sleigh in the polyethylene bags were tied to the cemetery. Last winter it was all in Ukraine, especially in Kirovgrad, and many of these people died, not from old age, but because roads were too slow and there was no way to get to the hospital. In every other village where I've had to be, Kirovgradina, Cherkashina, property, work, land stands extremely sharp. The main thing is that peasants suffer. They usually have nowhere to look for protection. The government, usually on the side of someone with authority and money, sends a peasant to court, and there, like an anecdotes, the law is on our side and the judge is on the other side. The truth is achieved by the way the parties compete, which is of course not on the peasant side. I'm not going to give an example. All the proposals that we consider necessary for land reform have been made by the faction in the draft amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Land. Everyone else will be transferred to the profile committee as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u115	The word is given to Michael Antonovich Pavlovsky. The next one is Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u116	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Julia Timoshenko's faction. Fatherland's Party, Hmelnichtina. Honorable national MPs, journalists, members of the government's day. I’m the last to speak, so I’m obliged to sum it up. So, I've noticed that all the previous, honourable ones of mine have been talking very important questions, but they're tactical. I want to talk about strategic issues. To answer, why is our kind, hardworking people so poor and humiliated? Why were the 13 women who came to me from the Ruzekchankas who had worked on the earth their whole lives and had not been given pies? Why are their rights violated in the Jarmolin region almost in relation to each third? And you called about 100,000 people today, they're just deceived, they're hurt, they're what to do, why? The question is very strategic, because we've set up a model market for the 18th century, and there are no laws. It's wild capitalism and we put it here. It's not a civilized market of developed nations, it's a wild one. And look at the central channels that stand up. Like even today with grain, where we repeat the conditions of famine in the year 33 in 2003. Everyone says, but we're in fifth place on grain exports. And then in 33 there was almost a first place in grain exports, but the people died out and now we're going to do that. And there's no one to answer, and there's no one to protect. Here's a question. Why, as my colleague Sas all said, in the changes to the Earth Code, which are represented by the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc, we show how to change the Earth Code or do it first. Not allowing the land to be sold to foreigners, for then, if we want to restore justice, we will be bombarded because it will be the property of another state. You can't touch her. And other questions. Why does our industry not work for our agriculture? But how do we do that? How Can I Affect the President? On his orders, we carried out all the reforms!? People are good, think. You've supported in many cases whether you like it or not, you've been intimidated, you've been harassed, but you've supported the President, especially in the elections. Why isn't the President protecting you, why can't we, the people's deputies, address the President?Oh, my God! Because the President gave the order to the majority: don't vote for his requests. And for a few sessions, no more questions can be sent to the President. And he says, “And people don’t talk to me.” So, Your Honor, I'm going to tell you how to influence the President when he reacts. For you have not seen him loose at least one head of administration who does not stand for your interests. And I'm going to tell you how to influence the President. How to free those heads of administration who do not do your will does not concern you. A very simple mechanism. Right now, the President will lead you to a referendum. And you know, when the President's election in areas where Kuchma wasn't voted for, in a week, all the heads of administration were released. See what kind of mechanism? Now in the referendum, do your best not to support the President's initiative, and he will release those heads of administration who failed to perform the falsification and election tasks. And the president will think about it. There's no other way. We need to influence the President, not listen to the intimidation they're telling you. You see, those who will work in the polling stations either stand up for your interests or they don't. And we'll try, you heard the performances today. We see how at the legislative level, how these issues need to be addressed. We understand that we have made this lawful. And I'm going to the presidency, to the chairman today. Please bring here our amendments and additions to the Earth Code and other laws related to the regulation of matters in the countryside, but do not drag them away, even though they are against the President’s will, against ideas, but they protect the interests of the people. So good people, I urge you to fight for yourself! Because if you're afraid, you'll expect someone to decide, then criminal oligarchs, which, their parties today mostly, they won't solve your questions, they have their problems. They robbed you even further. That 20 percent of the clan families that own 80 percent of Ukraine's wealth, they don't think about you, they think about how to rob you any further. Stay with the opposition! Another way, like, "Get up Ukraine!"we don't. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u117	I would like to explain to the MP not the first call by Mikhail Antonovich Pavlovski. Mikhail Antonovich, I would like to explain to you what the question is, a list of issues that the Supreme Council is considering, is not the daytime presidency of the Supreme Council, not the chairman, but the committee responsible and the faction council. Please, Anatoly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u118	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Honorable members of the government, colleagues, distinguished voters! In the second short term, the Supreme Council is returning to its consideration of the problems of the village. After parliamentary hearings on reform issues, nothing that has ever worked has ever been done by executive authority. It is difficult to communicate with villagers by looking at the devastation, poverty, and irresponsibility of government officials. I agree with the voters who think that the reform of the APC is nothing more than the abuse of the Ukrainian village. In Soviet times, the village had a formed production and social structure, and all of this has now been destroyed in our eyes. For what? The search for an effective landlord for a contract for Western ideologists forced a peasant to become a slave with a troubled life, even at the age of retirement. There will be those who deny it. People got land, certificates, government acts. Yes, but many in connection with the like have lost faith in tomorrow. They're just dreaming about Soviet times and the unknown fate of children of independent Ukraine, who have no jobs and wages, and the last thing I'm going to tell you is because, in fact, builders, meliorators, budgeters like this land don't have, and if they do, they're willing to give it up today. Where to take human welfare, when clan-oligarchy structures, government bodies are nothing more than a racket that robs, describes property, destroys the lives and minds of citizens. Unfortunately, the poor reformers of the Kravczuk era, Kuchma, who even mentioned Shevchenka, were quoted as saying, "The village has been burned as if people had gone mad, the mutes have gone to the bush and the children are led." Now no one goes anywhere but his arms and legs. As Taras looked into the mirror of Ukrainian reality. Today’s politicians, their reforms have ruined the village, people thrown to survival, steal, drink, rest, die, do not turn to the state, survive as you can. The days of rural areas, Korean exploiters, and Kyiv oligarchs have arrived. Sadly, babies are not born. Children's facilities are closing down, the premises are falling apart. Several words about the state of the Hersonian region have been heard repeatedly in this room. Reformed agriculture, thousands of lands have not been cultivated, and this has been the case for the past ten years. Is that a farm thing? If anyone doubts the consequences of the reforms, I'd like to send you to Hersonian County, the village of Novokiyevka, the former "True" councillor, where I was born, where I had to work. The former Soviet Union has allocated 10 million carbs, a social and manufacturing system. Today it's scary to walk in this village. Tears and despair today, people, especially pensioners, stretch out their hand and ask: “Please take my pie, because I don’t know what to do with it. And here in the case file, Anatoly Stepanovich, was written about the fact that no one was refusing. There's a case here that no one's giving up pies of land or property. Let me take you there to Hersonian and show you those people who are ready to give and say: Work hard for health if there is no one else. People were divided into whites and blacks, made enemies of each other across borders, and placed in unequal conditions about the lands they had received. The work that has been halted today on the despoiling of the land of stock holdings, as article 25 of the Code of Land does not provide for such order. Such shareholders in Ukraine are many, in the Hersonian region of 30. For example, VAT "Paris", "Radinsky", shareholders are virtually deprived of the right to rent land, firstly, leases in the event of litigation will be declared invalid; secondly, renters and investors themselves refuse to cooperate with shareholders, the reason is simple: they don't trust the state. The State act of collective ownership of land has lost legal power since it was issued to the council, and the law does not provide for legal action in these cases. So in stockholder societies, the land is not owned by the state. There have been cases where loyal State institutions have used a strong method of managing the land, a more faithful crop, not taking into account the interests of shareholders. It is also likely that part of the stockholders’ lands can simply be removed by transferring them to the land, especially since landless shareholders are not protected by law. Only 10 percent of those who receive State acts process land on their own. The issue of land use on property rights remains unresolved because of damage, lack of credit, low cost of production, as well as the lack of technology that has been eliminated by tax inspection and the executive justice service. In many parts of the earth, there is no rental. That is why the support of landowners is needed, for the land is not processed, but the land tax is counted. There is a need and a specific job in creating jobs, in increasing agro-forming, in aid of rural and rural councils, and in terms of what I have already said, the law on free legal aid to peasants. Stopping the operations of the mines, let's see, honourable officials, in this regard. People are asking -- I'm finishing up, Hennady Andryovich -- if they're really broken up, they've allocated these property pies, so let's just think about it so that we don't get a chance to figure it out. This should be resolved at the district level. And for the rest. We need to ask those who run executives and districts and so on, and we have officials leaving, and they are rewarded with both medals and letters. To what extent can all of this be tolerated? People suffer, and officials rejoice. I could give many of these examples, and I hope that this will be a reason to talk. And I'd like to ask you not to sell, there's one thing that the voters asked me today is how to assess when foreign investors, the so-called tenants, are asking for 49 years of land rental today. It's not a sly policy like that, it's two generations of people that can then become, who can guarantee it? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u119	The word is given to Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u120	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! So much was said in this room about the problems of reforming the village and the process of watering the village that nothing seems new to me or to anyone else. I'm going to try not to repeat what my colleagues have already said in previous speeches, and I want to stop at the next one. First. One of the main reasons that, as one of the previous speakers said, an effective owner did not come to earth is that I agree with him. There is that out of the number of active participants in the reform process, a peasant was removed, people who lived on earth were expelled and wanted to continue working alone on earth. Some may deny it and tell me how you can say that if millions of peasants have received land rations according to the report. Got it, then what? For me, there is still a question of whether or not they keep those who received the pies in their hands after the sale of the land begins. And if they sell under certain circumstances, if conditions are created for them, what will continue to be with them, where they will go, who will do their business. For me, there is still a question, and for me, because I'm from Crimea, the most painful way to be with millions of peasants, in Ukraine millions, and in Crimea there are tens, hundreds of thousands of peasants who haven't received land rations. What will happen to them and what their conduct will be after the land is sold, they will see a neighbor selling his land pie, that some other foreign people who will not move into the village live but will rule in that village and he will go to them with a whip without having his land. I mean, he's not actually going to be able to somehow decide his own fate. But he will want to live in the village, or he may want to move, but he will not go anywhere. What will be the conduct of those people? Such questions were also raised by you, dear colleagues, and many others could be asked. I wouldn't want to count them that much, but I'd just like to ask myself and you here, and those who can hear us. If we haven't figured it out by now, that's the main thing, with the questions about how to deal with the unjust distribution of land, why we should be talking today, whether land acts are properly formed, state acts. We need to understand one thing. After the state acts have been drafted, we will no longer be able to resolve them almost in court, if the law has allowed it, and after the state acts have taken place, then the person who somehow wants to restore his rights will not be able to do so. I have a lot of examples, I can call a village like Amurské, really, Anatoly Stepanovich knows about it, he went there. 700 claims made by the villagers. The former head of the village council, a corrupter, found people from Simferopol, gave them farm land and gave them no land to his peasants. Those people have already formed state acts, they have ownership rights as farmers to this land, and the villagers in this village have lost their land. I think that before we decide legislatively, and for this to happen, we need to adopt new laws on the land allocation of those peasants, that is, people living in the village, but who don't fall into despair, we can't talk about the finalization of government acts, much more about the sale of land. And I think that's what I want to do, you know, this is the main thing for me, and I've talked about it in some speeches and in parliamentary hearings. I understand that they are in a great hurry. It seems to them that once the earth starts to move, the sale of land, once we've completed the drafting of state acts to those who have already received the lands, those who have received by law, under the existing law, everything will begin and everything will be very good and the market mechanisms will work. And I think that's when we're going to start having problems. So I, without calling for the return of the colonies, will not be able to do that again, and once in the peasants, I end up, once in the peasants they took the land, when the collective was, at the same time, I urge, nevertheless, not to start the final mechanism when the state itself voluntarily hands over the land to someone, but not to its people. So control is no longer in the state, not in the people, it's not clear who has it. Well, we knew who. Those who come and buy this land. And it doesn't matter to me whether it's outside Ukraine or within Ukraine, I know that they're going to buy and concentrate that land without thinking without worrying about the interests of those people who live on earth. They will no longer care for the interests of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u121	Thank you. Anatoly Stepanovich is invited to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u122	Thank you, Your Honor, Gennady Andryovich. I'll be very brief. I'd like to clarify something, because there were such questions. And people, I hope that you have listened to the message of the day that is being considered in the Supreme Council today. First. The President's decrees, the Honourable Valentina Petrovna and, unfortunately, Alexander Aleksandrovitch are gone, the President's decrees, which were adopted in 1994, in 1995, were of an organizational nature, and they did not go beyond the constitutional powers of the President of our state. That's the first one. The other one. I want to do a little bit here about prices and who these prices form. Indeed, it is approved by the Joint Order of the Ministry of Agricultural Policy, the State Commission and the Academy of Agricultural Sciences of the Recommendation. I want to say that all government officials, they don't have the right to engage in entrepreneurial activities, and we don't do that, but control, by coming out of those remarks, we're going to step up, we're going to come to every enterprise and we're going to control and we're going to give you a concrete report of what's done and how it's going to do it, the honorable Valentina Petrovna in this direction, the proper work. About the Trachtomirs, I think we're going to look at the state of use of those land resources effectively, this is in the Cherkas region, and then we're going to give information in the Supreme Council and specifically to the people's deputies who raised the issue. And almost done. I very much want to ask the people's deputies, all those who directly took an active part in the discussion of this issue, so that it doesn't go into the collection of accounts. Criticism is good, and I accept it because it is criticized by someone who does something and has some results. But, dear fellows, my dear friends, if we don't form that package of bills today, because 90 percent of the solutions to these issues that have come out of this high rostrum today depend on the legislation that you're about to adopt. In my report, I called the whole package of bills that are essentially ready for consideration today in the Supreme Council. But they need to be considered in parallel and those that support the dynamic development of the agrarian sector, because it needs to be considered, have an integrated approach. And that's our top priority. And a request. The Land Pay Act ultimately depends on your will, it has to work on Ukrainian land. He must work from this to restore the earth to this present and future generation. And those remarks, those suggestions that were made by the people's deputies and in writing, and in oral form, I think that the workers of our system, specifically as a head, we'll work out concrete measures and we'll be concrete, coming out of your good support to put it into practice. I wish everyone health, success, and thanks for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u123	Please, Semenyuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u124	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Anatoly Stepanovich! I want to give you an answer to what you said the President's orders are valid. When you were the head of the committee and I was the secretary, you did everything you could not to veto the decrees that provided for the certification of the land.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u125	Let's not talk about that right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u126	That's the first one. I don't want people being misled. Finish your habit. The other one. You said we were going to provide information. Government Day is not a formality. The information should be complete, extensive and answered to the questions that have been put before you on Government Day, not after this has been done accordingly. Third. According to the Earth Code, which was adopted even in this sessional room, and the Transitional Positions, paragraph 17, I quote you, "You don't need state acts to land those who donate, inherit," and so on or so forth. And the third question is, if you want to answer to the MPs on our lines. According to the Land Code, the sale of land is not foreseen, beginning with a fixed date until 2005. And you write in the information: the sale of land is 18 percent. Your Honor, get out of the way, read the Earth Code, read the Constitution, do not commit a crime before the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u127	You don't have to translate everything into contentions, you don't have to do that. As far as constitutionality or falsification is concerned. There is a Constitutional Court, please refer to the question that has to be answered definitively. The word is given to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ivan Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u128	Honorable Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished hearing participants, regardless of the number of deputies present in the hall, the participants had an overly principled business, constructive conversation on perhaps the most sinister issue for Ukraine today. I want to thank all those who went out to this rostrum with harsh criticism, with principled suggestions, with pain of speaking out for what it is today. So the first thing the new government has done is, first of all, Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic has given all the departments involved in this subject, and such ministries, many departments, including law enforcement authorities, to put order in this matter within three months. Today, you have received intermediate information. In mid-April, we're collecting all the data from the organs and organizations that were doing order. I think we're going to have a chance, because there's going to be parliamentary hearings for spring and field work, and we're going to inform you about the summary of this work. What you've done and said, you've given specific facts, you've seen that these facts are also in our previous manuals. We work in this way openly. The question deserves to be asked. Of course, it will be impossible in three months, but it will be suggested. The government will work in this respect transparently, honestly, because this is a question of social justice and the issue of the conscience of government at all levels. The other one. Of course, the shortcomings that today are, estimates, abuse, evidence that we do not have an over-perfect normative base, require amendments to the Earth Code, which has been voted on for a little over a year in this room. We're making these adjustments. You're making adjustments. Only this House under the Constitution has the right to intervene in land matters. We've put in a hall, a new government, about a dozen major laws to develop the Earth Code, to resolve the problems that have been raised in this room today with such pain. About the land market, land cadastres, land leases, land valuations, and so on and so forth. All these bills here, they're already under consideration, and they're going to be considered in principle on the profile committee, and they're going to go to the first reading. Dear friends, in a collective sense in this room, we will accept such normative documents that will allow the right fundamental basis to resolve these problems. Third. I address you, regardless of the number of people present, but the authoritative deputies of all factions present here. Dear colleagues, the issue of land reform and the state of agriculture is intertwined. Yes, today's situation is too difficult, it's still multiplying by the extremely difficult weather conditions that occur on our land once every 300 years -- the effect of the double winter, the winter continues. It can go through, winter can go into summer, and you know what it means for both crops and for the economy, for the social situation, 18 million Ukrainian peasants. At 16 o'clock in the government, we gather with the participation of all the factions, with the participation of MPs who know about the problems of the village, as they say, not "by ear," we gather an over-responsible meeting to determine what will happen after 2003, when the village of law-supporting acts end. And even with these supporting laws, we have this situation. Laws have done their good work. Will it continue in 2004, will it be, or will it be, or will it be, or will it be enough? And the world practice of State support for agricultural production. The 90th year that everybody's referring to, 33 percent of the central budget, and its price in the 1990s and 2003s, you know, it's different numbers, different economies were different states, different comings. 33 percent of the budget went to agriculture, 3.2 in 2003 And we want it to develop at an accelerated rate. There's no such thing as miracles. This hall, and only this one, together with the government, should be found today, because tomorrow it will be late, the budget process under the 2004 Budget Code will begin in May. By May, we're not going to adopt these supportive laws, we're not going to look for mechanisms together in common, we're going to lose 2004 and we're going to lose the village forever. 18 million won't forgive us. And for the rest. Earth. Dear friends, the issues have risen from conservation protection, increased fertility. For several years, the Land Pay Act has been in operation, which has turned into land default benefits, but we collect 1.8 billion a year. Zero goes to the ground, zero goes to the Ukrainian niggers. Will we continue to endure this way? We've calculated, at least 30 percent of this indicator should finally be given to the Ukrainian multi-strength land, 35 million hectares of 41 are degraded, these are your numbers, that's what we honestly told you today. That's a huge problem. We're temporary on this earth, it doesn't belong to us, it belongs to a civilization, if we're talking at large. I don't say that any more to the Ukrainian nation. Dear friends, the melioration, the flattery, the landslide, the acidification and so forth, the limestone, the plastering, all that should be done at the level of the state, and only, it is not possible for the village council or the local authorities to take self-government separately. We ask you, we'll make these proposals, they'll walk away from the deputies, but that'll be our joint opinion. We have to support the year 2004 very soon in this room. Thank you for talking to me today. Appropriate decisions will be made. And the government will respond to them, because the issue of the earth is intertwined with social problems, which is worth it today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u129	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u130	Valentina Petrovna, I wrote down the first question, and we will be sure to resolve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-11-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, invited, the question that is being considered today is extremely relevant, especially important, because it is about the land and how much it is of an economic and political nature. The fact that we are mild in this matter does not well bear witness to the numerous appeals of our citizens, their pains, their tears. They come to both the deputies and the executive authorities and the courts. Sometimes just horrible things happen, people chase things around, and they can't find the truth. Why is this happening? Who should be responsible for this? One thing is, there has to be a rigid approach based on the law, and increased control by the central authorities of the state, but you have to understand another. Existing legislation needs to be improved. What's important is that they can't guarantee justice. This is the issue that has been given special attention today. The proposals made by the people’s deputies should be reflected in the appropriate decision to be taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This needs to be done by the Personal Committee. Thank you all for taking part in the day of government! Plenary sessions begin on April 15 at 10 a.m. And on April 14, at 3 p.m., Parliamentary hearings will be held on the 17th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. The morning session is closed. Thank you all!
