ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:04:08]] Registered -425 A total of 425 national deputies were registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. On Tuesday, September 16, we continue our consideration of the meetings schedule. The draft Act on Amendments to the Education Act of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on bringing Ukraine into conformity with the Higher Education Act]] We are now moving on to a simplified procedure. Reporter-temporary duty of Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine Zuravsky Vitaly Stanislavovich. The focal point will be the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Nikolayenko Stanislav Mikolayovich. The reporter's asking for three minutes. The narrator, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. You have a chart in front of you. The left is the Education Act, the center is the changes proposed in the Education Act and the expected results. Since there are three minutes in the shortcut, I'm going to try to stop at the main one. Well, first of all. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Education Act does not require additional funding from the State Budget. With the amendments to the Education Act, we bring terminology into line with the Higher Education Act of Ukraine, we complete a clear list of participants in the educational process, and we correct the powers of the central executive authority, i.e. the MON and other central executive authorities, with which the educational institutions are subordinated. [[Ministry of Education and Science]] This will complement and clarify the notion of educational and educational levels. With amendments to the Education Act of Ukraine, the notion of state-owned education on a competitive basis in public utility schools is strengthened. It is determined that full secondary education is compulsory. The responsibilities and responsibilities of other executive authorities, which are subordinated to educational institutions, are also expanded. It's about the formation and placement of a government order to train professionals with higher education in science and science. The adoption of this law will deepen democratic processes in education. So it's suggested that the heads of the educational institutions. What is in municipal property is chosen for competition and appointed to the Ministry of Education and Science of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea by appropriate district district district authorities for education and science. The approval of directors of higher educational institutions of the municipal private form of property is carried out in agreement with the Ministry of Education and Science. We ask the honourable national MPs to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u3	Please sit down, Vitaly Stanislavovich. I invite you to the report by Nikolainka Stanislav Mikolaiovich, head of the Committee on Science and Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. At its meeting on May 21, this year, the Committee on Science and Education considered a draft law amending the Education Act on the adoption of the Higher Education Act by the Government and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. In short, what I want to say is that, in principle, the question is absolutely not problematic, since the Higher Education Act has already been passed, and we have a contradiction. The Higher Education Act after the Education Act was passed almost six years later, i.e. the time has passed, and the Constitution after that was, i.e. we are that the fresh acquisition has already been adopted, legally adopted, we are transferring it, we are clarifying it into a basic law so that there is no conflict with either law. Therefore, we offer to accept it as a whole in the first reading. By the way, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority also supports this committee submission. At the same time, the committee and a number of articles proposed disagree. In particular, the amendment number 15 that you have on your hands, article 161. The government is proposing in the Education Act to abolish the fact that 10 percent of national income is directed towards education. You have a budget committee, the Ministry of Finance has distributed materials, and you can see how much and how much is spent from the domestic gross product on education. That's between 20 and 10 percent. And this standard is present in many countries of the world. Why? Because around the world, about 27 trillion dollars are spent, it's actually a total product of the world, and about 2.5-2.7 trillion goes to education. That's 10 percent of the world's average. If the government suggested replacing the term "national income" with "internal gross product", we would definitely be in favour, and subtracting it would be giving education today on an undirected basis. In fact, we have little funding for education today. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like another minute, because in the 5th I could talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u5	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u6	Why do I say that? You see, since 1997, we've had about 4 percent of the cost of an internal gross product for education. 4.3 4.1. This year, more than 5 percent are offered there. But it creates that crisis in education, because we need at least 10 percent, it's a world standard. We don't finance schools today, we don't have schools today, we don't have heat in most schools. You see, national MPs, what we're doing. In the draft budget, we propose to stop feeding the children of the 1-3 class. Where will the nation’s health be?Oh, my God! Where will healthy children be? Where will the healthy grandchildren be? We're in the draft budget this year, it's just in the form of a difference in this situation, and we're proposing not to raise the teacher's salary again. Since December 1, the government has been proposing to introduce 237 dollars of minimum wage. And a teacher after school. After completing the college, he will receive 221 bracelets. How's that? So the technique is going to get 20 more? Thus, this too is linked to this problem. Article 57. Yesterday I received a telephone call and received a call from citizens in the Chernigiv region. The township. They say that all the accounts of the district education department have been blocked because of the 57 - article debt in recent years. A similar situation in the Hersonian region, in Crimea, in Zaporozhye, and so on. Why before we adopt the budget, we do not adopt the law that recognizes the debts of the 57 articles and then draw up the schedules for their repayment and repayment, and take off the problem. So what I'd like to say is that we don't regenerate utilities to rural teachers. Therefore, this article is of great importance. It needs not to be canceled, but to be strengthened. Not 10 percent of national income, as it was in 1995-1996, was an internal gross product. And Article 18 of the Education Act, Amendment 6. The committee is also doubtful that this needs to be deleted. We're in line with the basic education law, Vitaly Stanislavovich, as the vases open. Only according to the government's decision. So to avoid doing this vacchanal, when private vases register as LTD, small, closed, stockholder societies, they go under the enterprise law and the result is that we can't control this system in a private structure. Therefore, we will be very considerate of him. So this is what the committee's proposing on the first reading to accept, and then we're going to fix all the shortcomings that I've talked about accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, let's get to the discussion, we need two pros, two against. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Please, your position is Yuri Anatolyevich. Prepare Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u8	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply grateful to the National MP Nikolaynko for raising the issue of reducing funding for education. I want to say that this is the attitude of the government of Viktor Yanukovic, Mr. Dmitri Tobacco, who is taking care of this block. And that's a very bad symptom. And so I'd like to suggest in the first reading that I accept, that I assign the committee to clean up these things right now. In addition, I think it is necessary to strengthen the responsibilities of the Ministry of Education and the agreement on the elimination of schools. What happened, Vitaly Stanislavovich, in Donetsk, where the Minister of Education writes the mayor of Donetsk: I explicitly forbid the 36th school to destroy, the Ukrainian school, and spit on the minister of education, it shouldn't be. This is where the Ministry's approval for the liquidation, for the reorganization of any school. This is what I'm bringing to Mr. Stanislaw Nikolayenka, and I'm also proposing that we eliminate schools so that there's no alternative to what the Donetsk mayor decides is that she's going to decide everything in this state. It also exists for folk money. And destroying Ukrainians in Ukraine is too much, even for the Donetsk mayor. So, dear friends, I think that this law, given what's happening today, you know from the Ministry of Nature Protection, has already separated natural resources. And it's all shared, all we can share right now in the President's Office. Vladimir Mikhailovich, don't you know about this? Everything they pay for is split up and created by the next committee or ministry. So so it doesn't happen, and I think it can be created, and the Ministry of Education, except for science, if someone needs a job right now and pays good money, so write a central executive body in the field of education and science. And then this president or this head of administration is going to change. Others will come, they will change, and nothing will have to change the law. These changes must be made. And certainly, I think I should point out that we also define the status of those students and the differences in the status of those students who, under contract, probably don't have to pay the scholarship, and we write that we are paying everyone a scholarship, and those who are free of charge, who are learning from the poor. On the first reading, I think you can accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u9	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please, Vladimir Puzakov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u10	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Amendments to the Ukrainian Education Act are now relevant. This was the case with the educational institutions, but not the one that was put out for discussion today. Isn’t education a source of trouble? But these are also personnel issues, and the material base, the funding of educational institutions, these are the problems of retired teachers, wages and a number of others. But there's no secret that education is amorphous today. So why do we treat this so lightly? I am very surprised by such changes. For example, in the text of the law, the word "Ministry of Education of Ukraine" should be replaced by the word "Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine" or the word "government" should be replaced by the word "state." It's really important. It would be better if these institutions were actually state-owned, so that the state would take care of them. Or let's take part 8, part 4 of the word "students, education workers" and replace the words "students, listeners, trainees, assistants, interns and students" and so on. It would be better if the state gave the student or the listener instead of the $40 scholarship and provided the dormitories. After completing the university, the student’s degree was not free, but it would provide employment. How is the student today provided with educational and artistic literature? But just crossing the threshold of a city library requires three bracelets. Does the minister know that a dictionary alone costs 100 dollars or more? What are the prices for subscriptions and methodical literature? The problem with the students is not to count, and we'll replace the word "student" with the word "listener," and we'll be fine. Article 12 says that the Ministry of Education fully provides textbooks, teaching aids, and methodological literature. It would be interesting to know the extent to which these textbooks are produced when students in our city alone, not to mention the rural school, are provided with only 50 percent, and in the eighth grade there is a complete disaster. Speaking of textbooks, I would like to ask Minister Kremen: Where and what school he graduated from, since all the textbooks in the new edition are full of falsifications of our history. And it's also interesting whether there's actually going to be free education in secondary and higher education institutions, as the law says, because today, from the first grade, a child spends money on all kinds of funds -- a class fund, a school fund, etc. As he completes his studies in colleges, the student wants to escape from Ukraine because he cannot live on a meager salary. So both the state and the Ministry of Education have a lot to work on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u11	Yes, National Deputy Vasil Bartkov, please. We only need someone against this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Ukraine’s educational legislation is undergoing constant changes. However, it seems that these changes do not improve but only make matters worse in the field of education. At best, they simply cannot promote positive changes. At first glance, a bill prepared by the Ministry of Education and Science and a bill submitted by the government to harmonize education and higher education laws pursues the objective of harmonization of legislation and does not pose any risks. But this is obviously not the case if you look at the content of this bill more deeply, and its individual positions are formulated in a way that allows the executive authorities to intervene freely in some aspects of the educational process of multiplicity and the diversity of the forms of ownership within which the educational institutions are operating today. This is the main point of this project. Now I'm going to put the point of my comments in order of order. The previous speaker has already rightly pointed out that it is not so important how to use one or the other terminology, but it is unclear that the Ministry of Science and Education is establishing the appropriateness of the documents on higher education and of the names provided in sub-paragraph 4 of the project. In the same sub-paragraph, it is unclear that the Ministry is promoting the employment of graduates of higher education institutions. In particular, the forms and volumes of this in the paws of "promotion" are incomprehensible. You and I are witnesses of how many thousands today, including young professionals, of yesterday’s facilitating graduates we received a job. For no one is the secret that the funds of the State Budget are very limited today, and so such a contribution should not be practical so that all graduates of universities, state and municipal property can be employed at the expense of the state. Let me be properly understood by the honourable voters, I don't mind having all the young professionals work, I'm just against writing another declaration into this law that will not be implemented in practice. I cannot agree with the statement contained in the explanatory note to the bill that the adoption of it does not require any expense from the State Budget. It is not clear why the Ministry of Education should approve the statutes of private ownership. What are the legal consequences of this failure? How will this affect your registration? There are many questions and areas for abuse of officials. As a result, I propose to take these proposals into account. But in general, with these comments and comments, colleagues can adopt the law in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u13	Yes, dear colleagues, who's against it? School's against it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u14	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. And I'll explain why, I'll explain why I'd like to, by supporting the proposals made by the committee, I'd like to vote in favour of a second time, to refer to the committee to work out, to make these proposals a proposal that's not harmful, but rather to strengthen, in principle, that we're re-issued quality products. Because, well, really, it's already been told by the predecessors about the complete vacchanal of government in defining private-private structure of the university -- it's a higher education facility. That's the first one. The second is that sometimes because of a change in terms, they try to either substitute ideas for positions, or just move away from problems. Well, I'd like to emphasize in more detail the 57th article. Well, it's a shame at all, because a person who lives in a village and communicates with rural intelligence understands that everything begins with this article: compensation for utilities, which we constantly shift from one shoulder to another, but the main thing that suffers is the bottom chain, the village teacher. A rural teacher suffers - suffering children who do not get a quality professional level of knowledge. So once again, I would like to emphasize. The initiative can be approved. But I would urge the National Deputies to re-send it for the first time. You don't have to cut it because it's a good initiative. But if we take the basis now and rewrite the bill again, it's just unfair. And it'll be more honest just to send him to the committee, to give professionals the opportunity to work -- and to produce a normal, quality product, that is, those amendments that won't hurt, and, specifically, I've already mentioned the differences that have been discussed here, and in particular, the committee's management. Because we can talk a lot here and we can talk about how schools are closing down, schools are opening up, what's going on in higher, secondary education, but problems need to be recorded. Of course, we need to discuss them, but we need to take pictures, not come to the Supreme Council, offer adjustments that only cause differences, only make things worse. That is, adjustments that make things worse and more difficult. They have no right at all to propose in Parliament's walls. So I encourage my colleague to just send out the first reading again, to agree with the committee and committee, and I think in a short period of time the Supreme Council will propose a normal quality product that we can vote on immediately, taking the basis of the first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. We will make a decision taking into account the discussion that will take place on the day of the vote. All right, you got it? Thank you for that. A draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the collection of government duties is being announced for consideration. Justice Minister Pasenyuk’s deputy secretary, Mr. Aleksandar Mihajlovich, in the absence of a minister on mission, will be the co-rapporteur of the Committee, Vasil Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko. The committee proposes this time limit: a report and a report within five minutes. Well, we're going to have a two-for-two-again discussion. Please, Alexander Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u16	Dear Alexander Mikhailovich. Honorable National MPs. In the course of judicial proceedings, the courts of general jurisdiction, including the courts of commerce, decide on the revenue of the State-of-the-art budget. In addition, courts and other officials decide to raise funds in favor of the State, such as fines. The problem has arisen because of the fact that there is virtually no retractor in the executive introductions of State or budget spending, i.e. government - duty fines. At the same time, legislation does not define a state authority that would act as a retractor in such executive implementations on behalf of the State and would be given appropriate powers. Considering that, in accordance with article 11 of the Law on the Enforcement of the Contractor, only a natural or legal person may be a party to the implementation of the implementing instrument, a State or a budget is not a party to the implementation, i.e. a retractor in the concept defined by the Law on Executive Implementation. In accordance with article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement of Forced Enforcement of Decisions of Courts and Other Authorities, officials in Ukraine rely on the State Executive Service. In accordance with article 14, paragraph 6, of the Ukrainian Law on the Tax System, government duties are tax and congregation taxes, compulsory payments. Taking into account the stated rules of law and taking into account that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 9 of the Law on the Enforcement of Enforcement, the tax authorities are also empowered under the legislation to enforce decisions on the enforcement of State duties, it is therefore proposed to amend Article 248 of the Code of Civil Procedure of Ukraine and Article 116 of the master procedural code of Ukraine, which provides that implementing documents on the collection of State duties are sent by the court to the local tax authorities. In addition, it is proposed to amend article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Enforcement in order to determine that the decisions of the courts on the collection of government duties from taxpayers are made by tax authorities through banks and other financial institutions, and when these funds are not in the accounts of debtors, such executive letters are sent to the executive service and are already being carried out by the executive service of the Ministry of Justice in the enforcement order. So we're proposing to define a mechanism for bringing government duties into the state budget. Because, I said, in court decisions, it's practically written: To collect government duties and everything. The adoption of this project regulates the procedure for implementing the implementing documents on State-to-State-to-State-to-State-to-State-to-State-to-execution and to act on behalf of the State. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u17	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vassil Vasilovich Onopenko, chairman of the Committee on Legal Policy, will make a joint statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u18	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! The committee considered the bill. It was introduced and developed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and we generally support it, but we have some observations. In particular, the project proposes that the authorities of the State Tax Service be subject to public-customs decisions. And a second offer. Identify bodies that speak on behalf of a state in executive implementations that have a State, or the funds at which it is charged. That's a second position. We support the reporter, Alexander Mikhailovich Pasenyuk, and we have no comments. [[I mean the committee.]] Indeed, we need to identify clearly who on behalf of the State is the puller: whether it's the Ministry of Justice, whether it's a tax structure, or some other authority, a government body. But there is a question as to who should make the decision. Because today the Ministry of Justice has an executive service, a government executive service that is subordinated to the Ministry of Justice, which has an appropriate law on enforcement and a law on these organs. The question is, why are the tax authorities still in charge of executing court decisions today? Well, maybe it'll be the courts of general jurisdiction or the courts of commerce. Therefore, there is a warning, and when it comes to the fact that the executive letters of State fees are sent by the court to the local tax office, the authorities of the State’s executive branch should do so. Service. There's another problem. We've analyzed the State Tax Law, which states that the tax service should be in charge of paying taxes rather than executing court decisions. [[Article 2, in particular]] Hence, there is disagreement with the tax law itself. I'm not saying that there's such a proposal in the same bill, if there's no money in the debtor's account at the bank, then this executive document is sent to the government executive services. What, then, should the tax service do? I mean, without rejecting the idea, the committee supports it. And we think that on the first reading we can adopt this bill, and then on the second reading, we'll make the right proposals and polish it to the level that it needs. In general, he deserves attention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u19	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. On the board, indicate the names of the National Deputies who have signed up for the performance. Andrew School, get ready for Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u20	The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. I, you know, listened to Vasil Vasilovich's speech, he was in such a soft, tolerant form, but he was keen enough to ask the question: Why do I need extra tax services? You know, that's a rhetorical question. Because our tax service is always too small for any function. Because the tax service's job is not to collect taxes at all, it's a secondary or maybe even a third of the task of this structure. Its main task is to strangle businesses, to strangle entrepreneurs who, by circumstances or by command, are said to be in honest or principled positions. If they're not in that political structure, they're on the wrong side of the street, they're on the wrong side of the street, they're coming in, they're taking everything they have, and they need unlimited powers to do that. I think if, you know, Vasil Vasilovich, remove tax functions from here, that is, the functions that she requires here, namely, performing functions, to carry out court decisions. Then this bill will lose interest, that is, lose interest in this bill to those who push it. Because there's no difference in taking a job in the executive structure. Shipwrights actually have a lot of work to do, they're loaded and they're often limited in their rights. And it's necessary to regulate these rights, but I can't understand why judges translate their duties into tax inspectors, the tax service in general will then be expanded, the possibilities increased, and then they won't just fictitiously create cases, conduct them through courts, and personally monitor the execution of a court decision, that is to say, come up with this court decision and execute it. It's not enough that masks, helmets, and shields break into any enterprise to remove documentation and prove the criminal activity of this enterprise, so they're going to break into the apartment, into the apartments of those entrepreneurs that were decided by the court that they were going to pay a fine or something. So they're still going to have the extra power to shut down and tear down entrepreneurs. I don't think the executive service should be delegated here. No, if they're too many, you can say that. Say, let's give up, let's just dissolve this executive service, let's pass all the functions to the tax office, let's put another authority in there. You got it. Tax police in particular. Militia is a powerful structure, and it will work. Punish and obey. I think if work could be passed on to the court. Then it would be a complete battle kit that would accept, judge, judge, and only to give up the detention of prisoners, perhaps another structure. Although the tax system works in this direction, it can take over the functions of the State Department from the execution of sentences. That's why I, the national MP, am addressing you. If this amendment goes through Parliament, with this point going through Parliament, we're just going to create a complete tax monster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u21	Thank you. So you're against it. Please, Vladimir Kirilovich. Prepare Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u22	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Honorable colleagues, government duties are among the national congregations and payments. There is no legal body that acts as a retractor. Clearly, the State budget cannot do that. The question is, Who? Indeed, this issue needs to be settled legislatively. But what do we have to offer? That the tax office should be the payee, that is, the court’s decision-making function should be performed by the tax administration. I think she has quite a function, I would even say that the lack of balance of rights and obligations, more rights than duties, although duties are also very serious and they are difficult to carry out, the tax service cannot deal with the enforcement of court decisions. I think we should come together on this. What should the executive service do? There is a State executive service that has to carry out judicial decisions. And you don't have to pass these functions on to the tax administration. That is why this bill cannot be adopted in this way. Add: It is not excluded that if we adopted such a bill, taxpayers could arrange fictitious trials and then collect duties. There is a danger. So let's make a record in the law of not taxing, but the executive service, the State Executive Service, should be in charge of the execution of court decisions, including the levying of duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, who is behind this bill? Yuri Anatolyevich, please. Two against. Well, it's two against it, but it takes two to support it. Please, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u24	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! You know, supporting our government is very hard, so I'm going to be looking for something white in the dark, although it's very hard to find after today's EP and the speech today by the First Vice Prime Minister, who I think I have to write a resignation application today, because he saw that it wasn't just a matter of knocking on parliament, that he didn't even allow it to himself, perhaps, to his own wife in the kitchen, and he was in parliament anyway! And no one has ever apologized for him. He hasn't apologized to himself yet. So I'm not going to protect the government, I'm just going to talk about the rational grain that's here. I am very pleased that Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko began for his health and, unfortunately, for his peace, because it is necessary for the government to rework this bill in its first reading, of course. And only things that are smart can be supported here. The law of Ukraine "On Executive Conduct" in article 11 after part 2 completes a new part of such content, and here goes the first four lines that they propose that executive conduct, followed by the State, or the withdrawal of the amount of revenue of the budget is the body whose decision is made by the court, or the body that has made such a decision in accordance with the law. Period. cannot be supported by the fact that there is a tax authority and cannot be supported by the amendment to article 348 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, which gives additional powers to the State Tax Service, which has a completely different task, and these tasks are defined by the State Tax Service Act. I can say that so far no authority in the State has demanded or controlled the State Tax Service. As a result, it is the most corrupt service that collects between 20 percent and 20 percent of VAT, specifically. And this is today, the Attorney General of Piscoon is closing his eyes because he's the outpost of this service, the government. The budget committee also closes its eyes, and the government pretends that it does not know what is being done there. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich here is only part of it, but it's if the government changes the deal or gives up part of its proposals, because in general, what's written here is not allowed to vote. It's only for the part I read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u25	Dear Vasil Ivanovich, People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u26	Dear colleagues! Today's debate on this bill is, in my personal opinion, still a little, so to speak, somewhat emotional. It is my understanding that this bill proposes to distribute the function of who will walk and collect property if the payer is unable to pay. In this case, it is assumed that these things will be handled by one: in this case, the executive service. That logic can be accepted. And based on that logic, I support this bill. The comments I have are about how it will be done. And, unfortunately, I'm sorry. Unfortunately, I am troubled by the following: I am disturbed by the specific experience of debt-related property descriptions. [[Come on, my dears.]] We often do this as follows: the company is visited by representatives of the relevant State executives, along with the OMON sealing the store, sealing the finished products. Absolutely not in the link: how much an enterprise must do. It's all sealed up, sorry, maybe for not a very correct function -- the most delicious. And based on this logic, after that, an enterprise that can actually stop its production activity is forced to run for weeks later to document that it has the right to enter the warehouse, that it can take the compendium, the raw materials, reprocessing, release the finished product and the finished product, eventually pay the debts it has before the State. And based on that logic, I believe that we should think more about how to make sure that anyone who comes on behalf of a State does not stop an enterprise does not create a problem that causes the enterprise to stop. Hence, debt for all things grows not only in front of the State, but also in front of the same workers and beyond. I therefore believe that, in principle, there is a problem, namely, the proportionality of the assets described with the debtor's debts. The second is the simplification of the work on the property described, which is subject to compulsory recovery against those debts owed to the debtor, including the State. Otherwise, we create a base for abuse, when a specific official can quickly form documents, can slowly, can allow the compilers to not allow. And in fact, we are faced with a situation where an official who is no longer, so to speak, a specific State and dictates the conditions of the debtor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u27	Yes, Sergey Ivanovich Drogunzov, please, and we will finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u28	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Today, all those who spoke from the point of view used the discussion to express their position on a variety of issues. For example, Karmazin used it to request the resignation of the First Deputy Prime Minister. I'm going to take the same opportunity and I want the resignations of ministers who have a special, different position from the government on common or single economic space. But the main thing is, we have a weak executive service. The Executive Service of the Ministry of Justice does not even have a machine gun at its disposal. And the executive service, i.e. the tax service, has armed rifles, grenade launchers, machine guns, military, so - called tax police. Then any debt will be eliminated. Yes, if we want to beat, to whom should we assign, to the executive service of the Minist, or to the tax administration? Make your own conclusions. I want to say that, unfortunately, we have an executive service that is in line to implement a court decision, and I would say so gently, completely indifferent and completely formal. A specific example. In the village of Kotlarka, Popilnian district of the Žitomir region, one of the tenants’ debts was described as cattle, a young bull’s - eyed cattle. In this way it was completely illiterate, not registered in a notary. And now it's required that this livestock actually be paid off by another tenant. But I don't care about renters, I don't care about renters, I don't care about renters. The rest is taken to the peasants, and what does it mean to take the sown material, the sown fund, or the young cattle into the peasants? This means to root out the future of this village, of farming. How can we formally approach this issue? Well, there's a debt, we need to figure out how it came into being -- no one's handling it. What do we owe this debt? Nobody understands, they just describe and go ahead, bad guy. So, the Justice Department doesn't have its own militia, but it needs to be seen as well as the railroads to give their own troops. And the tax administration has a police force, and it will be without any help from the Ministry of Internal Affairs to beat up its own, not its own, but their foreign debts. So I'd like to say, I think we can accept it on the first reading, but we need to take this project seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, consider a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation that has been completed. Decisions will be made in the proper order. A draft law on amendment and recognition of certain legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Deputy Justice Minister Alexander Pasenyuk. Carmazin will be the narrator, please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u30	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The project proposes to amend Ukraine’s legislative acts from 1991 to 1996, particularly on our part. and the competences of the authorities of the State and local self-government authorities, the order of appointment, the discharge or election of officials of these bodies, etc., and the terminology of these acts in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. In addition, a number of legislative acts are recognized by the draft as having become invalid because of their lack of conformity with the Constitution. The project consists of two parts. The first part includes amendments and additions to 77 legislative acts, including amendments to three codes, 45 laws, 22 Supreme Council regulations, 2 basics of legislation, 5 Cabinet decrees. The second part includes a list of 53 legislative acts that need to be repealed. These legislative acts have been adopted in the Constitution and are accepted in the Constitution of Ukraine and are not in conformity with the Constitution. The implementation of this law does not require additional funding from the State Budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u31	Yes, thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Vasil Vasilovich. I understand, but, Valentina Petrovna, we can't do this. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. We're following a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u32	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Legal Policy considered a draft law on amendments and recognition in such a way that some Ukrainian legislative acts were not valid in connection with the adoption of the Constitution by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine No. 2535. As has already been pointed out, the project aims to amend 77 legislative acts to bring them into conformity with the Constitution. I would like to point out that the changes to a number of legal acts are usually of a terminology and are subject to changes in the names of public authorities and local authorities, their officials, etc. For example, it is proposed that article 8 "Determining the legal regime of the State border" of the Ukrainian State Border Act should be drafted according to which the legal regime of the State border is the order of crossing the State border, the navigation and residence of Ukrainian and foreign military vessels and warships in the territorial sea and the internal waters of Ukraine, the entry of foreign non-military vessels, non-military ships into the internal waters and ports in Ukraine and their stay in Ukraine, the maintenance of the state border, the introduction of various industrial and other activities on the state border. The draft also calls for the repeal of 53 legislative acts, such as the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Soviet Presidency decree on the approval of the order of pardon of citizens convicted by the courts of the Ukrainian RSR, the Supreme Council Presidency decree on the position of referees of the Ukrainian deputy of the Ukrainian RSR, the CSD law on the establishment of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Ukrainian RSR, the Ukrainian RSR law on the Presidential of the Ukrainian RSR, the Cabinet of Ministers decree on the steps taken to complete the commercialization of enterprises and organizations of state trade, food and services, decrees and others that have lost their validity, and today are effectively confusing and inconsistent in the various legislative acts of Ukraine. And so today's national MPs are being beaten, and all the users of our network are confused. So I think that the proposed bill is just the first step towards bringing legislation systematization, and it is the step that needs to be supported and adopted both in the first and second readings, as you will already see, as possible, the committee proposes to do so, it will clear the legal field of Ukraine and bring it into line with the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u33	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u34	I don't see any political ground here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u35	Names of the national deputies on the board, please. Andrew School, please speak. Prepare Volodymyr Cherniak. Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u36	I wanted to emphasize. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. I wanted to point out that, really, this is about terminology, changing terms, changing terminology, but. Yet, on a large list, there is only one list that is high enough, large enough, and practical when taken, 70 percent is, in fact, a change that has matured, which actually makes confusion. But if we're talking about the state border, if we're going to edit an article about the state border, we need to be clear here, mention the situation that we have with the Dniester AES, and make clear what the state border is, how does it form, what is regulated? So we're talking about the state, the protection of the border, now we're talking about, the truth is, the accession of Ukraine to the EP, and maybe we're actually going to look at the borders of Ukraine, rename them, and so on, but it's in the future, even though it's tough and scary. But now I wanted to be specific. The state border is now defined by the river’s forerunner or, if it is not shipping, by the river’s centre. And there's an amendment. The amendment is not clear enough when it says that the state border runs through the old water supply center if it has been artificially expanded in front of hydrotechnical facilities. And in this situation, we can say that it's vaguely written, because in front of which hydroships are regulated, what is regulated by the old reservoir, especially when it naturally changed its course. And the situation that we have with the GES of Dniestravska gives us reason for reflection. Especially after 11 courageous Moldovan bordermen have captured our facility, we are losing virtually control of a possible strategic structure, a hydrotechnic facility protected by the law of Ukraine. In particular, we are no longer able to control the state of technology to the extent possible. And that's why there's enough of these in this bill. So I would like to point out that no one in the first, second, third reading can explicitly accept it here, unfortunately, with all due respect to the previous speaker. Here we can only now claim the first reading with the fact that the things that don't fit out of there are further removed, processed, edited, and only then will the Supreme Council be able to get out of there for the next reading. And I'd like to point out that, of course, the business is needed. You don't have to root it out. But very often with good intentions, we know where the road is headed. And I didn't want us to go this way with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u37	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Boris Bespaly will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, it is not difficult to speak on this bill. Indeed, there is a need to refresh legislation from time to time, to clean up the legislative field, to systematize legislation. It's practically just that we're throwing out the legislative mess right now. There are many things that are out of date both in terms of terminology and, in fact, we have to cancel, taking into account the laws, the codes that we have adopted. It's a normal, routine job that we have to do. I only have one surprise and one warning. I'm surprised. Why do we bring our legislation into line with the Constitution with such a huge delay? It's been quite a while now, and it probably had to be done a long time ago. I think it's reprimand for both the Justice Department and the Supreme Council. Perhaps we should, indeed, conduct more frequent inventory of legislation, a certain revision, correct what has been done and how it relates to what has been adopted long ago and is still in the legislative field. And a warning. I support the school's deputy in terms of what doesn't have to be rushed even here, we need to adopt the bill in the first reading, we need to read it even more carefully, read the text, the subtext and the context, look for some legislative fleas and catch them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u39	Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine and Valentina Seminouk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u40	Boris Bespalij, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Well, I agree with the first idea that somehow this bill goes through, how long? Seven years after the adoption of the Constitution. He's late, I think, for at least six years. It is also surprising that the government that supports constitutional reform does not call off this bill because it is not known what will be in the Constitution if the government's dream of changing it happens. For my part, I think that the Constitution needs not so much change today as protection, and in this part I would support it, if not for one, extremely dangerous, in my opinion, a moment where this law cannot be allowed to be allowed and close to even the first reading. In this law, paragraph 15 proposes to recognize that the Ukrainian RSR law on the President of Ukraine has become invalid. I understand when it comes to changing the name of this law, but to admit that it has become invalid! I just want to say that this is the only legal act at the level of law that was in force at the time of Leonid Danilovich Kuchma's election as President for the first term in 1994 that was in effect in 1999, when he was elected for the second term, and should have been in force before the next President was elected, because it is in this law that there is clearly a rule that the same person cannot be elected by the President for the third term. If we recognize this law in a way that has become invalid, we will have a situation where lawyers from the Bank will have some quasi-substantial talk about the possibility of a third term for it, because he said he was elected in 1994 under the old Constitution, under this Constitution he was chosen for the first term and so on. So a perfectly clear and transparent situation with a law that prohibits one and the same person from going on the third term, and this law continues to work all the years of independence, we will bring about a certain conflict, some doubts, we will create a new discussion, and we see how we are able to blow up the situation, how we are about to have all kinds of referendums, and we are going to get into the endless term of the old President. I'm not surprised that we have such a standard set aside as an accident in such a huge act, where it would be extremely difficult to catch it, but I don't believe in the coincidence of such things, or at least I can say that nothing is calculated as a coincidence, given that the probe has already taken place. So, dear colleagues, I don't think we can vote this project as a basis until paragraphs 14 and 15 are deleted. Thank you for your attention. And I hope you understand this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u41	Valentina Petrovna Seminouk, please. From the Control Commission, the head of the Privatization Control Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u42	Dear colleagues. Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, this morning we celebrated the memory of Georgia Gongadze for a moment of silence. At 6: 30 p.m. in the Mayan of Independence, members of the opposition forces will honor the memory at the site where the tent was broken. I'm saying, there was a man -- there was a problem, there was no man -- there was no problem. If you look at the bill that's being submitted in relation to the Special Supervisory Board, I want to say, it's proposed to review the mandate and narrow it down to, well, I'd say at least leave it at 1 percent. This tells us what: You reduce the authority - no one will get bored here, no one will check who cleaned the object or how much. Similarly today, it is proposed that the bill narrow down the mandate of the Special Monitoring Commission. I understand that even today's session is painful for the executive branch, because the Special Supervisory Board is picking up archival documents starting on the first day of privatization. And if ministers, prime ministers, deputy prime ministers sometimes write in response to the Special Supervisory Commission, which owes the State budget, budget or payment to the sale of state property, I understand that the Special Supervisory Commission is obstructing. That's why the Cabinet of Ministers today is offering to narrow it down. And I think the next step is to shut it down. I mean, there won't be a problem. Therefore, honourable colleagues, and the proposal set out in the draft law on page 13 concerning the powers of the Special Supervisory Commission, cannot be accepted because, first, it is a narrowing of the powers of that body created by Parliament, which is in accordance with article 10 of the law on the privatization of property and the position that is approved here, in this sessionary room and when voting on the composition of a special control committee, was granted the status of the committee. And we don't need to narrow down our powers. The Special Monitoring Commission today, regardless of political views, makes a unanimous decision: If an object has been stolen, return illegally. And we will, of course, act within the framework of those defined by the law and the Constitution of Ukraine and there is no need to restrict authorization, so I ask on page 13, paragraph 33 of these powers to be removed, we do not need to restrict our powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u43	Yes, please, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, from the committee, a warning.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u44	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I will first answer Vladimir Kirilovich and some MPs who said that the amendments were too late. In fact, I'd like to do it earlier, but you mean that we've done it all the time when we've adopted codes, even codes, and here we have to thank both Kabmin and Minust, who are still making these amendments. I wish we hadn't made a mistake today, Yuri Anatoliyovich, apparently in the absence of time, and others who were speaking also didn't pay attention. Look, from a legal point of view. There is a proposal to repeal 45 laws by one law, and let's say there are 22 Supreme Council decrees, but we know that laws are adopted by a separate procedure, and regulations are taken by a separate procedure. So I would like to point out that obviously the Supreme Council's rulings and other acts of the Supreme Council should be repealed, not by law, but by the Supreme Council's own decrees. Therefore, the decrees there do not give us any doubt, for they bring the power of the law. I think in the second reading, let it be written in the transcript, my esteemed colleagues. That's exactly what we're counting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u45	Dear colleagues! A review of the draft Law on Amendments and Recognition has been completed in connection with the adoption of the Constitutions of Ukraine. This is document number 2535. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils is being announced for consideration. Deputy Justice Minister Mr. Pasenyuk Alexander Mihajlovich. Please prepare for Boris Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u46	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The draft law drafted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Cabinet of Ministers was designed to eliminate the inadequacy of certain legislative acts of Ukraine by a new edition of the Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, which was adopted on July 11, last year. So part of the second and third articles of the 6th Act was that a local council member elected by the Secretary-General of the Rural, Village, City Council, Head, Deputy District, District, District Council is working on an appropriate council on a permanent basis and cannot reconcile service activities with other work, including on public grounds, except for teaching, scientific and creative outside of work, and also engage in entrepreneurial activities. profit unless otherwise provided by law. It is therefore proposed that, in accordance with these provisions, the Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils should be amended accordingly, the Law on Entrepreneurship of Ukraine and on Associations of Economics, which proposes to include members of local councils who work on a permanent basis on the council, that they cannot be officials of the authorities of the boards of associations. In addition, it is envisaged that the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils of the Ukrainian Militia and Professional and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families will be brought into line. The project also proposes the introduction of terminology changes to the Ukrainian Police Act in part of the words "the council of national deputies" and "the national MP", as well as a new edition of part three of article 5 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Their Families, which aims to regulate the status of members of local councils and military personnel. It is also proposed that Ukraine’s law on the status of local council members should be brought into line with article 7, section 2, of the Ukrainian Anti - Corruption Act. In addition, the project provides for changes in the order in which members of the local councils are suspended for a period of time, in view of drawing them to administrative responsibility for corruption. That is, there is no need for agreement because this law, namely the law on the status of a member of local councils, is not specifically provided for in the order in which members of local councils are drawn to administrative responsibility. The adoption of this law will help to eliminate the conflict between legislative acts in connection with other activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u47	Yes, thank you, too. Please sit, Alexander Mikhailovich. Boris Bespaliy, secretary of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u48	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on April 2, 2003, reviewed the bill and proposed that the bill be adopted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. I'm only stressing for one moment in connection with this, because if. That we won't support it if there's such a proposal to accept it immediately in general. Well, since we're counting on it to be accepted as a basis, you're going to be able to make your own proposals about, let's say, such a more careful legal order of this document, because maybe this kind of reconciliation is going to be necessary. From the point of view, I'd like to stop at one where our Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council, and a report from the Cabinet of Ministers. It is the lack of regulation of this law regarding the status of urban, rural, and rural heads. I just want to pay attention in this regard to your esteemed colleagues that this category of officials of local self - government. The Constitution of Ukraine, by the way, I'm paying attention to maybe even the Ministry of Justice in the first place, predicts that there should be a law that specifically regulates the status of rural, rural and urban heads. Unfortunately, there is no such law or bill today. And this category of officials of local self - government is now in fact in a number of situations simply defenseless. As far as we know. Protecting people and self - control can be done by those who are protected themselves. And Ukraine, for example, is driven by literally a wave of callbacks, well, basically groundless urban, rural and rural heads on the ground of their conflicts, as is often the case with local government administrations. So the adoption of this law, I think, will also move us to take a closer look at the problem, not just by adopting this, to a large extent, technical law, but by speeding up the law that would generally regulate all aspects of the status of rural, rural and urban heads. With these comments taken into account, the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u49	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. On the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up for the discussion. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. You'll be out of town? Turn on the microphone, please, Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u50	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I support Boris Bespalogo's speech on the adoption of this law in the first reading. But I would like to emphasize and consult with you whether we are doing the right thing as a whole when, in part, the third article of the 5th Law on the Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families states that military personnel are elected to election positions on local councils on which they work on a permanent basis are seconded to the relevant local councils with a leave of service. The term of office of an elected military officer in the local council on which he is serving on a permanent basis is included in the service of military service for years. After the completion of the term of office in the local council, a military officer is assigned to the military formation, where he served for further election to serve at the post of not less than the one he served before his election to the local council. You know, there are huge cuts now among both the military and the new meth targets in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And that's why there's a big question here, is it that we need to write down the law on social and legal protection of military personnel, especially now that they absolutely need protection. In addition, the amendment to the Anti-Corruption Act, I would like to draw the attention of the National Deputies, the Head of the Supreme Council, which is now simply a nuisance of Ukrainian participation in corruption. Literally, these authorities, which have the right to draft the protocols that they make, attract persons without sufficient reason, thus almost half of which are closed by the courts. And that's why this law needs to be amended in general, and I'd like to ask the Committee on Law Enforcement and the Committee on Legal Policy to stop the propaganda in the fight against corruption. So it's suggested that I amend the Anti-Corruption Act, and I wouldn't do that. And if you make it, it means putting it in a completely different way, because it just hurts the state today. In general, I agree with those suggestions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u51	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Will Andrew School be performing?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u52	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština In the case of exclusion in the second sentence of section 2 of article 7 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, the words “if consent is to bring them to administrative responsibility for acts of corruption”, the second sentence is desirable to read as follows: “Decision on the permanent cessation of parliamentary powers or the dismissal from election office shall be taken by the appropriate council at the plenary.” But there are no grounds in article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, such as the permanent cessation of parliamentary powers when a deputy is called to account for corruption. Such grounds are not provided for in chapter 4 of the above - mentioned Law of Ukraine, which provides the basis for guarantees of parliamentary activity. In the case of the adoption of part two of the seventh article in such a tract as the draft Law of Ukraine, the deputies of the local councils will be deprived of the only possibility of protecting their status today from the aberration of certain structures. In general, the local councils today have only declared protection. For example, according to article 31 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, in the event of a violation of a member of the local criminal court, the relevant council is only reported on such facts. That's it. But it would be proper to protect this article by saying: “Acquittal to a member of the local council is given appropriate counsel. ” Labour rights of members of local councils are also improperly protected. For example, according to paragraph three of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, if a deputy is released from work, it should be notified to the appropriate council. But what does this give the MP? Nothing. The board was informed, and the deputy was dismissed. Perhaps it would be right for the appropriate council to agree with the dismissal of a member of parliament. The integrity of the rights of the deputies of the relevant local councils today gives certain structures, parties and other bodies an active influence on the work of the deputies in order to lobby their interests, including against the interests of the territorial community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u53	Thank you, too. Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko's faction. Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u54	The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. Although the previous speaker here has raised a very interesting issue, although it does not specifically refer to this bill, I would also like to say a few words about it. The immunity of a member of the local council, there was an attempt here, in this bill, to protect its quality only, but the integrity of a lower-level legislator, that is, the local level, distorts their activity. For example, the Lviv region can always serve as an example. In the Lviv region, there were quite interesting interactions in the district council: first, one decision is made one day, and then one night, one night, one night, one day, one day, the other, and the other, the other, the other, the other, people are calling off their votes about joining a parliamentary group, they're calling off their votes, they're calling off their votes, they've been issued for or against a bill. This is a pattern of how the forces that can influence processes work. Here the forces, this can be clearly said, is a regime that, of course, is like the bone in the throat and the MPs of the people, and the deputies of the district, district, local and city councils. So they're trying to reduce, minimize, simplify their ability to influence them. And once again, I agree. Indeed, anticorruption activities need to be recorded, for this is simply inappropriate. The bets are off. But it still needs to be improved by the law on the status of a local council member, because the more secure he is, the more calm we can be in the region, because behind each of these defenders is a nation, they have chosen him, he is responsible for him, and he is responsible for his actions to them. And we're still involved in this process, of course, in a strong right. Although the subject here touches the narrow, nationalists who work in executive structures. Indeed, this situation is not well settled. If the example of the military is a single example, the same can be said with the police, the same can be said with all the structures that delegate or dispatch their representatives to the Supreme Council and to serve in the local councils. That's why I would call for this bill in the first reading. The easiest thing to do is to put it first again, but it's small and small. So we can take the basis, cut off all the unnecessary things that were there for unknown or known reasons, and then we can only then be determined by necessity or unnecessaryness. That's why I'm going to make the most of it. Although the ideal would be the first to work more productively on this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u55	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u56	Dear colleagues! In connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, it was necessary to make a number of changes to other bills. In this regard, I support the proposal to adopt the bill in the first reading. At the same time, in the process of preparing for second reading, attention should be paid to such important points. First of all, ensure the guarantees of the MPs' activities of local councils. We must admit that even after our adoption of the Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, they are far from guaranteed guarantees of their parliamentary activities. This is a very important and painful question, and we need to think about how to design mechanisms to guarantee parliamentary activity. Members of local councils are known to be under intense pressure — political, administrative, financial, and even criminal. And it is our duty to guarantee their activities. Secondly, I think we should agree with the observation made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to which Deputy Carmazin has already been paying attention, regarding the need to anticipate responsibility for corruption not only by the heads of district and district councils, but also by rural, rural and urban councils. That's not what they're called. We are indeed making changes to the Law on Corruption, and we must count the heads of all the local councils. And the third point that we're talking about today. I also want to put an emphasis on it, which is very important: the unresolved issue of the status of urban, rural and rural heads. In our adopted law, we did not regulate the status of urban, rural, and rural heads. They're defenseless, and they're trying to get rid of them. Local administrations do not usually like the heads that do not like, try to remove them from office, and again, there are no mechanisms to protect urban, rural, and rural heads. And we may have to adopt a special law on this matter, or at least make changes to the law we have adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, the review of the draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils has been completed. Decisions will be made in the proper order. The draft Act on Amendments and Recognition of Certain Laws and Other Legal Acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine is being announced. The reporter is Deputy Justice Minister Alexander Mikhailovich Pasenyuk. Please, Alexander Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u58	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorable National MPs. This law has been drafted by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine to carry out the Prime Minister's mandate to carry out legislative acts and other acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, which was adopted in a new edition. The draft law proposes to amend up to 10 legislative acts. Yes, especially in the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies, it is proposed that national MPs be included in the list of persons who cannot be officials of the authorities of the management of the company, which will be in line with article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of National Deputies. Part 3 of article 5 of the Ukrainian Act on Social Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families is proposed to be carried out in accordance with article 10, part 6, of the Act. Part of the definition of the position to which the military officer returns after the completion of the term of office of the Ukrainian national deputy. Article 43 of the Law on the Retirement of Military Servants and Persons of the Chief and Private Staff of Internal Affairs proposes to supplement the new part by which the pension of a military officer, elected by a national deputy at the time when he reaches the age of his parliamentary powers or service of years, is calculated on the basis of the earnings of a working national deputy. In addition, the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of 26 December 1992 on the income tax of citizens is proposed to supplement the provision relating to the exemption from taxation of funds paid to the Ukrainian National Deputies as compensation for the expenses associated with the exercise of their duties, since, pursuant to Article 6 of the Seventh Article of this Decree, it is prohibited to impose other additional benefits on the income tax of citizens not provided for in this decree from 26 December. The benefits can only be determined by adding to this decree. The bill proposes to comply with article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and the breastplate of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. By decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the approval of the provision for the granting and use of services to national deputies of residential premises, it is proposed that they be brought into line with article 35 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of National Deputies, which regulates the provision of housing for Ukrainian national deputies. The Law on State Secret proposes to expand the list of persons who, after they have taken office in writing, are granted access to the State’s secret of all degrees of secrecy. It is also proposed that changes be made to the position of the Provisional Parliamentary Commission of the Supreme Council on the fight against organized crime, corruption, bribery, the Supreme Council Order on the approval of the position of a consultant to a parliamentary group, the approval of the position of an assistant consultant and the changes to the position of an assistant consultant to the Ukrainian National Deputy. The project is also proposed to acknowledge that a number of Supreme Council and Supreme Council rulings have been lost. I ask you to support this bill, because it will remove any disagreements that exist at this time in the current legal field of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u59	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. For the co-report, the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich, has the floor. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u60	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! On September 19, 2002, the Rules Committee discussed draft laws of Ukraine that are being considered in accordance with the agendas of 1115 and 1116 reported by the Cabinet of Ministers. The committee on this point notes the following. The amendments proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers to Ukraine's laws set out in Bill 1115 correspond to the adoption of a new edition of the Ukrainian law on the status of the National MP and may be submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council and considered. At the same time, it was noted at the Committee that amendments to the rulings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and other sublegal acts were not appropriate in view of the fact that legal acts should be repealed and amended in the same order as they were adopted. In this case, the position of the committee is exactly the same as that of the head of the committee on the legal policy of Vasil Vasilovich Onopenk, who was quoted today from this rostrum. In a meaningful way, we consider it inappropriate for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to make legislative proposals for changes to the Supreme Council's rulings governing the provision of parliamentary activities. Valentina Petrovna Semenyuk gave a red - language example in this regard regarding activities, narrowing down the powers of the Privatization Commission. The Special Commission of the Supreme Council. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm Thank you, Valentina Petrovna. These regulations relate to the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, the work of consulting assistants of the People's Deputies. Much attention has been paid to the testimony of the People's Deputy, the breastplate of the Ukrainian People's Deputy, the Assistant Counsellor of the deputy faction, and so forth. The purpose of solving these issues should be determined by the Supreme Council itself, not by any other state body. In particular, I would like to point out that this bill amends the decree of the Supreme Council Presidency of 5 January 1993, which has long since ceased to be valid, as this decree has confirmed the position of the interim parliamentary commission on combating organized crime and bribery. And there are a number of such normative acts in this bill. The position of the committee on the project is exactly the same as that of the Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The other one. Bill No. 1116 proposes to amend article 36 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies, which is an exception to the word “administrative”, since the authors consider responsibility, as provided for by the Criminal Code of Ukraine, in particular article 351. However, the Criminal Code only provides for false information, and the refusal or removal of officials from providing information at the proper time is not foreseen by the Criminal Code. So maybe not delete the word "administrative," but add "criminal." On the basis of the above-mentioned committee, the Committee has decided to refer the two bills proposed for further consideration and to be tabled in an acceptable manner. The committee is ready to take part in the work on these bills. The committee's appropriate proposal is expressed in the draft ruling given to you. Thank you for your attention. Please support the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u61	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. What are the names of the national deputies on the board? Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine, prepare for Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u62	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully share the opinion of the Vice-President of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure of Mr. Sass on the fact that the draft bill is completely raw and ethically so that the government was not to regulate these issues. If he were to regulate these matters, the government would have to be interested, and what would prevent the MP from working properly? And why would a national MP realize his right, as provided for by the Constitution or the Law on the Status of a People’s Deputy on, say, proving one or the other position as a state is being stolen. Well, let's say I don't know how they're ripping off today's hand-to-hand scheme. Let's say I don't know. And I don't think the President knows about it. But he received a message from the activists of the Party of Fans that two commercial structures had usurped the law, and they were selling hundreds of millions of dollars at a state-owned enterprise, two structures. And the former head of this structure, Mr. Oleg Dubin, is now assigned to oversee this from a position of economic security in the Council of National Security and Defence. He probably doesn't know. I address him by welcoming him with this assignment. Let him ask about the structures behind them, who is behind them from the oligarchs. So just so you know, and I'm asking Mr. Pasenyuk to report to the management here what should be written if you write and make changes in the description of the tabs for the national MP's identification, which uses the right of immediate admission by the President, the Prime Minister, the ministers, and then the leaders that you write. And you're lowering the people's deputy below the plentice. Look what you're writing. Next. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, in the past, we have taken criminal responsibility for obstructing the activities of the national MP without answering or answering the lies. What's changed? What crime did the Attorney General of Piscoon commit? He has neither broken nor violated any of them while he is in office. Therefore, honorable national MPs, one and the other, are not just raw but harmful to Ukrainian democracy. And they just have to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u63	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Vladimir Kirilovich, are you refusing to speak? It's hard thinking, isn't it? Boris Bespaly will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u64	Dear National Deputies! Conflicts and disagreements in legislation need to be eliminated. I think this thesis does not require reasoning, and if there is disagreement or contradiction, it is always bad. And from this point of view, the bills that we're adopting are going to lead to a shift to other bills. It's inevitable, it's normal in one way or another. And this is our routine work. There may not be a particular creative flight of legislative thinking here, but there is a need for legal technology, legal cleanness, no contradictions, no disagreements to make it a system of laws. That's what we should be looking for. So from this point of view, I think that the bill can be supported conceptually and as a purpose and as a design. Perhaps Carmazin was overestimated. Well, Carmazin is strict, but fair, yes. I still think that at least in the first reading, at least for the first time again, this bill is needed, because we need to reconcile the laws among ourselves, to make a connection. Now there are two moments that I'd like to pay attention to. The first moment, of course, is the main moment. This is the question of the guarantees of parliamentary activity and the responsibility of the MP for his activities and the inactivity and responsibility of the deputy before the law. This is a very important question, a delicate question. It's decided in many ways, in many ways it's not. And I think that in the process of preparing the bill for second reading, especially the whole set of bills should look at this point of view, how they provide guarantees of parliamentary activity and how they ensure the responsibility of the MP. And secondly, this is about amending the law, it's clear that the Cabinet of Ministers is passing bills, it's up to the Supreme Council, and it's up to the committee, individual deputies as the subject of the legislative initiative. But the question is, Who should make changes to the Supreme Council’s rulings? The Supreme Council itself. But once again the question arises: and more specifically, this is an abstract answer, who specifically in the Supreme Council should, they say, keep their hand on the pulse in legislative activities, monitor, inventory the legislative field and respond to outdatedness, non-conformity, contradiction of legislation? This may be a Committee on Rules, possibly a Committee on Legal Policy. In this regard, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, I ask that you give a protocol commission on this matter, who specifically, which committees may all be. Well, at least we have until now, as far as I know, there is no specific mechanism for responding to our decisions, and how we should cancel and who should specifically make these proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u65	Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine. And is Basil Nadrag there?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u66	Victor Yushchenka's block, "Our Ukraine", the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! I will allow myself to draw your attention to the specificity of this bill. It does not contain any legal stories of its own. It's a bill to bring other laws into line with the law we have approved, the Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies, which, by the way, we beat the President's veto there, that is, we support it. So I think, on the basis of this bill, we are obliged to take and, at this stage, to make as much of the other laws as possible, the points that we have already adopted. Otherwise it'll just be a mess to keep. And I think we can just celebrate the recent work of the Ministry of Justice, which is doing a lot of work just after the legislative contradictions are resolved. This purpose is acceptable, and we're looking at a few of these projects, and it's not just technical. And with regard to the inadequacies that have been rightly referred to here by you, dear colleagues, I think we should change the law itself, if there are any inadequacies, and they are, about the status of the national MP, that is, the basic law. Otherwise we'll just add the colossals. If there are imperfect standards left in the basic law that we today have based on criticism, and in the new law we write good -- let it be, but other standards, who will be easier than that? We're just confusing the legislative field, and we're going to have to create another ministry: by introducing legislation in line with legislation. Now, the Law on the Status of Deputies itself contains two groups, after all, of norms. The first is special socio-economic services for deputies. I'm not a big fan at all. any of these special social special standards for MPs in relation to other citizens. And I think we should think more about reducing some of these. Other standards apply to the performance of the duties of national deputies. And these standards are no longer needed by the MPs, but by the electorate. And it was absolutely justified that Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin here spoke of the inability to perform some of the supervisory functions of the Supreme Council by the people's deputies in the districts if they were deprived of such things. I think that's one group of comments. The other one. I think one of the biggest of these state secrets is where bad working conditions work for the people's deputies, that is to say, think about it. [[Unfortunately, there are no media representatives here now.]] about socio-economic conditions, for example, attention is given. But let's say that I invite those who are reporting here to organize a report from the job of the National MP, to see that the conditions are difficult. Well, finally. I want to say that any one of our speeches is going to be an empty chat if we don't force the executive power to execute and respect the status of the national MP. And in this connection, I would like to address you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, perhaps I do not know something, but there have been a number of attacks on national MPs, including women, a few years ago. The D.A. is completely out of the picture, he thinks that's the way it's supposed to be. And I think it would be normal for you to inform the National Deputies about the status of all these cases, particularly the attack on Valentina Seminouk a few years ago in Shevchenka Park and so on. Otherwise, any of our rights, guarantees as the rights and guarantees of our constituents, will remain only on paper. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u67	Thank you. I'm asking the secretariat to prepare such a request to give us, in fact, general information, what was the reaction of the law enforcement agencies to all cases of assault on the rights of national MPs and, in fact, the people's deputies. Basil Nadrag, European Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u68	Dear colleagues! Two bills, so a few views on the subject. And so. 1115. First. I agree that there are things that we must regulate, including the participation of deputies or the non-participation of deputies in the management of economic actors, military, pension security, access to State secrecy and everything else. I would like to refer to this approach, but I would like to speak on a different subject. We are discussing today whether Kabmin can come up with proposals to amend the rulings. I don't see the problem, I see the problem in another. To date, and in particular the topic reflected in the bill concerns the issues of our assistants. And unfortunately, here, I would like to address everyone, without exception, more problems than enough. Let me give you an example. Today, we can take a 20-year-old as an assistant with you, and an experienced person who has lived a life that has worked, who knows a topic that can give strong advice, write a legislative act and everything else, we can't, because a 60-year-old moment comes along, and then the money that we can formally pay a man who respects himself will not go. Therefore, I think that, with regard to the topic of assistants of the people's deputies, I agree with my colleague Karmazin, who has drafted the bill in question, I think that this is a topic that we need to deal with much harder rather than with the Supreme Council's rulings and who is making proposals. Let us make regular regulatory documents on which our assistants can be really qualified and people who can go in and get answers from the authorities that have to respond to these things. Therefore, I believe that the problem of assistants is a separate subject that needs to be looked at more broadly than this bill. The next bill is 1116. I agree with the general ideology that when it is written that, for what is not sufficient, so to speak, diplomatically, they have treated certain requests or certain requirements of the people's MP with little or no administrative responsibility. And here, and I want to say the same thing, that I am in solidarity with those who have proposed that there should be a written record that responsibility should not only be administrative but also criminal and civil and disciplinary. Moreover, I believe that the bill should be drafted, for which and for what measure of recovery against a civil servant is being imposed. Because if you just give it away, say, "From disciplinary to criminal," then you can wander around in this elevator all you want, and there will be no order. And the latter, too, is deeply convinced that a rule must be drawn up, how the one who did not impose appropriate punishment on a civil servant, if he did not comply, is to say, those rules of the law. That's if these contestants are, I think, then this addition to the legislation will be in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u69	Dear colleagues. We are finalizing a review of the law on amendment and recognition of certain laws and other legal acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine. This is document 1115 and 1116. The decision will be made in the light of the discussion. A draft law amending article 7 of the Ukrainian law on the transfer of public and municipal property to military towns is being announced for consideration. So it's suggested that we build our work. Reporters - Semenjuk Valentina Petrovna, Oilynik Alexander Mikolaiovich, and then in general. [[The voice from the hall. Don't hear it.]] No, that's what I'm saying, and then you, Anatoly Ivanovich. I understand. But if you do. Then you will speak, and then Matthew Vladimir Josephovich. It's a deal, it's a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u70	Anatoly Ivanovich, be a gentleman, after all. At least he's a man of his own. My bill is registered under number 3274.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u71	I think we're going to take a quick look at it and talk about it. There's no need.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u72	What's more, there's been an agreement at the committee meeting. Dear colleagues! I would like to say that the bill proposed by the deputies of Seminyuk, Kirichenko, MacKeenk is being proposed by the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatisation on the amendment of article 6 on the legal regime of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Why did the Special Supervisory Commission and we MPs initiate the adoption of this bill? First of all, after the adoption of the law on the legal regime of military property, the Cabinet of Ministers decreed 1919, which distorted part of what property must be shared with an unfinished construction and a complete property complex. I mean, it's a mistreatment. It is not possible to privatize or sell the same property today. Bushlays with enterprises of unfinished construction. In view of the incomplete treatment in the bill, we are making a proposal, first of all, in accordance with the property privatization law, and according to the law on the nature of the privatization of the unfinished construction function of the property privatization of the whole property complex and the unfinished construction of the property, this function is performed directly by the State Property Fund. He's doing an evaluation. So if we're talking about the openness of trade, about everything in the world, then this function should be performed directly by the State Property Fund at the request of the Ministry of Defence, the list or the census and that unfinished construction with the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers. This procedure is defined by the Law on the Characteristics of Privatization of Unfinished Construction. Everything relating to military property, as far as the instrument is concerned, may it be implemented through its authorized persons directly by the Ministry of Defence. Based on the fact that we are operating in the legal field and should act only in the legal field of property assessment, and the licensing specialists are only in the State Property Fund and have legal and criminal responsibility for the assessment of privatization, so our proposal is that all objects related to unfinished construction and complete property complexes are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers for submission to the Ministry of Defence, and that it should assess, at auction, it sells and implements. Everything about property is issued to the Cabinet of Ministers, or authorized organizations. With regard to the direct funds to come in accordance with the law that is in force today, the State Property Fund, when implementing the property in question, is transferred directly to the Ministry of Defence. So we're not saying that we're taking funds from the Ministry of Defense and directing it directly to the budget, as it were, we're directing it to the Ministry of Defence, but it's all going through the budget, as required by the Budget Code. Why did we ask that question? Especially in large cities today is hunting for large structures. Military towns sell all of this for nothing. There are objects, in particular, I called at a meeting of the Odessa Region Commission, where the value of property of 2 million dollars is realized for 80,000, for 90,000. If the sale had come from an object that had no owner at all, no one had it because of the auction, the holding fund would have made such a realisation, and the Ministry of Defense would have received a sum of 2 million. That's what the Ministry of Defense needs today. At the meeting of the Defence Commission, at the Economic Policy Committee, we agreed that this was the procedure that should be followed. Anatoly Ivanovich Domanski’s suggestion is that some objects be transferred to municipal property. This was followed by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on the listing of military - owned objects into municipal property. In principle, there is no objection. But, first, is there a law on municipal property today? None. Today, this is one way to still realize assets beyond privatization processes. That's why at the Committee on Defence and Economic Policy we talked, we're adopting the law in the first reading, and Anatoly Ivanovich, but on second reading, we're finalizing the adoption of the bill on municipal property that would clearly regulate the authorization of the territorial communities for the preservation of property. Not to mention today’s implementation of municipal property, kindergartens, buildings, and so forth. And no one can influence this process. And even commissions like ours today. So these issues need to be settled. I understand that I am also the author of that bill on municipal property, and Vladimir Josephovich and I have asked him several times, and even the request has been made by the council of various levels to adopt this bill. The settlement should be clear both at state level and at the level of the territorial communities. So I'm asking you to support the proposal that the realisation of property should be done by the Ministry of Defense. An unfinished building and building, the State Property Fund, and the Ministry of Defense. This is the proposal of a special review committee and myself in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u73	Thank you. Domansky Anatoly Ivanovich. Please. I think you'll say your attitude towards the bill, and also from the committee of vision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u74	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, let's put everything on our feet. They all wanted to put it on their heads that everything had turned upside down. Let's take a look at what we're talking about. First of all, there's a reduction in the Armed Forces. We have eliminated an army of strategic missile forces. All their parts were standing in the woods, in the swamps, and today there's no interest in anyone wanting to buy, wanted to put money there. Today, the forces are reforming. On the basis of each division, a brigade is formed. To compare: in division six regiments, six separate battalions, today in brigade six and model battalions, five or six towns of war are being liberated. And so on. I won't talk. During these years, the army has accumulated dozens, hundreds of towns, that attract nothing. Let me give you an example. The Lugina region's meadows, the 135th tank regiment -- no one's interested in it, no one wants to buy -- all of it, the tenders have already passed. Nobody wants anything. Listen! As long as there's a tender -- six or eight months -- there's no brick left on the brick. The army has to pay 30 million dollars each year to support these towns. That's right. Let him take the Holden and contain them! It's coming from the army budget. There's nothing to feed for today's army to fight for, nothing to shoot and drive, and we're 30 million. Let's throw it over there. These towns no longer have contact with the Ministry of Defense. And they're hanging in the air. People say, "Give us where we need to go." They're going to the Ministry -- you're not ours anymore, we don't need you. Give it to me! Enter them into some kind of structure. It's hundreds of towns. Next. We're not saying that the towns that are probably attractive to sell are leftovers that hundreds of people today, nobody goes to them, nobody wants to. We're not talking about Kiev, I'm talking about Ovrah, about Lugins, about Yulina, about Berditch and Kargallovka -- we're talking about where nobody's going. It's all stretching! We're going to give the Ministry of Defense those towns and so forth by text, to transfer to the municipal property of the territorial communities free of charge when no one pays for it. We'll take the load off the Armed Forces, they'll do their job, not protect empty towns. I don't know what kind of reforms we want, what do we want? I am addressing every deputy: how do we want to help the Armed Forces to reform rather than to engage in these unnecessary towns? So let's just leave it, let's just say, let's just, let's say, let's mobilize in all the towns an individual composition, put up sticks, let's walk, let's shoot and so on. Only, in fact, anti - Ukrainian anti - Ukrainian positions can lead to a failure to see what needs to be done. The blind can't see and the deaf can't hear. If we're patriots, we have to say that this has to be passed on to the community, the group of people who built it. I beg you all, I apologize for this emotional speech, but I ask you all to support my amendment to the law, and Valentina Petrovna's law we looked at the committee and we agreed there. Why did she go out first? I know. Vladimir Mikhailovich, not so good, so he wanted to be the first to take the initiative. That's not the point. We looked at our committee, and we decided to support my bill and to look at it in parallel with the bill on municipal property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u75	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I did the right thing, because Project 3273 is registered first, and it's going to be reported by someone whose first bill is registered. Your bill is 3333, and I didn't allow it. Please, First Deputy Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Oliynik Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u76	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished members of the people, the honourable ones present! National Deputy of Ukraine, House and Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine draft laws of Ukraine amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on the transfer of objects of state and municipal property. I fully support the Domansky deputy, and I want to confirm once again that today, when it comes to transferring the social sphere to the local self-government authorities, and it's being transmitted today with great problems, but positively, this process is being started, it's happening in the state. This raises the question of where to go in the unsocial sphere, those military towns that remain after military formations have been reduced. And often the authorities of local self-governance ask us that when the social sphere is passed on, these military buildings, which have no liquidity at all, are not sold, but the armed forces, indeed, are forced to receive them for months. So to do that, you have to spend 7-8 months or 12 months on that. Therefore, a simple, clear and transparent proposal is made: To make changes to article 7 of the bill on free transfer of those objects that cannot be implemented because they are remote from the population. Therefore, the adoption of an amendment to this law will allow for the transfer free of charge to the municipal property of non-demand military-city regional communities without a double offer to sell competitive privatization methods, that is, what is regulated by legislation today. I'm going to say that the Ministry of Defense has liberated 200 military towns today, and another 168 military towns are scheduled to be liberated in the current year. The 229 are planned to be transferred to state and municipal property. So I don't see any contradictions on my part either, I don't see any violations if there are any changes to article 7 of the aforementioned law that will allow us to reconcile it with local governments, with relevant ministries, departments, decision-making in the Cabinet of Ministers, and to hand over these military buildings, which I'm saying once again, have no liquidity, and we can't sell them for years, and big funding goes to them, military officials are distracted. Hence, there are no contradictions and problems. And what's going on with the implementation and making a smooth change to the Municipal Property Act is, I think, in the future, we can actually design this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u77	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I ask from the committee up to the words of the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment of Vladimir Josephovich Matthew. And please, Your Honor, allow us to continue our work pending the conclusion of this consideration. Is there no objection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u78	Deputies! Two bills were proposed for your consideration: registration number 3333 of the people's representative of Domansky and registration number 3331-1 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The purpose of these bills is to allow for the free transfer from the State to the utility property of military towns and other real estate or movable property that the Ministry of Defence does not need today. This relates to property that is released and becomes irrelevant in the process of reforming the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The drafts differ only from the second paragraph to which the Government undertakes to bring its legislation into line with this law for a month. [[Draft No. 3333]] In view of the military situation, the Committee on Economic Policy, People's Management, Property and Investment, having considered both bills at its meeting, proposes to adopt, as a basis, the draft Cabinet of Ministers, registration number 3333-1 and to supplement it with a provision to bring the Government's acts into line with the law and to adopt them as a whole. The Scientific and Expert Division supports our position. With regard to the sale of military property, what Valentin Petrovna has done here must say that the field study has shown a catastrophic situation. I can give you such examples in the Nikolaev region. Martinovka, where we had strategic aviation connections. There are no planes today, there are almost no military units, no water in the city of war. It's in the Ukrainian south. In summer, people survived, these buildings and buildings are not owned by utilities, and people are simply doomed to extinction. The Ministry of Defence has no grounds for maintaining this military town, well, of course there are no funds. Wait a minute. So the huge military garrison is falling apart, there are no military units, there are no jobs, there's no housing, there's no housing, there's no preparation for the winter. I have already requested the Ministry of Defence to transfer to utility parts of military facilities, including those in which Lieutenant Schmidt's museum is located, which unfortunately is on the balance sheet of the Ministry of Defence today. The city of Nikolayev, a military town where an aerial brigade was located. Taken to the ground, all to the ground. The inhabitants of the surrounding villages have taken care of everything: barracks, storage boxes, and equipment of the polygon. They've all figured out: weapons warehouses, weapons. There's nothing left. There's a bare spot left. If we continue to do so and leave without charge, I no longer say what was left of the Ministry of Defence of the Soviet Union when the Pacific fleet threw its warships at the shipyards and they just started sinking and had to cut them on scrap metal. I therefore propose that, after all, this is a matter for adoption on first reading, if we add a paragraph to the second paragraph of the proposal to adopt it as a whole. and accept it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the discussion. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Yuri Carmazin. Get ready for Puzakov. Let's if there's a denial.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u80	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I'm surprised Deputy Minister Alexander Mikolaiovich didn't give up his bill. I'm just surprised. The bill is exactly the same as the bill proposed by the national MP, General Domansky. In addition, the government bill was introduced two months later. And you register it at number 33-1, although you didn't have the right to register at all, it's not an alternative if it was filed after two months. And you're reporting him here today. I just want this to be a shame, I want General Marchuk to hear, let him put order in his office. Now, with regard to the bill that deals with this issue of two alternatives. Valentina Seminouk's bill and Domansky's bill, they actually agree with each other. One change to the 6th article, another change to the 7th article, and in general they both need it. Because people in their speeches are writing all the time, they're writing about the fact that the Commander doesn't have enough view to look at, not just what he's being represented, and opening up the stations to separate small-scale transport ministries, and seeing that, let's say, 16 military towns have been liberated in the Zitomir region, 342 buildings have been built. Everything's ruined. And people ask questions. In particular, here's Colonel Bondarchuk's resignation. Vladimir Kuzmić asks the question: At the same time, the transfer of liberated military towns is being blocked by the Ministry of Defence and questions the commitment of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the General Staff in the future, when a directive on the liberation of a military town is being prepared, to agree with the Cabinet of Ministers on the adoption of an appropriate decision for the transfer of the liberated military town to the local authorities. Is it hard to do or is it necessary to do so? This is done in exactly one day. And it's all written down, and it's all written down. What about today? You're stealing everything, and everything's fine, and everything's fine. Now I get a call, literally yesterday from officers from Lviv, who were ready to receive either 14 or 17 apartments, for a million dollars to get their apartments, they say the Ministry of Defense has once again blocked the transfer of the town. That's it. That's why I'm in favour of adopting these drafts in the first reading. But I would like to point out that when you cited the examples of Odessa and the Odessa region. Ladies and gentlemen, there's no question as much as there is in buildings, there's a question in the ground, the value of the land. And then the military, especially from the air force parts, was marked there by dishonoring all the Ukrainian Armed Forces. They were disgraced because they went under seven kilometers, and now we need to figure out and figure out where to find Olga Mikhailny Kolyko. As far as I'm concerned, I'm finishing, General Domansky's observation that there's a non-shortening, our colleague, the Armed Forces, I'm going to say, Mr. General: there's no shortening, there's going to be a planned destruction of the Ukrainian army. And we can only slow this process down. That's our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u81	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u82	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština As I consider the article in the seventh draft law on the transfer of property and property, I disagree with a number of positions and conclusions. First of all, how can the Ministry of Defense assure these people that the fourth month is living on the rails that an investor takes will provide jobs, thereby creating conditions for the city's viability. Tell me, what investor will take a town with more than 70 percent of pensioners? With whom will he open up jobs? So the Ministry of Defense needs to first address the issue of human displacement and then look for an investor or to decompose the military. Secondly, for decades the town of Kirovograd-25 has not received any financial support from the Ministry of Defence, resulting in the entire housing fund and social infrastructure being out of order, although, in fact, the funds were allocated, but they went nowhere. The D.A. and the D.A. need to find those funds and get the city to solve the problem. And thirdly, the people of the town of Kirovograd-25 are driven to despair by the Ministry of Defence and the authorities as unnecessary. And to hope that by putting this town on the balance sheet of the Alexandrian region, there will be no social tension among the inhabitants, no, there will not be, because how can this area solve the problem of the town when it's barely chewing itself? The Ministry of Defense, together with the people on the other side of the barricade, needs to tackle the issues that have led to the complex situation in the town of Kirovograd-25, whether it's free or at the expense of the state, people shouldn't worry about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u83	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Huh? There's no Rudzkowski, there's no Konovaluk. Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u84	Well, let's do it myself, and then you do it after me, okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u85	I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, I was just looking at Rudkowski. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, I am elected to the Majority District, which is perhaps the most militaristic in Ukraine, in a good sense. Because in almost every village in my district there is either a border military unit, or a former missile, or a land army. And because of the question that we are considering today, at least, for me as a deputy and for the vitality of my district, it is very and very important. Let's face it, we have an amazing army in Ukraine today, maybe even a rare army in the world, a mysterious army that everyone on our planet should be afraid of. Why, I say, we aim in the same direction, and we get into the house in Borovara; we conduct military training, we shoot in the direction of the sea, we shoot a plane, we shoot a Russian plane with Jewish passengers. And it's like that. I think that the situation today is similar to that of Ukraine, and military authorities are in charge of the property, the huge assets that Ukraine has acquired today. Because of this, I strongly support that bill, which is now proposed by Valentina Semenyuk, which will allow us at least a little bit to normalize the sale of the remains of all that remains, especially the real estate that remains in the army. Because weapons were practically sold, the rings were sold. There is something else that practically no one needs today. Let me give you an example. I witnessed one episode when the military part of the Chocolite was renting a large warehouse shed. So let me remind you, there's been an announcement that there's going to be a tender, so there's going to be a competition for a better tenant. It was announced, it was an impeccable year, this year, it was announced that the competition would take place on February 29th. So you can imagine what level these are at. Today's property is being stolen. Trust me, I'm in my military district. Especially the lass pieces that are today. I say this to the fact that society and our military today, unfortunately, our rear services have tended to become military marauders. These are cruel words, but I am willing to answer for them. Today, it is wise to look for investors who are willing to take up unbuilt buildings, or perhaps to take some of them means military objects and instead of paying for the money that will be stolen from the army, to build houses for officers. That's the most painful problem today. Many officers will be happy to leave our army, just give them a place to live today and there will be no conflict. Because of this bill, I am convinced that we need to support it. It's far from perfect. I have little time to make. But I think it's basic, it could be. Then it can be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u87	Dmitry Alexanderovich Rudkovski, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, "Trug Ukraine", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u88	Dmitry Rudkowski, "Trudova Ukraine", 91 Biloczerkovsky constituency. The point is that, honourable national deputies, I was dealing with this problem. I'll say it's not about the military towns of Kiev, Odessa, Kharkiv, etc. The fact is that these military objects are not yet capable of being cut short, as are many who want to be taken away, including state structures and others. It's about military towns that are unnecessary, let's say, for example, Bilokorovitch. They were released ten years ago. Some 5,000 people live there. But to this day, the Ministry of Defense is holding him because they cannot pass him on to the local authorities. I'm going to say that this law is absolutely necessary and not because these military towns don't want to hand over the Mini-Defense, it wants to hand them over. I'll tell you what, there's gonna be another problem. Would they be willing to accept local authorities? This is also a major problem because these military towns will need to be maintained. Besides, I mean, they did the right thing today, they said about Kirovograd and all that, that's right. But the other problem is that those military towns where military personnel are living today, where they are being held today, also have 60 to 50 percent of the need for utilities. And that's a very, very serious problem. Therefore, honourable members of the national parliament must certainly support the bill submitted by Deputy Domanski, who is today proposing a name solution to this problem, to support the decision of a committee of profile on this issue. And, of course, the Ministry of Defense should hand over these military towns as quickly as possible, because more than 200 towns, including military service officers, still guarding these military towns there today. Forgive me if they're either guarding or not, and they're helping load them. And that's also a problem. That's why I'm supporting this bill and I need to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m1.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. We will make our decision on the day of the vote. I mean, this is a draft law amending article seven of the Ukrainian Act on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property. [[on military towns]] The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. Questions will be considered as defined by Wednesday’s schedule. Thanks for the job.
