ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please be prepared for registration by your distinguished colleagues. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:27]] Registered -437 There are 437 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputies of Ukraine - Drach Ivan Fedorovich, Ustenka Alexandr Andriyovich and Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich. Let us welcome them and wish them good health. [[Applause]] Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Onopenek Vasil Vasil Vasilovic, into the composition of the deputy faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Kaletnik Grigori Mikolajovic from the European Election Group. Dear colleagues. If you don't mind, I'll put the MPs to the vote because there's a lot of them. Is there no objection? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u2	Requests were received from Ukrainian national deputies: Vladimir Skomarowski to the President of Ukraine regarding the sale of state-owned shares packages of the Ukrainian state-owned holding company Ukrepapirprom. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:32]] For-96 Request not supported. Groups of National Deputies. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u3	This is for the President of Ukraine. Again, the request to the President of Ukraine for a group of National Zajec, Karmazin, only 175 National Deputies to the President of Ukraine to take steps to protect a unique conservation facility, the Regional Landscape Park of Granitno-Steps of Pobužja, in the Mikolai district. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:20]] For 215 Request supported. I'm betting on the vote to send the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:06:43]] For 237 Decision taken. Viacheslava Anisimov to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on certain provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2004 which limit the rights of education and science workers. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:31]] For-163 Decision taken. Stanislava Nikolayenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution to the problem of the thermal energy supply of vocational and technical institutions. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:01]] For-161 Decision taken. Maria Markusz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the grounds of non-compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine on the adoption of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2004 concerning benefits to war veterans. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:37]] For-157. Decision taken. Alexander Kamenyash to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the improper performance of official duties by officials of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:08]] For 177 Decision taken. Vladimir Yeshchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegality of the actions of representatives of state institutions and law enforcement authorities regarding the identification of property rights of enterprises in Cherkasa. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:39]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Yuri Boyka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the transfer of the former premises of the Bank of Ukraine to the Berezan City Court of the Kyiv Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:07]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Jaroslav Jódzik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Price Control Inspectorate, Head of the Government of the Open Shareholders Association, Head of the Anti-Monopoly Committee for Mass Violations of the Border Card Price. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:42]] For-182 Decision taken. Valentina Seminouk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a formal response to a request for dissatisfaction with disciplinary measures to the leadership of the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:13]] For 178. Decision taken. Boris Olijnik to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purpose of evicting the Museum of History of Kiev from the Klovsky Palace. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:38]] For 176 Decision taken. Roman Tkač to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the Government's unsatisfactory execution of the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to develop legislative acts relating to the Ukrainian Code of Land. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:08]] For 122 Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the production of domestic drugs developed at the Institute of Molecular Biology and Genetics of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine for the treatment of malignant neoplasms. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:41]] For 178. Decision taken. John Vasyunika and Alexia Yvchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the groundlessness of the intentions of Nadra Ukraine's National Shareholder Company for the elimination of the Sambian oil and gas exploration expedition. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:13]] For-191 Decision taken. Vasil Tsushka to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Ivan Kirilenko, Head of the State Committee on Land Resources on the Inadmissibility of Land Disposal, where there are vineyards of the national agrarian association "Masandra" from the farm and their transfer to the land supply. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:53]] For 180. Decision taken. Igor Ploho to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Minister of Transport of Ukraine on the impeccability of dismantlement of railway tracks in the region of Balgrad, Harcis and Tarutin. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:25]] For-100 Decision taken. Anatoly of Moroz to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, regarding the restoration of a special fund for geological exploration in Ukraine's State Budget. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:57]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Lesia Tanjuk to Deputy Prime Minister Veraina Dmitr Tobacco for failure to comply with the Ukrainian Supreme Council ruling of 22 May 2003 on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings on the functioning of Ukrainian language in Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:33]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Vladimir Bronnikov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the financing of the reconstruction of the clearing facilities of the Kaminsky district of Dniprov. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:03]] For-127 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the use of measures to remedy violations of citizens' constitutional rights in court. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:35]] For-162 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the situation in the village of Paliyevka in the Malovsky region of Kirovograd as a result of a violation of the President's decree on the reform of the agricultural sector. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:07]] For-146 Decision taken. Tarasa Crnovola to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the participation of prosecutors in the Lviv region in the property conflict. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:34]] For 196 Decision taken. Mikli Kulczynski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the right to be deprived of the right to inherit and privatize the land of a citizen in Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:01]] For-100 Decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the abuse of office and for the violation of official authority by officials of the State Executive Service of the Drogobic City Administration of justice regarding a child enterprise with foreign investments of EuronaftaAZ. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:38]] For-143 Decision taken. Eugene Kirilczuk and Stephen Cloud to the Attorney General of Ukraine for information on the commission of crimes in the field of service by the head of the Kyiv Court of Appeal and the head of the Supreme Council of Justice. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:10]] For 114 Decision taken. Stepan Bulba to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for failure to comply with the command of the Pyratinian Military Garrison of the Poltava Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:42]] For 148 Decision taken. Andrija School for Defence Minister of Ukraine on violations of article 2 of the Constitution of Ukraine in connection with interference with Ukraine’s territorial integrity through the possible capture of Tuzla. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:12]] For 111 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine for the lack of semi-cars for the production of silicate plant in the Kirovograd region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:41]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Mary Marcus to the Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in connection with the construction of a dam on the Tis River in the city of the Zakartat region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:12]] For-142 Decision taken. Vitalia Šibka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding unreliable information about the payment of the salary debt. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:38]] For 131 Decision taken. Basil Bartkov to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the purpose of selecting the Department of Internal Affairs of the Dolin District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Ivano-Frankow area of road transport, which is equipped with technical means of communication. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:09]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Alexander Kemenyash to the Minister for Emergency Affairs and Protection of the Population from the Blackwater Disaster in connection with the elimination of the environmental consequences of the accident that took place on the Friendship gas pipeline on September 17, 2003. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:43]] For-161 Decision taken. Dmitry Sandler to the head of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine on the study of matters of relevance of the Master Court of the Johno-Frankow region and the use of appropriate measures. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:14]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Eugene Hoornik to the head of the government of the savings bank of Ukraine regarding the failure to pay compensation for the loss of money savings in a significant category of pensioners for two years. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:44]] For-191 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the failure to conduct calculations by a charity sugar plant for a capable 2002 sugar beet harvest in the village of Vilšanka, in the region of Kirovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:19]] For-127 Decision taken. Next Michael Wolintz, but I'm asking Michael Wolintz to accept the change because he's offering the head of the National Security and Defence Council, that's for the President, there's a double vote, so if he doesn't deny it, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the seizure of state property in the form of the privatisation of House 65 on Red Army Street in Kiev, and threats to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Michael Volinz. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:17]] For 180. Decision taken. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of socio-economic development in the village of Brilovka in the region of Herson. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:44]] For 121 Decision taken. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a negative response to the parliamentary appeal of March 31, 2003 on the provision of medical equipment to the Montenegrin district hospital. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:15]] For-143 Decision taken. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the financing of the construction of the food cloud at the Herson District Hospital. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:41]] For-125 Decision taken. Sergey Slabenka to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the status of financing of capital buildings in the Volin region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:08]] For 165 Decision taken. Michaela Rodionov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the gravity of the investigation into the murder of a citizen named Mikhailenko. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:34]] For 139 Decision taken. Jury Pavlenko to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine, for the conduct of a legal review and the origin of case No. 13/413 in the Kyiv Master Court. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:05]] For the 110. Decision taken. Jury Pavlenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of actions and charges against Major Bewazi Vladimir Leonidovich in connection with the fires and explosions at missile and artillery weapons depots in the city of Artemis, Donetsk. And a similar appeal to the Ukrainian Defence Minister. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:44]] For-98 Decision taken. All parliamentary requests have been voted on. Dear colleagues, we've been working for 30 minutes to vote on requests. I see your insistence not to take a break at 12 o'clock. Let us now consider the issues in line with the schedule of meetings. A draft Ukrainian Waste Code is being announced for consideration. He will report to the First Deputy Minister of Economy and European Integration First Vladimir Leonidovich. The co-report will include the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, George Shirko. Such regulations are proposed, fellow believers. For the report, within five minutes, the answers to the questions are up to five minutes, for the co-rapporteur is the same, and the discussion is done within 15 minutes. Is there no objection? Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The Wastes Codex was developed by the initiative group of the Ukrainian Association of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, with the participation of scientists, leading scientists, educational institutions. In accordance with the mandate of the Prime Minister of Ukraine to draft the Code, a working group led by the Ministry of Economics was established with the participation of ministries and central executive authorities. The purpose of the draft code is to codify legislation and improve the institutional and legal framework for waste management to address waste management and waste management, to increase the number of secondary raw materials involved, to improve the environmental situation in Ukraine. I'm not going to give examples here, figures from this huge problem that we have in Ukraine. Just say one figure, every year we have up to 1 billion tons of solid waste in cities and villages, of which only 10 percent are processed. With a view to creating conditions to prevent or reduce waste generation, the draft code provides for regulating waste management activities, as well as averting the negative impact on the environment and human health. For this purpose, the draft code provides: the basic principles and orientations of public policy in the field of waste management, the role of central and local executives and local authorities, as well as specially authorized bodies in this area, the treatment of hazardous and radioactive wastes, the specific treatment of used tar and other wastes as secondary raw metal scrap, the scrap metal, and household waste. The basic principles of standardization and regulation in waste management, the establishment of restrictions on activity and licensing in this area, the general principles of financial security for waste management, and the system of benefits for the management of waste management. Ladies and gentlemen, today the regulatory framework for waste management consists of about ten legislative acts and largely due to a large number of legal regulations that do not allow a clear system of waste management to be established, order accounting and monitoring in the field of treatment. It is precisely the position of the draft code that addresses these issues, as well as ownership issues in waste management, the creation of a control system in this area, the mechanism for improving the health epidemic in Ukraine, and the strengthening of environmental security conditions. Dear National Deputies! Once again, I would like to point out that you probably know that the situation of many of the population in Ukraine does not meet the minimum environmental standards, and that the areas of the enterprise are actually converted to industrial waste repositories, and I repeat that less than 10 percent is used as secondary raw materials. Waste disposal as secondary raw materials requires considerable funds. To address the problem of financing these waste collection and disposal measures, and hence the health problem of the draft code provides for the introduction of a congregation for waste disposal as a secondary raw material. I would like to emphasize that this congregation is defined as a paying service in the field of waste management. Members of the congregation are to be farmed entities that implement the product through a commercial network. Dear National Deputies! Today, Ukraine's legislation on waste management provides for the existence of specially authorized bodies -- this is for today's and the Ministry of Natural Resources, this is both the Minprompolitics, and the Statecommungosts and others. It is in this area that the Wastes Codex projects to address these issues. Dear National Deputies! We have received a positive conclusion from the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, and that the draft Waste Code deserves support. And lastly, I want to point out that this is not just a problem for Ukraine. There is a decision by the Committee of Ecology of the State Duma of Russia, which, in its recommendations to the government of the Russian Federation, has proposed the development of a code of waste management for all SND countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u5	Dear colleagues! Are there any questions? Please sign up. Vasil Calinchuk. The next Lucenko. Light up, please. Please, Vasil Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Leonidovich, there must be a Waste Code. This is necessary for Ukraine, we need to put order here. But in my opinion, the code is essentially a legal act that should codify all available legislation at this point in time. In my opinion, it's very detailed in you, and this leads to an excessive increase in its volume and makes it difficult to understand the bill. And the second question. Section 24 of the final draft states that if it is adopted, the code becomes effective from the date of its publication. But you know that's impossible because you have to create a certain body and it's in the code and you have to see how it matches the budget. Please answer these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u7	Thank you. In fact, when we were preparing, the working group was working on proposals for the draft code, you were really trying to bring together all the existing legislative acts that today are also bylaws of ministries and departments in the field of waste management. Perhaps of these circumstances, as you have noted, are somewhat detailed. And about the last question after, as you said, about the introduction. Yes, indeed, perhaps in the final stages of its introduction in the preparation of the definition of a special authorized body, it may be as a treatment of waste as. Raw materials. Maybe it's the Ministry. the current Ministry of Natural Resources. Which will be defined either by the Cabinet of Ministers or by your definition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u8	Yuri Lucenko. Next Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u9	Lucenko, Socialist faction. Dear Volodymyr Leonidovich, the question is. Have you considered the demands of the public not to allow the creation of special waste processing companies, special authorized ones, which, without any report, will be monopolized in this field.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u10	No, there is no monopolization of this market. It's going to be if the organ that, in principle, we have today's environmental ministry of ecoresources is licensing for activities in this area. So the draft code does not provide for monopolization of this sphere, absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u11	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u12	Vladimir Yavorowski, Zovva, Yavorov Dear reporter! The fact that Ukraine is becoming such a European garbage disposal is already data so real and scary, the Italians are already coming here to drop their shells before yesterday. I have two questions for you. From my point of view, the two biggest waste environmental problems that we have are those Chernobyl cemeteries that we have in the area, about 800 of which virtually no one does. There was a version so that in the granites of the world, we could actually prepare some kind of nuclear waste dump. What is the situation today? And the second. The problem of the garbage of large cities needs to be solved. For example, Lviv had already buried a village in my district of Gribovich. Or is there a program that's being developed to get us into new technologies, let's say garbage treatments, which are in Kiev. What about the district centers in Kiev? Is there a program?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u13	Thank you. I'll start with your last question. Indeed, such measures are currently being developed. In particular, the Wastes Codex project provides funding sources noted. As for the wastes that were formed in the Chernobyl area and the use of these granites that are in the Zitomir region, I'm going to study this question with your permission and I'll give you an additional answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u14	Please, instead of Baburin, Anatoly's Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u15	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Zaporez area, Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Leonidovich, don't you think that in the Waste Code we need to define more clearly how to decipher the concept of waste itself. Why I'm talking about it, or why I'm accentuating it. The fact is, on the Committee of Industrial Politics, we are constantly faced with this problem. The same thing about metal scrape, you know, the law is notorious, you almost got everything out. And so far because there's no clear definition of what waste is, or today in our agenda, look at two bills on waste management, packaging waste, etc. So we probably need to define more clearly, and that's how we're going to solve all the problems that we often discuss on the committees and the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u16	Thank you. I could briefly say that I fully support your proposal. And in my speech to you, I've been pointing out that we actually have different organs, which may even be treating waste differently. So the metal scrape, as you said, is precious metals and so on. So it's very timely, it's a big problem for all of us to sort this out and solve this problem. I fully support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u17	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, Shiko Yuri Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u18	Victor Yuschenka's block "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party, town of Raven, Yuri Shirko. Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs! Some of the provisions of the draft Code that are of fundamental importance are: the licensing order, the granting of government and local budgets budget loans, the financing of state programmes, the granting of additional benefits, the liability for offences, export operations, the recording of value added tax and corporate income taxes, the establishment of wage standards and the accounting of charges for waste disposal and the use of natural resources, etc., are not consistent with the basic laws and codes in the relevant areas and therefore violate the unity of the system of law enforcement in these areas. Also unacceptable is the proposal to define a special authority in the field of waste management as a secondary raw material, which is an unacceptable reduction in the level of government in waste management, since much of the waste is a valuable secondary raw material. This is contrary to both the constitutional norm for the establishment of special authorized bodies in the relevant spheres of government and the arrangements for the formation of government authorities. The granting of licences to this authority is contrary to the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain activities. Moreover, the creation of a special authorized authority in the field of waste management as a secondary raw material with the functions of the host body is contrary to international standards, such as national rights, in part of the State’s involvement in the activities of operators and control bodies, and so forth. Not to be overlooked is the fact that proposed changes to the public administration system in waste management can be negatively perceived and perceived by scientists, the public, and international organizations. When considering the appropriateness of adopting the Ukrainian Waste Code, it should be borne in mind that the process of developing national legislation in the field of waste management is currently under way. Over the past five years, with better domestic and international experience, Ukraine has developed and adopted laws on the treatment of radioactive wastes, About wastes, On the National Toxic Waste Management Programme, On the Physical Protection of Nuclear Installations, Nuclear Materials, Radioactive Wastes and Other Sources of Ionising Radiation. Amendments to other laws have been made in connection with the adoption of the laws. A comprehensive program for managing radioactive waste has been approved. A programme for the use of waste and consumption up to 2005. A number of legal acts have been adopted. In addition, Ukraine has joined the Basel Convention on the Control and Disposal of Transboundary Movements of Dangerous Wastes. To the United Convention on the Safety of Spent Fuel Management and on the Safety of Radioactive Waste Management. All these gains are just the beginning of an effective system of legislation in this complex area of law, industry and business. Thus, the idea of codifying, developing and adopting the Waste Code is premature and groundless in the absence of sufficient long-term practice in waste management. To sum up, one can conclude that the basic provisions of the draft Code on Wastes in force in Ukraine are not appropriate and that they are not currently being adopted in the field of waste management. The committee proposes a draft Codex on Wastes to be rejected. The expert conclusion of the committee is given to the committee, which is given to you with the material before the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u19	Are there any questions? Please sign in. Vasil Calinchuk. Next Nadya.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u20	Thank you. Your Honor, you're telling me we don't need a waste code. I don't think that's exactly how the committee decided. Why, because of the wastes we have, we have already polluted all of Ukraine with waste, including plastic. We need him. Another aspect may need to be worked out. It would be very useful if you could tell us which articles should be further developed as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u21	Thank you. Well, first of all, I didn't say that the code, as you said literally, was "necessary." I said that his acceptance is premature at the moment. And what are the reasons for this, I've listed. Well, first of all, we were talking about a special authority. In addition, I would like to say that a thorough study of this codex can clearly identify what is involved in secondary waste. And about the garbage you're talking about, there's a question on the side. And we want everything to be fully accounted for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u22	Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u23	Dear Yuri Vladimirović, well, I agree with the position of the previous speaker. You and I have already collected 27 billion tons of waste per 160,000 hectares in the country, and today we do not want to streamline this situation. I don't care more about the situation: I don't need a code. I think he's needed. I am interested in something else: who and how will be responsible and empowered by the executive authorities if something is not done? In this case, I am interested in the situation with industries such as coal. Money is in Mintopa, and waste in cities and areas by catch, including the same Luhansk region that I represent here, unfortunately, remains and is increasing. That's why I'm interested in your opinion. First. Why do you think there's no need for a code? And second moment. How will the executive be responsible, not controlled, but responsible for working with these wastes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u24	Thank you. I'm underlining again. I didn't say there was no need for a code. The code is needed, but it's not like it's meant to be. And as for the first part of your question, I also stressed that we have a number of laws, including the Waste Act, which regulates the legal relationship in the area that you just stressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u25	Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u26	Thank you. Please pass the word "Hinsburg" to Olga Petrovney.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u27	Hinsburg microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u28	Thank you, Anatoly Mikolayovich. Hinzburg, Communist faction. Dear Yuri Volodymyrovich, I have a question for you. This is how I read: with the aim of settling social relations related to prevention or reduction of waste production, storage, transportation, processing, disposal and disposal, and confirmation of the negative impact of waste on the environment and so on. It was passed by the Supreme Council in 1998 on waste. In parallel with this law, the Law on Metallurgy, on the Elimination of Chemical Waste, on Radioactive Waste, and so forth. That's my question. The codex has to somehow unify these laws in what, and in what, I have this problem and the question goes on. If, for example, they are responsible for the implementation of the law by local authorities, and the state combines them with itself, I apologize, and there is a situation like that of me, for example, on the compound, the entire village is polluted with water and it is impossible for people to drink water, so who.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u29	Questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u30	Don't interrupt me, please. Whether or not someone may be responsible under the law for the wrongdoing and what responsibility it is. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u31	Thank you. The point is. Why does the committee propose to reject the codex? Because a codex is a document that is meant to codify all the bills, to reconcile them with each other, as you said. This is because the base is being developed now, and that codex does not correspond to the assignment that we would like to see. That's why we're offering to reject it. As for the responsibility for water pollution, we also now have a fairly normative and legislative base. Control leads, if in areas where a specific answer is given, to state administrations of ecoresources. They must do so. Sadly, though, this does not really happen. Yes, unfortunately, there is not even compliance with the Local Self-Government Act, where local authorities have in their structure executive authorities dealing with environmental security, including waste and water cleanliness. It's not a problem of legislation, it's a problem of executive power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u32	Please, Eugene Red. Do you have any questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u33	Dear co-reporter! Why don't you tell us that the Wastes Code was designed specifically to prevent market-oriented European laws that offer national MPs and packing industries. Waste? Tell people honestly that they are not interested in the problems of pollution in Dniprostinsk. It's a matter of taking money from food companies just out of business. And this is the purpose of this code, which is nothing like anything in history. All the countries of Europe make normal laws. We're doing the Ukrainian bike again. This was said to you on the committee and others. And that will be the answer to all the questions and to Mr. Nadrag and the honourable Mrs. Gunzburg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u34	Thank you. Actually, your question already contained part of the answer. But you're right. Because, really, even the conclusions of most committees that were accompanying them were negative, and in the very part that the creation that was proposed by the specially authorized body, yes, we saw in this that the main goal was to take the money. And then it wasn't completely followed up, so how are these costs going to be aimed at defacing or disposing of these wastes? This would be a significant burden for manufacturers of light and food production.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u35	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich. Next Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u36	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! [[And the hero city of Odessa, too.]] Dear National Deputies! I truly feel for the students who will come next time to study law, and they will be told, "Dear! Today we're going to a lecture on waste law." Get your hands off me, please! I pay attention to both the Chief of the Supreme Council and Prime Minister Yanukovic. If only he had read something when he signed that the fact that the practice of squeezing the Ukrainian legislative field with waste was continuing. Today, the Wastes Codex has been introduced. What's a codex? Dear, according to theory, codification is an effective way of systematizing legislation. During this period, acts are subject to significant changes, forming them into the only unit in which contradictions and disagreements are eliminated. Codification is then a major step forward in the development of legislation. What did the Cabinet of Ministers do? I've done a superficial -- I'm stressing -- surface systematization in this area, where normative acts are mechanically, by little exception, collected in a single document without meaningful systematization. I am grateful to the committee that made a serious analysis and the national deputy Shirko reported, but then under the pressure of those who did not read the legal field, which is, in particular, who did not read about the waste law, the metallurgy, the state-wide toxic waste management programme, the treatment of radioactive wastes, who did not read those laws, said that this code was needed. Dear legislators! Let's just take this more seriously. And I would like to point out right now that this code just needs to be called that, just to make a new office, the new ministry -- the department of waste that will be licensed. And here's the whole chapter, "The Personalities of Licensing for Economic Activities," starting with the 71st article, they've written everything down, they've counted the money, how and who it's going to go to. So, please tell me, what is it? I'm paying attention to the leadership of the Supreme Council and the head of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration of Matsuk. On the four pages of the report, there are seven experts from the Science and Technology Department, so what do you want to do about it? If you have anything to do, go back to law school! And you're starting to write from that conclusion you're making, the conclusion of the Supreme Council, that at the break of the millenniums, humanity's peak of civilization has come up with an extremely difficult problem. This is the conclusion that starts with the Scientific and Expert Office instead of understanding what systematization is, what codification is. Such a law must be sent to waste! And you've ruined a lot of paper, and you've ruined our time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u37	The word is given to Volodymyr Puzakov, the next to Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u38	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Although the adoption of the Ukrainian Waste Code will certainly have a significant impact on the country’s economy, unfortunately today it is not quite ready. Because the developers have a superficial systematization in this area. The draft Waste Code does not function as a codification of legislation. It will inevitably complicate the solution to environmental problems. The Code should therefore be developed to address the problems of environmental legislation that need to be addressed immediately. Because failure to resolve them will make it difficult to protect the environment. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I cannot help but mention the extremely critical economic situation of the inhabitants of the Zakavka microregion, which in Kyrovograd, which on one side is suppressed by a city dump that has been in operation since 1954 and since this day, smokes, covering the entire microregion with gray. The windows in the houses are practically never opened. On the other hand, we have uranium-mine terricones that emit radiation cells all the time. Uranium terricane is 200 meters away from the inhabited site. Residents of the Challenger are constantly breathing uranium air. And as a result, mortality has increased several times among the microregion, oncologic diseases. There's no way out. There are no culprits. And who are the only ones who will compensate for material and physical damage? After all, hazardous wastes can cause serious damage to life, to the health of the population, to their property, and to the environment. Article 20, on the other hand, refers to the responsibility of the economic operator in the area of compensation for damage. Sadly, though, today only the working people are commanded, and the state owners are on the sidelines. Let's look at everyone around us: all of Ukraine is polluted. In fact, even in Kiev, the authorities do not see the garbage dumps. Why are we so indifferent to everything that's going on around here? And look at what happens to green plants: they cut out all the parks and squares. What, though, have once become full - grown rivers? Not all environmental problems can be listed. And we are so simply and casually referring to such an important Waste Act. I propose that today’s Codex be finalized and presented immediately to the Supreme Council for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u39	Thank you. Melniczuk, the next Nadrija.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u40	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region I would like to focus your attention, Your Honor, on the ruling of the Supreme Council, which was made by the People's Deputies of Chernobyl, Slobodan, Avramenko. They gave a clear assessment of the Ukrainian Waste Codex. And I think it's too much to say. In general, if we see an object, it is essential that we create some organizations, ministries, compulsory licensing, necessarily with this license, as flies fly, those who do not want to do anything, but live on the basis of businesses. For example, the creation of a special authority in the field of waste management as secondary raw materials may also conflict with and run counter to the principles of administrative reform proclaimed in Ukraine. Moreover, the draft of this code gives the licensing authority authority authority power, but it is not only possible to amend the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, which has already been adopted, but it will also allow for a negative impact in the process of increasing the types of entrepreneurial activity that is subject to licensing. Thus, we believe that the Ukrainian Waste Code project does not function as a codification of legislation and is premature, it will inevitably complicate environmental protection problems. Furthermore, today's draft of the Ukrainian Waste Code contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine, a series of Ukrainian laws, and I will not count them so as not to take them away from you, colleagues of honour, time, and will also conflict with the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. That's why it's going to be necessary to go back to this bill, to reject it, and to send it for further development, so that it fits the current legislation of Ukraine and the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u41	Basil Nadrag, next up is Ivan Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, I will allow myself to do a small analogy. Today we have a lot of, I'm not afraid of that word, laws that regulate industrial or household waste. This reminds me of the situation before we passed a single pension law. When there's so much, there's no explanation, because everyone's pulling a blanket. And in the absence of a systematic approach, and the Code requires a system, there is no order. Let me give you an example. I've already called them. We now have 27 billion tons of waste in Ukraine, covering more than 160,000 acres [160,000 ha]. So everything we've done legislatively in this situation is not working. So we need to change some legislative stuff. And by creating a single legislative act, we will be able to regulate the Code. Second question. That we have to adjust. And here I agree that we should not create a new ministry, which will, so to speak, do in large measure only that we sit on licenses to twist our hands and everything and everything. But conceptually, I am deeply convinced that a single document on waste should exist in our State. I am also concerned about this issue, and I have already asked myself, sitting down from the place, what is the responsibility of the executive authorities and their authorized persons, and the arrangements, but they properly comply with, they comply with, they comply with, and they comply with, the rules. Because what I read in the Code says: " Responsibility of economic operators.” Someone else's responsibility, and those who have to control it are one topic. But I am more concerned about the subject of those who have to deal with these issues themselves. Let me give you an example. For the Luhansk region, which I am representing here, the coal sector is a pressing issue. As of 1 January of this year, 39 mines have been destroyed, 29 mines have already completed. 29 mines have ceased to exist. There's leftover waste. The resource is going through, so to speak, the States in Mintopanergo and, accordingly, is being redistributed further, further, further. I have a question, and an example that I've already mentioned here. The "Proletarska Shakhta", the village of Novotashkowski, the town of Kirovsk Lugansk oblast. The mining work was discontinued in 2000. As early as 1999, an inspection was carried out and it was found that as a result of the mines, radioactive contamination by natural radionuclides was threatening to go to the watershed. We're going to start drinking people, not just bad water, but radioactive water. To date, there is a programme on all these issues in the Mintopenergo, but it is not approved. There's no process. And this is the population, these are the people. It is therefore deeply convinced that in the code for second and third reading, it is particularly hard to write out what should be done by those who do not, including those authorized by the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u43	Please, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u44	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention to the problem of codification. Of course, a waste code is required. But let's not forget that the Cabinet of Ministers is now working on producing an environmental code. And it's clear that the environmental code will be a little higher than the scope of regulation and many other parameters. So it's strange to me, for example, that the Cabinet of Ministers is doing this. In this situation, it would be wise to submit an environmental code first, not to stomp water at the feet of its development for several years. And then we would have removed the problem of codification. Hence, a codex on waste will be needed, but at a much later stage, after the environmental code. But the problem is not that we should reject this codex or, for example, accept it. The problem is that this code is not best written. There's no real codification that we're thinking of, there's no agreement between those other laws that should be included in this code and remove all the contradictions that exist today. Moreover, the adoption of this code will create many contradictions between the current legislation governing waste management. The problem of waste today is very acute in the face of Ukraine. Traditional industrial wastes, hazardous wastes today have been added to such a problem as the pollution of the natural environment by household waste. And that's why today we need to focus our attention in this direction. And I would like today's legislation to be on the line of reconciliation between the interests of government regulation and the interests of business. Today, I see a mere struggle: one of them wants to eat one another. In this case, the code that we're talking about, he wants to regulate this process, he wants to rule out the economic basis for solving the waste problem, he wants to put everything into the hands of the clerk, and be calm that this problem will never be solved in this way. That's why I'm against us adopting such a code, because I see a very large regulation of these processes. While I was Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources, there were many suggestions, there was literally mad pressure to create a specially authorized waste management body that would, on the one hand, have governmental regulatory functions and, on the other hand, would have the function of a host subject. It's a decomposition of the government system. And I have always opposed this approach, and I urge you to take this approach. You need to concentrate government, regulation, and you need to get the farm function out of state regulation. So, dear friends, I propose that this code be rejected for further processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u45	Thank you. Question time is over. The vote will take place. Yeah, I'm sorry. Head of the committee, Hennady Borisovich. Please, maybe from the rostrum. Rudenko Hennady Borisovich, head of the committee, please. From the government will there be proposals?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u46	Thank you. I would like to say that it's a very nice thing that in Ukraine there's a concept of "environmental economy." And in principle, a very serious draft code is reported by the Ministry of Economics. The only thing I care about is that the Ministry of Environmental Protection doesn't agree with this project. From his point of view, he needs a lot of work. And when we have such a mess in the Supreme Council, we're used to it when we sometimes adopt bills that are not accepted by the legal authorities, by the professional committees. That's what we've been trained to do. When the executive board adopts and initiates bills that are not consistent with all the ministries of expertise, it's already a very bad signal. So I think we need to support our committee and reject the codex. Of course, the code is needed. But at a time when legislation develops in these directions, it is necessary to allow time for the bill to be cemented and then prepared for the adoption of the code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u47	Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u48	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished colleagues. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Hennaday Andryovich, I have two papers in my hands: the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 14, 17 and 22, which are agreed upon by the Conciliation Council. From the meeting of the Supreme Council on October 17, 8, eight drafts that were agreed on Friday at the Conciliation Council were not included in the agenda. I don't want to change the order of the day, and we're going to look at the bill. However, it is desirable that the national deputies prepare for the week, we come on Friday, and we have a completely different schedule of meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u49	Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, let us work in such a way that we carry out the order approved by the Conciliation Council. Yesterday we were planning to look at 70 or 80 questions, and we couldn't look at any of them except the judges. So it's up to us how we're going to work, and we're going to look at the issues. Please, one minute. Michael Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u50	Pavlovski, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Hmeljnična Dear colleagues, I'm literally just a proposition. It's a code, but it's not like that. We need to change the structure. First of all, throw away the "Emport of Waste" section. You know, we don't have enough to carry waste! This chapter must be completely out of the law. The other one. We need to enter a new chapter or reinforce one that is "State Order." There's got to be a government order for scientific research projects and manufacturing equipment and equipment for this system, because the law is aimed at bringing us everything, that we're going to buy everything. We have to make things at home. Third. You know, if we're introducing a department of waste, and John the Rabbit says there's going to be an environmental law, then we need to introduce a cabinet of environmental ministers. Hence, no additional organs are needed. You realize that a special committee of standardization, the administration of enough appropriate ministries. That's why we need to recycle, target our own science, production, so that any law can lead to job creation, not to loss. And that's why I'm proposing a re-reading, because the Cabinet of Ministers can't work out.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u51	That's all right, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! Nobody said anything new. The same performances. Deputy Minister of Economy First Vladimir Leonidovich. Please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u52	Thank you very much. Dear Hennaday Andriyovich! Dear National Deputies! I want to thank you for this discussion. Indeed, this is a major problem. I just wanted to ask you two questions so that you could think that the code provided for us to address the complex of problems that exist in this area. This is the first time. Secondly, it does not conflict to any extent with our international commitments in this area, particularly the partnership and cooperation agreement with European society. [[And it was a right grade.]] And the second. Regarding the body’s handling of waste. This is not about the creation of an additional central executive body today. This will be determined if you are defined either by the Cabinet of Ministers or you are in your own law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u53	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. Draft Act amending certain legislation in the field of waste management. He will report to the Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Polakov Sergey Vasilovich. Please. Let us consider the simplified procedure without question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u54	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Dear National Deputies! You are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation in the field of waste management. This bill is developed in the context of the further development of the necessary national legislative field in the field of waste management with a view to more fully implementing the legal mechanisms laid down in the articles of the Ukrainian Waste Act and other legislative acts adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for its entry into force. The draft Ukrainian law is drafted by the Ukrainian Minecoresurs in accordance with the final provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on waste, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 7 March 2002. Especially with regard to the implementation of articles 8th, 9th, 14th, 18th and 19th of this law and bringing it into line with the six other laws of Ukraine that apply to waste management in one way or another. The proposed draft Ukrainian law provides for changes in the main editorial nature to such laws and legislative acts: the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences to the Implementation of Article 18 of the Act of 7 March 2002; the clarification of article 82 of the Code on the specification of offences in the field of waste management pursuant to article 42 of the Ukrainian Law on Waste; the protection of the environment; the introduction of editorial rights to article 20 and 42 on waste management of article 19 of the Act of 7 March 2002 on the name of the Central Authority of Executive Authority, which gives basic powers in the field of treatment with respect to derogations from the law; the local self-government in Ukraine for the implementation of article 9 of the Act of 7 March 2002; and the local public administrations for the implementation of article 20 of the Act on the protection of the laws of 7 July 2002 on the enforcement of 7 December 2002. These changes reflect the current state of the legal base in Ukraine, which today regulates waste management, repeals, or develops new regulations in relation to the law. Making changes to the above - mentioned laws does not require additional financial costs from the State Budget. The bill is in agreement with interested central executives, such as Mineconomy and Minist, and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The draft law is considered and supported by the Supreme Council's profile committees, including the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, the Committee on Environmental Policy and Use and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, and has a positive conclusion from the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office. Ladies and gentlemen, please support and accept the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u55	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. The head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u56	Yuri Shirko, Viktor Yushchenka faction "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party, city of Raven. Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs! The bill provides for the introduction in accordance with the articles of certain Ukrainian laws relating to waste management in relation to the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on waste. The adoption of the law will contribute to the creation in Ukraine of a branched, interlinked legal field for the full implementation of the Ukrainian Waste Act. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Law Enforcement, State Building and Local Self-Government are proposing to adopt a bill on the basis of further development. The implementation of the bill does not require additional costs from the State Budget. The committee proposes to support the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on waste management and to adopt it as a basis for further further elaboration in the committee. Today, an alternative bill has also been introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council, its authors, Ukrainian national deputies Bandurk, Bratków, and Gavrish. Project registered early in October. The committee has not considered this project, and there are no conclusions from the profile committees. In addition, according to the requirements of part one of article 6.3. 7 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, the project is aimed at an expert study at the Cabinet of Ministers. In view of what has been said, and in view of the fact that the Cabinet Committee was still on the project in May of last year, we propose to support the very first bill. And the authors of the alternative project are actively involved in preparing it for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u57	Thank you. Have a seat, please. We are discussing Bill No. 2659, submitted by the government. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to national deputy Yuri Karmazin, next to Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u58	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal made today by the national deputy Hare John regarding the environmental code was made. The proposal is very serious and very important in order not to be taken into account in further work when considering all of the bills of this plan that are now being put into the agenda. I would like to stress that I have not yet made it during the previous speech, that Ukraine has joined the Basel Convention on the Control and Disposal of Transboundary Movements of Dangerous Wastes. To the United Convention on the Safety of Spent Fuel Management and on the Safety of Radioactive Waste Management. Even before a number of international legislative acts have become part of our domestic legislation. I'd like to pay attention to that to the government. Dear Government, please know that there is already a part of our legislation that we must foresee. And about this bill, why I'm leading now. It is proposed to establish the responsibility of citizens and officials for violating the requirements for the safe transport of hazardous waste. This responsibility will involve imposing a fine on citizens ranging from the 3rd to the 8th untaxed minimum of citizens' income. In fact, changes to the Administrative Code are central to these proposals. Therefore, it would be logical for the rapporteurs to be here today by the Committee on Legislative Security, whose area of activity is the sphere of competence that relates to making changes to administrative legislation. We're doing a little bit of a wrong thing. And it is because of what is not being done that the bill proposes to remove the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act, according to which the competence of specially authorized public authorities in the field of environmental protection and the use of natural resources is the right to grant disposal permits, storage of waste. At the same time, the bill does not define the authority to grant the above permits. Please tell me, who would benefit from such a standard? Clearly, it will contribute to chaos. You don't need that norm. The other one. See how we help local self - government. We're narrowing it down. Not us, but you, gentlemen of the government. In the Local Self-Government Act, you're proposing an article 33, where the authority to regulate land relations is changed. If there were authorizations before: to identify areas for storing, storing or storing manufacturing, household, and other wastes according to legislation, you are now just giving local councils a definition of the area for the disposal of waste. That's why. I'm not talking about the disadvantage of the 82nd article with the 7th badge that it is. The expert office says there are problems. I think that such a "cheese" bill should be rejected and given a draft to that committee that is professional in the field of law enforcement. I'm paying attention to your mistake at the distribution stage. She made mistakes now. And that's why we have this distorted mirror that we see it through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u59	So you're against this bill? Please, Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u60	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. The proposed draft Act amending certain laws on waste management provides for amendments to laws on environmental protection, on local government, on local self-education and on the transport of safe substances. I think that's enough to save the environment from the final environmental loss. But there is also a desire to have and not to be indifferent to what is happening around us. We can't live today on the principle of "my house from the land, I don't have anything" or we'll drown and drown in this dirt that's all around us. Not a secret that we lost a lot of things during the so-called independence, but also a lot of innovations. For example, there has been no new professions in these years. I'm not talking about managers and marketers right now, I'm talking about professional lowlifes, bottle collectors, car owners and garbage dumpers geologists. These professions do not require special education or work experience. Of course, it's a shame that someone gets plastic bottles out of a garbage tank and then sells us milk and butter in those same bottles. But what do we do? How can we fight this? Yeah, and not from a good life, our countrymen are doing this kind of business. Another profession, born of time, a killer of cattle. In principle, the specialty is not new, of course, there are official fighting, where professionals work, where they do analyses and issue certificates, but there are private fighting right in the backyards, of course they don't issue certificates, but they take a little cheaper. For some people in the city of Kirovograd, this has become a real problem. But it is impossible to destroy such a business. The law does not prohibit the slaughter of cattle in their own backyard. The only hope, according to the Chief of the Department of Veterinary Police at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, is for new laws that may soon be passed. In April of this year, 14 pig carcases were seized in a private fight, each of which found intestinal infections. Anyone who ate that meat would be on a hospital bed with food poisoning. Of course, the master’s meat was fined up to 17 bracelets. But can someone stop a fine like that? The Chief of the Veterinary Police Department for Quarantine Activities is hand-in-handling and says that the Division is working, and only last year did 17 raids on court fighting. Preventive work is ongoing, but the hands of the veterinary police are unfortunately linked by the bandit authorities. In this regard, I am adding an addition to the draft law: to prohibit the killing of cattle on its own and to increase the fines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u61	Tell me, are you in favour or against this law? Za, with the plugin. Okay. Please, Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u62	Yuri Solomatine, Communist faction, Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. Dear colleagues! The committee considered the bill carefully. There was a rather lively, heated discussion, but he decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support this bill on the basis of further committee development. Similarly, we made a decision on the faction that I represent. And so I just want to turn to some novels in certain laws that came out right here and that reveal the essence of this law. For example, the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences introduces article 82/7, "Infringement of requirements for the safe transport of hazardous wastes". And it is said that the violation of these requirements entails imposing a fine on citizens from three to eight untaxed minimum citizens’ incomes and on officials from five to twenty - five untaxed minimum citizens’ incomes. Such administrative intervention and warnings are needed. It's definitely necessary. The Ukrainian law on local self - government in article 26 is supplemented by paragraph 53, which states that dealing with hazardous wastes is carried out according to existing legislation. That is, the local authorities have received some weights to use at their local level these weights and these powers. Yes, it is in the law on local government administrations that article 30 contains such a novelty sub-paragraph 11. This is the point when local authorities are given such powers. And that's where it adds that the solution to waste management issues is done in accordance with existing legislation. I mean, it's almost all-inclusive trying to control this kind of waste management at all levels. This bill should therefore be supported in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u63	Please, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! There are two bills for our consideration: the amendment of other legislation in the field of waste management. One bill was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, another by the National Deputies of Ukraine Bandourka, Gavrish, and others.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u65	Another called off, we're not looking at another.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u66	Well, we have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u67	There's only one we're looking at. Another withdrawn, called off, was not considered on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u68	Yes, that's another matter! But it's in our hands and it's in the order of the day, so I'm obliged.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u69	It's a bill that doesn't have the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u70	Wait! Let's do that, we have it in order of day and we have to make a statement to this bill, or we'll do too much work next time. Okay. What is the difference between these two bills? If you look at the first part of the MP's bill, you can see that he has a word for it repeated by a bill submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. On the one hand, it's surprising when you start reading the Explanatory Note to the MP's Bill, everything becomes him. According to this Explanatory Note, the bill was prepared by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. No matter how hard they try to throw out the extra words, the Explanatory Note records who prepared the bill. I understand that because of the national MPs or the ministry or someone else wants to draft a bill that was previously criticized, particularly by other ministries of the Cabinet of Ministers. So I want to pay attention to both Mr. Minister and the Cabinet of Ministers, so that there are no more cases like this, because we're just wasting time on all of these asparagus. And now essentially the bill. The bill of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine can in principle be accepted, but further work on the committee can be done. In my opinion, Ukraine has come to the point where we have to increase responsibility for violations of environmental legislation. Because it's no secret that waste disposal is now more expensive than breaking the law and putting it in illegal places. Today, it is easier for an enterprise to put waste somewhere in a park or in a forest and pay a symbolic fine than to seriously dispose of its waste. Therefore, I propose to increase the fines for non-compliance with waste management requirements. I want to make a statement about the MP's bill. Again, the idea of creating a specially qualified body for waste management is being promoted. So we wash this thesis at the door, they all go straight to the window. So once again, the purpose of this bill is not to solve the problem of waste management, but to regulate the process by taking action, to make excuses for bribery and not to solve the problem in fact. That's why we have to reject this bill and adopt the bills that the Cabinet of Ministers passed. My position on this issue is very clear. Ukraine’s future is not about disintegration of state authorities, but about the integrated management of all natural resources and waste. That is the kind of ideology that fits into the ideologies of the permanent development of the state that all the civilized nations of the world live by. So, dear friends, I ask you to examine these laws to see what the system of state regulation governs us today. It is now destroyed, which was created in 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u71	Mikhailo Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u72	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear colleagues, the second bill that we're considering with you really has one point and has one purpose: to create some kind of, let's say, organs that would govern something, and to create other bodies that would take on the budget today. I think it's a very damaging situation where we're discussing such a bill. Today, the situation is different. Please, no one said we were reforming the farm, there are tens of thousands of poison chemistry stores left, which nobody thinks are an explosive situation in the village, nobody thinks. We're thinking about organs, we're thinking about licenses that definitely give the clerk the right revenue. And the people who are living in a rural area today, where these warehouses are really a threat, no one, sorry, thinks. So I am addressing the government and the minister who is here, please pay attention to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u73	Thank you. We're done here, let's move on to the next one. Draft Ukrainian Packing and Waste Act. Reporting by Ukraine’s national deputy, Czervonenko Evgen Alfredovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, honourable presiding officers, I am first and foremost happy that this law, which wrote five deputies from various political powers, but they were linked to real production and to the real economy, did not complain about the crisis, yet with the battle, I emphasize, with a great battle reached this rostrum. I am glad that there is common sense in Parliament. And thank God that today the main problem for all society is that waste, like other debris, starts in the head, says the classic. There is only one problem today, and it combines the entire discussion of today’s day, so they wanted us to be clear of these laws, so the law of the Bandurk, Bartks, and others, Havrish, came into existence for the second time. Some think about how to work under any circumstances and solve problems, others think about how to take the money! There's a way to regulate and force. This is how the whole country is divided, unfortunately. I don't want to tell you about this ancient story with this tara, the package, the President has rescinded Kabmen's decree twice, three times Kabmen's different governments, I can only tell you how the trait of this fight is, the request for the signature of 63 national deputies in the consideration of Decree 915 was just thrown by one of the secretaries on the floor. Do you know why? Because the law that I'm going to talk about right now can put an end to the uncontrolled collection of money, I'm telling you from this high rostrum, about six or eight million a month outside the budget with uncontrolled use, and our question that we voted in this room was not, was the letter that we're not going to give you a statement about how the money was being used and their budget. She's so secretive. Thank you. Now to the law. I would like to thank the committees, first of all the committees on environmental policy, European integration, the Main Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, which carefully reviewed the draft Law on packaging and packaging waste, by giving it a positive assessment. In my view, this profound open-minded approach will help solve the problem of improving the quality of Ukraine's laws, which is often mentioned in these walls and beyond. What is required is the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Packaging and Waste. Ukraine has already taken steps to create a system of environmental legislation. Environmental protection, waste, and other laws have been passed. There are not enough chains in this chain and one is harmonised with the European directive of the Ukrainian Law on Packaging and Waste. Maybe on the question of why not pass a few more laws on different types of waste. There's a simple answer. Instead of rediscovering the Ukrainian bicycle, let us adopt laws that have been validated by years of experience in other countries. Industrialists agree that the problem of packaging waste management exists and needs to be addressed. But they agree to participate in a package management system that allows them to pay just as much as they need to solve the problem, a real solution to the problem. Otherwise, uncontrolled costs greatly increase the cost of production. And that's what the consumer's suffering from. Yes, since July 2002, the government of Ukraine has approved and increased twice the cost of disposal, which is the size of a bottle, for example. We have a fifth place in Europe. And the bottle's reprocessing, the honourable deputies, is a very profitable business. And all the major producers in the bottle, by the way, have contracts with Ukrainian companies that collect and process and take that away. But we need to intervene in "The Crucifixors of Reprocessing." I don't know what they did.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u75	30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u76	30 seconds? I'm sorry. I want to highlight the main features of this project. The polluter is responsible for solving the problem. The State is focusing its efforts on legislative regulation and control of the solution only on the problems of separate packaging waste collection, because such activity is a wasteful activity, and it controls All other business issues are dealt with by entrepreneurship entities on their own initiative. I'm sorry I haven't had much time. I'll just say what it's like in the past. We're proposing a system by which a person, an enterprise of any kind, will actually respond under the control of the Ministry of Environment and Local Self-Government, rather than some artificial office that collects horns and hooves that can be found more often at Paris Airport than at waste collection. We want to divide the packaging and really answer, really bring the struggle for ecology under control to real content. And all that makes and makes profit is to separate it into a separate product, into a separate part of the business. Otherwise, we're going to make another monster under the slogans that's going to push, as this Crucifixion has pushed on the ministers, on us, MPs, to threaten me. And we're going to make an office in the horn and hoof collection, which, under the slogan, bribe and blackmail of some kind or election, or I don't know what, is going to rob this country. I insist, last but not least, that the Ministry of the Environment of Natural Resources must say its word already, because we have an environment where money can be cheated, everyone who is not lazy. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u77	Have a seat, please. The head of the Committee’s subcommittee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Mother Vitaly Ivanovich, reports. We're only looking at question 2433. So, Vitaly Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u78	Party of industrialists and entrepreneurs, faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs, Labour Ukraine, Mother Vitali. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. The draft Ukrainian Law on Packaging and Waste, register 2433 of 21.11.2002, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies of Chernobyl, Slobodan, Melniczuk, Kapusin, Abramenko, was carefully considered by the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. The bill was repeatedly discussed at committee meetings and at meetings of a specially formed working group. The purpose of this bill is to regulate legal relations in the areas of agreement with packaging and packaging waste to minimize risks to human health and the environment. The committee at its meeting on May 21, 2003, Protocol No. 32, reviewed the scheduled 2433 project, and suggested that it be submitted to the Supreme Council for consideration and acceptance as a basis. At the same time, on October 2, this year, a bill was introduced on packaging and packaging waste submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Bandurko and Bartikov, which is an alternative to the above-mentioned bill. The committee at its meeting on 5 October 2003 considered the bill and rejected it because it does not offer anything new in the field of packaging waste management, imposes restrictions on entrepreneurial activities, does not allow the state level to create an effective national waste management system that meets the criteria recognised in Europe. After considering the draft bill, it was decided to consider these bills in a package and to adopt a bill on packaging and waste submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Czervonenko, Slobodan, Melniczuk, Kaputsin, Avramenko. [[Reyes. 2433]] The draft decree of the Supreme Council is given to you. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u79	Thank you, have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich. The next miner.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u80	Yuri Carmazin, Victor Yuschenka's constituency block, Our Ukraine, Solidarity Party, Fatherland's Defenders' Party. Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to thank the five national deputies: Red, Slobodan, Melniczuk, Kaputin, Abramenka for actually finding those unregulated moments and trying to settle them in this project. For the first time in years, I have seen the qualified help provided by the Committee on European Integration on the appropriateness of the European Union legislation or of the GAT SOT standards and principles. For the first time, I emphasize. We have absolutely all the laws we need to have with this committee's help if we want to go to Europe. And right now, if I'm going to answer whether I need a law like that or not, I'm going to say, "Yes, you do." Does this bill fall within the scope of regulation of European Union legislation? Yes, it falls within this realm. And is he violating this legislation or not violating it? It does not infringe, and the regulation of waste law is governed by Directive 97/129 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union No 94/63 of the EU on 20.12.94, Decisions of the European Commission No 97/129, No 97/138 of the EU and No 99/177 of the EU. Why am I paying attention to this? We have to go to Europe. And today we need to be clear about what's wrong. Are there any downsides in this bill? Of course, they are, and they have not been named today. I want to call them. They don't affect acceptance or acceptance in the first reading, but I have to be fair. So I say that this law provides for a violation of the law and, in particular, article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Entrepreneurship. You predict that the state registration of system operators will be carried out by local government administrations. At the same time, the law provides that the executive committee of the city’s district council or city of Kiev or Sevastopol should register. So we're taking the authority from these people. In addition, proposals for exemption from tax on the added cost of services provided by waste management system operators violate the requirements of Article 3 of the Taxation Act, which requires that natural and legal persons be given equal treatment in determining the obligations for payment of taxes and assemblies. Especially before the budget. I am grateful to the Committee on Environmental Policy for its comments. I would ask for this to go into a protocol that takes into account the comments that this committee has made very qualified for the first time probably during this time that I have seen about the inadequacy of the waste management board's functions as executive authorities and other proposals that must be taken into account in the adoption of this law. Thank you. I'm in for the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u81	Thank you. Eugene Gorenik. Next Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u82	Eugene Hoornik, "Our Ukraine" faction, Valley Electoral District 89. Deputies! I am grateful to the drafters of this bill for the initiative taken in this direction. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill was drafted in the middle of last year, and it went through all the necessary expertise and "marinated" until suddenly there was a Waste Code and various alternative bills. I suspect, for the purpose of simply rejecting the passage of the bill. In fact, in the 12 years that the Ukrainian state existed, we did not feel that the structure of household waste and other wastes had changed considerably. If earlier in this structure the wastes of the product content, the wastes of the building, the glass, and the small amount of synthetic materials have been predominantly in the waste that our utilities have been forced to take to the dumps, the wastes of the package have now been completely higher. And the problem is really global in nature, and we can't go through a system that's big and square enough. The area is not enough, it's being used irrationally. And this approach, a purely market-based approach that the drafters used to set up a waste management system, is to make this system function as an advisory body, regardless of the control and other government authorities, a fairly advanced approach, and it deserves to be implemented. The only thing I'm afraid of is this situation when we adopt both the Wastes Code and the Environmental Code, and this bill, and it's going to happen by itself, and the waste itself. So it turns out that the adoption of all these bills, including this well-written bill, requires appropriate software materials and proper monitoring of the implementation of these programmes. Of course, there are no negative aspects to the bill. In particular, as has already been said, it does not correspond to some of the various laws of Ukraine. But these flaws can be eliminated in the process of second reading. So I suggest that we take the first reading as a basis and continue to work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u83	Thank you. Tell me, Vladimir Puzakov, you're in favour or against. There are two "for", two "against" in the short-term. Would you please say yes? Would you please tell those who have signed up, or are they against this bill? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u84	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u85	Turn off the microphone, please. There's an order, please. Who's against, I'm asking you again? Please, Olga Hinzburg. Two "for"s made a statement. She can pass on the word. Please. Let's not say "for" or "against." There's regulations and order. Let's keep the order. It's not just me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u86	Dear National Deputies! Communist faction, Hinzburg Olga Petrovna, 161 constituency. As I considered this law, I wanted to make a statement, just a few remarks. It is not clear about the package and the packaging waste, so it is not very specific how the package should now be stored and which has not yet been used. I understand that the issues that the state has not been able to close today, the holes in our legislation or in our economy, today, are being closed by people who see something in this favor or some business or some market relationship that they're doing today, and that is what they're going to do. In this law, I'd like to say I'm worried about two things: the draft law sets a limit on allowable concentration of lead, cadmium, mercury and chromium in the package, there's the size of that, that sort of thing. And it is not clear whether it is possible to use it is well written in the Ukrainian Waste Codex, an article of responsibility. And if all of this is broken, who and how will be responsible? This is my first observation of this law. That's what I have. It is not clear why the tax system is not in line with the law and the principles of tax reform, and the law states that this is about exemption from tax on the added cost of services. In general, if these comments are corrected in the law, they can be maintained. If not, of course it is needed for further processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u87	Thank you. A woman will always find ways to get out of a difficult situation very much. Please tell me, is anyone against this bill? None. Please, Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u88	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština In the last few years, import equipment has been installed in all leading food companies in Ukraine, which has been the main cause of the variety of food products on the Ukrainian market. This is the main part of household garbage in each family. Any businessman was thinking about how to process practically free material, or how to sell the waste of his own production? But the one who wants to do waste treatment and the owner of this waste divides three problems with a high wall: the low price of used packaging materials, the second - the high cost of stockpiling and transporting waste to the processing site, and the third - the need to get waste with proper preparation to ensure the technological process is possible, that is, additional material costs. By analysing the above points, the conclusion is reached that there is no link between the meeting place, the accumulation of the package used, and the place where it is processed. As one way of solving this problem, the Renaissance industrial enterprise in Alexandria of Kirovograd district offers the technology of prior waste movement through hydraulic packaging presses. The hydraulic press used to pack waste reduces the volume of waste to 90 percent. Italian and Dutch complex hydrosystems provide reliable press work under any external conditions. The simplicity of the press's construction ensures the safety of its work, minimizes the cost of its operation. Press design allows press production with various efforts to press and order a particular buyer. The press can be installed at any point of secondary raw material sorting, and the economic efficiency of the press doesn't need complex economic calculations. A similar example of economic efficiency in the use of used packaging press technologies is the case for cardboard packaging, polyethylene film, corrosive packaging, and so on. The use of the press today makes the processing of any waste profitable, and accordingly reduces investment in the processing of the package used, creates new jobs, and saves for future generations the unique beauty of Ukrainian landscapes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u89	Thank you. From the government, the word is given to the Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Mr. Grizzenka Anatoly Volodymirovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u90	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished national deputies. The Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources has worked on the draft bill and considers it essential for adoption, since packaging and packaging waste today pose a problem in our country, and above all are environmental problems. At the same time, in our view, this bill is not without certain flaws, as the honourable Deputy Carmazin spoke of, and we agree with it. And when they were working on the Supreme Council profile committee, they also talked about it. Well, we think the ministry will also take part in making proposals on this bill. And in processing for second reading he'll be the one to find support in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u91	Thank you. Question completed. Let's move on to the next one. It is proposed to consider a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the prevention of the propaganda of terrorist acts. Report to the Acting Minister of Justice of Ukraine Hare Anatoly Pavlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u92	Honorable Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished Ukrainian national deputies. The development of a draft law is caused by the spread of terrorism on a planet that threatens the very existence of humanity and by the absence in Ukraine of adequate preventive legislative barriers related to the production and distribution of works that promote the means and means of carrying out terrorist acts. The bill is proposed to amend article 46 of the Ukrainian Information Act, article 3 of the Ukrainian Press and Press Act on printed media in Ukraine and article 28 of the Ukrainian Publishing Act to prohibit the use of information, printed media and publishing activities to promote terrorism. The adoption of a draft law will create conditions to prevent the distribution of publishing products that promote terrorism. In addition, it will promote the fight against terrorism in all its manifestations, confirm Ukraine’s adherence to the consistent fulfilment of its obligations to the world community to counter this dangerous phenomenon, and testify to our State’s support for actions taken against terrorism in accordance with the requirements of the United Nations. The last draft of the bill was proposed and approved at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on freedom of speech and information, and reviewed and endorsed by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence. We ask for the support of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u93	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Zubov Valentin Sergiyyovich, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, Valentin Zubov, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. According to the commission of the Committee on National Security and Defence at its meeting on September 17, this year, the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers reviewed a draft Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. The bill is designed to create appropriate legal bases for the prevention and distribution of publishing products that promote the commission of terrorist acts, as well as the exercise of State control over the production, distribution, storage, transfer, acquisition, transfer, release, destruction of publishing products that reveal the technology of manufacture, repair or use of weapons, ammunition, explosives and radioactive materials to prevent their use for unlawful purposes. A positive assessment of the bill was given to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authorities. However, the committee received a number of comments and suggestions from the Ukrainian National Deputies, which were carefully considered after the adoption of the bill in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis and further development of the bill for consideration in the second reading. The committee approved recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the bill and accept it as a basis by entrusting the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with national security and defence issues to work on it, taking into account the proposals made by subjects of the right to legislative initiative and to submit it to a second reading. The implementation of the law does not require any additional expenditure from Ukraine’s state budget if it is to be adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u95	Thank you. The word is given to Tomenko Mikoli Volodymirovich. Let's move on to the discussion. Next up is Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u96	Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! On the committee, we considered this proposal from the Cabinet of Ministers and our next position. In principle, we do not deny that the Information Act, in particular, and the Law on Printed Media, have been amended after we in the Supreme Council passed a bill on the problems of terrorism and because there are realities of life that need to be talked about. But we have proposed to move away from this broad and, in my opinion, sufficiently ambiguous notion of the commission of terrorist acts, because this will be an action that will cause a lot of different interpretations and we suggest simply in the text, and it will be conceptual and stylistically sound, in general, a list of information that cannot be used to call for the overthrow of the constitutional system, the violation of Ukraine's territorial integrity, the propaganda of war and so on and terrorism. So instead of these three words, "terrorist acts," one word is "terror." Our general position is that when we change very delicate laws such as the Information in Part of the Forbidden Standards Act, we should be very careful because we already have a history with the Civil Code, which has not yet become effective since January 1, where we have a term of "bad information" that no one knows what it is, because here, when we make changes, we have to be absolutely convinced of what it means, because the result of such changes may be the closure of the newspaper, the result of such changes may be, let's say, appropriate sanctions to the media, and therefore I think that the first reading can be accepted with the understanding that we will then insist that instead of three words of terrorism. And I would like to say that, unfortunately, the Supreme Council is in an interesting situation, that we continue to be bombarded, that we are the biggest enemies of Ukrainian television, and I would like to tell our television and radio audiences, including, according to current legislation, the Supreme Council does not determine the amount of funding by the television companies, the National Television Company, including. So if the National Television has funding problems, it should boycott a government that gives them little money. And all we can do is control or control the execution or failure of these decisions. So I asked all those who organized journalists against the Supreme Council of the National Television to meet with the government and ask the government to increase funding and order in the National Television Company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u97	Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u98	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Not everything in our lives is bad and not everything in our government is bad. I want to say that this particular bill has suddenly led to a change of government. He sent us proposals on January 30th, at the signature of Viktor Yanukovic, but then, having realized that some changes had already been made, new laws had been passed in the legislation, he sent a new draft law to replace the earlier issue of August 13. This is the first time I've seen any drafts. Well, it's probably the role of the Ministry of Justice, not the government. Well, at least we have to prove that there are positive developments. This law amends the laws on information, on printed media, on press in Ukraine, and on publishing. According to the changes proposed by the project, information cannot be used to call for terrorist acts. I want to remind you that we passed the Terrorism Act on March 20, 2003. In my opinion, the law is a little bit dangerous as our level of legal awareness. And in order to understand how dangerous it is, you will understand it a little later when you see all the areas of activity in this direction that special services are carrying out today. I would like to warn just the special services in the person of the new head of Igor Smjsko's SBU that we, as the opposition constructively configured political power, are looking after all the changes that are taking place in the Ukrainian Security Service, which are taking place under the influence of a single party that has barely jumped for 4 percent, and we know about them. And I'm talking to my countryman, Igor Smilek, stop at the limit you can't go on. Do not release those who expose you to smugglers, terrorists, and others. Stop! - I'm talking to Igor Smichko again. So this is about the standards that are now being introduced. We propose, proposed by the government, that the implementation of this project will fully contribute to improving the effectiveness of the fight against crime. And what changes are made, they will not aggravate human rights and freedoms, but will ban the use of printed media for the purpose of committing terrorist acts. And this is good for the people of Ukraine. I think the security forces have figured out what I mean, including monitoring political forces and national MPs, all of them, mostly 450. You don't need such a big array of information, Mr. Igor. If you need to, ask people specifically, they will give you the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u99	Thank you. Please tell me, is anyone against this bill? Once again, by order, if anyone insists against it, we should give him our word. Please, Kosov. Mikhailo Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u100	Mikhailo Kosov, Reform and Order Party, Victor Yushchenka block, "Our Ukraine." Dear fellow national MPs! As already stated in the report and presentations, we accept amendments or rather additions to three projects involving information, media, and publishing. I had a touch on all of these adoptions and the drafting of these laws. And that's why I have to say it. Already in the existing laws to which additions are proposed, there is a list of what cannot be used to call for, say, the overthrow of the constitutional system, the violation of Ukraine’s territorial integrity, the propaganda of war, violence, cruelty, the burning of racial, national, religious enmity. Further, this list includes the commission of terrorist acts. And all the laws are similar, so the supplements. And it would be perfectly normal, but if we know more or less what the call is for the collapse of the constitutional system, then the commission of terrorist acts within which this applies, let's say, the publishing law, and how the whole publishing can be cleared, confiscated, because it succeeds in such acts, absolutely does not come out of these additions. All of this is devoted to subjective evaluation and subjective approaches of those printed organs and even publications that may be subject to mistreatment, such as the ruling regime or authorities, regardless of who is there, on this summit. And if we add the law to the famous dungeons. I fear that this will not lead to order and to the fight against terrorism, but will stimulate lawlessness. So I propose not to pass this law until there is an interpretation of terms. I'm going to send him back for his first reading, because I don't think if we take him on the first reading, then we'll be able to make something up to something. And after these elements have been clarified, they'll take it back to this room. And the last. I would like to remind you, fellow colleagues, that already the anti-terrorist law that we passed on March 20 this year met in particular in the media, a very negative sharp estimate. Let us not take further false steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u101	Please tell me, who else is against this law? Please, Vladimir Yavorowski. He's the one who's against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u102	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski and Žovkovsky districts, Lvivščina, "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, I am in solidarity with Mikhail Kosi. Our thoughts are almost parallel to what he said. Again and again, you've just been trying to convince yourself lately that legislation in Ukraine is a very risky thing. Risked by the practical adoption of a generally normal, European standards of law, we all fear: How will this law be applied? And generally, practice shows that this law is used for the worst purposes in which it can be used. I understand perfectly, and you realize that, of course, up to the 11th number, before these events in America, we would probably have no one hassle with the Terrorism Act, and never, probably, would have followed that law. But the world already exists in new dimensions. And today, even superpowers understand very well that neither the vast army, nor, let's say, the POW, nor the ship -- nothing can protect them from a poor state, an angry state, including, say, this match between the Muslim world and others. That's why I agree, once again, with Mikhail Kosi, that we have these little adjustments that can be used. Go prove whether it is propaganda, such as the same or terrorism, there or something. These things are very thin. And because, really, I wouldn't rush this bill. And a few words. Because we are talking about the concept of territorial integrity today as well. I think about it more and more. I understand that this thought may have some opposition. But I would like to express it as a person who does politics and has this one, because of my electorate, has this rostrum. I am tracking these events in the Azov Sea, and I am increasingly convinced that our authorities know what the Russian side is doing. And it's done so that, Lord, you don't bring back, once again I say, "Tip me in the tongue," "involve us in some military conflict, and then, under the noise of military conflict, declare an extraordinary situation, and Leonid Danilovich will keep this situation in his hands as long as he needs." Thank you. This law cannot be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u103	Thank you. Please, Olga Hinzburg's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u104	Thank you for being able to tell me. It's only a very short one. In my time, I was introduced the Act on Social Protection for Citizens Who Have Suffered From Terrorism. He's been through all the committees, and he can't get through the hall, and we think we don't have the kind of people we need to protect. And this came into existence when a terrorist act was committed in Moscow and we have to uphold that law. And for example, I thought I'd bring in someone who'd hurt us. During the presidential election, we had a terrorist attack in Bloody Rose, where more than 60 people were affected, and there were so many of my countrymen, they keep turning. And the state can't help them today. Therefore, considering this law, which is necessary in some way, and in some way it may be more political, I would like to highlight the problem that is such a law of social protection for citizens who have suffered from a terrorist act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u105	Thank you. The question has been considered. Let's move on to the next one. It is proposed to consider a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. Reporting by Ukrainian national deputy Leszczenko Volodymyr Aleksijovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u106	Thank you. Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. I strongly believe that common sense will take over the Ukrainian people's deputies and that the next election will be held on a proportional basis, i.e. on party lists, because a separate MP will never be able to execute his program, it's only possible for a political party. This confirms, by the way, the practice. In my view, therefore, elections should be held on a proportionate basis not only for the national deputies of Ukraine but also for the local councils. As long as repetitive and interim elections follow valid laws, which are quite imperfect on individual issues. The proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads are due to the fact that in part four of article 44 of the Act in force, the number of candidates in the electoral ballot in the multi-vote constituency should be voted on by a specific elector. In practice, this gives rise to a variety of interpretations of the above-mentioned position by election committees of all levels, including the Central Election Commission of Ukraine. Most of them agree that the electorate in the multi-mandatory constituency has the right to vote for any number of candidates in the respective local council, even for all those who have been put to the electoral ballot, regardless of the number of mandates in the district. This deprives the electorate of knowingly choosing his chosen ones, gives him a sense of passiveness, an awareness that his position is not dependent on anything. In addition, this approach to the election of local council members in multi-mandatory constituencies creates favourable conditions for falsification of the results of the elections by interested persons. A similar interpretation could, for example, be applied in not one vote, but in any number of candidates and in one-maned constituencies in the election of local councillors, which would be absurd. Therefore, the drafters of the bill that part 4 of article 44 of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads should be supplemented by provisions on the limitation of the number of candidates for whom a specific electorate has the right to vote on the number of mandates in the multi-mandatory constituency. In this regard, additions should also be made to part 3 of article 45 of the Law. Voting in multi-mandatory constituencies is also considered invalid when it comes to ballots, which are marked in squares as opposed to the names of more candidates than the number of mandates in the district. I'm going to point out that the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads does not require any additional budget expenditure. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u107	Thank you, have a seat, please. The report is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Klukkowski Jury Bogdanović. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! Your point is to propose a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. It would seem that why change the law in force today, why should we not enact an entire law in the new edition? However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a valid law was passed in 1998, followed by two elections in 1998 and 2002. And the practice of the electoral process in 2002 showed that the law was very much out of date. Of course, the new law, if adopted, will apply, starting with the local elections, which should be in accordance with the Constitution in 2006. Today, however, so-called interim elections are regularly held in many places, i.e. elections instead of those that have arisen in the event of a new administrative and territorial unit being formed or in the event of a permanent suspension of the powers of the council or of the head. And the election process under the old electoral law is causing a lot of conflict and a lot of misunderstandings. It is to remove the most violent of them and the proposed bill. What are the basic positions that are proposed in it? First of all, it is proposed to make clear in the wording of part 4 of article 6 of this law the standard that caused the mass cancellation of registered candidates for local council members during the 2002 elections. It is about who has the right to choose, who has the right to vote at local elections, or who has the right to vote at all. So it's suggested that this should be clarified from the point of view of the Constitution of Article 71. Next. The law on political parties is being drafted. The Law on Local Elections provides for the legalization of local organizations, parties, and appropriate legalization. Since the Law on Political Parties provides only for the registration of these organizations, a corresponding change is proposed here. Next. Among the objects of promotion are the preservation of political parties and their local organizations, public organizations, and self - exaltation mechanisms. However, it is not appropriate to maintain such an object as the constituencies of the electorate in view of its uniqueness. The constituencies of the electorate cannot be called in the same warehouse for the second time; they cannot be identified as a permanent subject of the electoral process. In the case of self - exaltation, the electorate’s congregations simply become unnecessary. The next very important problem. Today, we have a few cases where no election is to be made, either by a local council member, or by a village or village head, rather than by an emergency. The most violent situation is in the city of Poltava, where there has been a city head vacancy since June 2002. Yet the city council does not appoint elections, although it was obliged to do so during the month. This subject’s replacement does not provide for a valid law. It is suggested that, as in some other cases, legislation is already in place so that when the local council violates the law by its inaction, it gives the right to appoint, in accordance with the law and the Constitution, interim elections to the local Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's about creating election committees. Today they are predicted to be created by both councils and executions. Obviously, this should not have a bearing on the performances. Therefore, it is suggested that the subject of the commission’s formation be excluded, leaving only the councils. It is also envisaged to include the obligation to take into account proposals for members of the boards of electoral bodies: parties, public organizations, self - promotion candidates. It is suggested that, on the basis of responsibility for violating electoral legislation, such an action as the call for electoral boycotts be excluded. Since the boycott of elections today is simply impossible, since there is no electoral threshold, the subject of the election itself disappears, so it is anticipated that this position will be excluded from the law. And finally, another thing that caused a lot of controversy. The current law provides for the possibility of cancelling the outcome of the election in part with respect to one of the candidates. So the results of only one candidate cancel out, and all of the others remain, which leads to in some cases people choosing to take third or even fourth place in elections. So this rule is proposed to be replaced only by a total cancellation of the election results and a re-election in this case. I would like to emphasize once again that the bill does not affect the substance of the electoral system or any other fundamentals of this present law, but simply removes the most serious and controversial positions that were clearly known during the 2002 electoral process. I look forward to supporting this bill despite such a mass audience in its deliberations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u109	Thank you. The head of the Committee on State Building and Local Government Affairs, Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovich, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u110	Vladimir Bondarenko, Viktor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Dear friends! Two bills submitted by our colleagues regulate certain articles of the Law on the Election of Deputies of Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. [[First Leschenko and Nosenko, second Klukkowski]] Considering that the subject of regulating these articles is different areas and they do not cross each other, the committee, considering each other's bills, supported them and recommended to the Supreme Council that they be accepted on the basis of both. But while working on the committee, unite them into a single bill and submit them to this room as a single bill in a second reading. What Lechchenko and Nosenko have to offer is to fill out the ballot; this. What Klukkowski suggests refers to some of the other articles that he highlighted. And what needs to be done today is life itself suggests both the experience of Poltava and the experience of Kiev, when about 700 local council candidates were removed from the city of Kiev on one day. The already active deputies of those councils were removed from registration by the Commission of the Court of Justice, for no other reason, because it seemed to anyone that the explanatory note of the Central Electoral Commission said that the candidate for the deputy district council in Kiev was to reside in the territory of a particular region. At the same time, we know that all Chinese have the same right, are members of the same community, and therefore, in our view, the right of citizens to vote has been grossly violated. We also know in the city of Kiev and other areas of the situation where the election was deliberately canceled on formal grounds in relation to one person and the deputy became other citizens, which is not entirely consistent with the actual choice of those who voted. Thus, all these questions are not such that they can be set aside for adoption of a new law or such that they can be released from our sphere of influence and regulation today. We believe that this law is valid today because the reelections of rural, rural, urban, and local council members are constantly taking place in connection with the fact that someone is simply dying, someone is depriving himself of authority, and so on. So this system, it works independently of the general election. So we ask the committee to support these bills, to take them as a basis in the first reading. And for the second reading, to pass them together as a single bill, because it applies to the same law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u111	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. Next Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u112	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Country, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenka's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to those who have made changes, and to the deputies of Lechchenko, and Nosenko, and to the deputy of Klukkowski, and Slavuti, and Bondarenko, who have proposed amendments to the laws on the election of deputies of local councils, village, village and city heads. But, dear friends, if you go into these laws, once you talk about it, why don't we write some more, let's make the boxes transparent so that the counterfeiting is not allowed. Today, this is being done worldwide. Do you not see what is happening in those lands where they see that the vote is clearly wrong? I mean, our colleagues from the former SND? So make changes to these laws, let's predict that. In the form of a newsletter, you predict, you owe. Let's see this coming. I don't generally have any comments on the bill that Leschenko and Nosenko passed, and I have a number of comments on another bill -- 3324 -- and I think they have to be taken into account. What comments? I mean, in article nine, you suggest that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide on the election of local councils, rural, rural, urban, instead of those who have erupted. I am as indignant as you are, as there is no mayor in Poltava, there was no case in Kirovgrad, as there was in Yalta, such cases were much in the modern history of Ukraine. But it has to be prescribed in the law. And not to say that it's on a case-by-case basis going to be accepted by the Supreme Council instead of even those deputies that have erupted. Why? Because of the number of local councils of 446 city councils, 93 district councils in cities, 790 in urban villages. 10227 village councils, and if we make a commitment on each occasion instead of the outstretched or the heads, or the deputies making decisions by the Supreme Council, then I'll tell you that we have a day's schedule of elections, elections, elections. No further questions will be considered. That's different and I have to settle for the adoption of the first reading, but there are other mechanisms for adopting changes to this law. Another question. The question raised in article 6 is that a loving person, regardless of his place of residence, should go to the local council or the city’s head. Is that right or wrong? Because we're talking about the territorial community. And I believe that only a member of this territorial community can choose. Just a member, I repeat, of this territorial community. And by the way, that's what's done in Europe. Another question is, you want to choose there, go there for a little bit of food, and so you know and you can represent that region. Thank you. I still have the notes, I'll write them in kind when the first reading is accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u113	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u114	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The bill on this issue, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Volodymyr Leschenko and Mikola Nosenko from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, is extremely relevant and essential. In part 4 of article 44 of the Act on the Election of Deputies of Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads, it is indeed not clear how many candidates in the constituency should vote for a particular elector. Therefore, this article of the law needs to be supplemented by provisions on the limitation of the number of candidates for which a particular electorate has the right to vote, the number of mandates given in the much-mandated constituency. In fact, it is also necessary to add to the part of the third article of the 45th named law that the ballots against the names of more candidates than the number of mandates in a given district should be considered invalid when voting in multi-mandatory districts. Unrealistics should also be recognized as unspecified ballots, unsigned ballots provided for in article 40 of the law, and ballot papers that do not include any marks. The law must clearly state that election committees are exclusively involved. Involvement in the electoral process of local public administrations and authorities should be classified as a violation of the law and the perpetrators should be held accountable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u115	Thank you. Boris Bespali is not. Mikhailo Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u116	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region I'm going to act on Bill 3324, author Yuri Bogdanovich. And what I'm saying is that, really, this has touched on the problematic issues that there are today, and the cases that happen in life when we apply the election laws to local councils. Well, in my opinion, the author has made some changes to article 9 on re-election deadlines. Because we are with you today to witness that really the Supreme Council will have to intervene in these processes, because in places or the head of the district government, or this district government, if it hasn't found a suitable candidate in that constituency, it's delaying elections, not taking measures, and sometimes district councils are also adapted to administrations, not taking measures, law is being violated, the prosecutor is reacting, not responding. And we have prosecutors in some appropriate regions, and we know which ones, too, look not at the law, but at the authority. And that's why I think so. This is true, and so such changes need to be made. Both I and the Socialist Party faction are confident that we, Yuri Bogdanovich, will support you in this direction. Regarding article 17, which regulates the procedure for the formation of district commissions. Yuri Bogdanovich, I am addressing you as an experienced legislator who is no longer the first call in the Supreme Council. In my opinion, how would this set a standard for the rotation of the heads of the district commissions? I could give a lot of examples across Ukraine, but I'm just going to touch the Novoselicke constituency of the Cherniewec region. The head of the district commission has been three times, it's an election fraud professional, and I'm saying it's for all of Ukraine, professionals. And such professionals are being raised by the authorities to falsify the next election. It's already taught people how to do it. Elections in the Novoselice constituency are falsified by elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and falsified by local councils. Members of the people who did not know at all have passed away. When I asked this question to the head of the district commission, there was no answer. Apparently, they found the election with their earnings, and we're legislator on this, so to speak, there are no obstacles. So it would be desirable, Yuri Bogdanovich, if on second reading the possible rotation would be these heads of the district commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u117	Thank you. Eugene Gorenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u118	Honorable MPs, distinguished voters. Many thousands of local councils and village, village, city heads were elected in 2002. Both laws are valid, and therefore we have no opportunity to wait for new laws or new texts, and it is very good that the authors have raised these problems. I do not think that Leschchenka’s project removes all aspects of counterfeiting, which was widespread in 2002 and 2003, which is very good for elections in a multi-mandate district, when three, four or five elected deputies of the district or district council of the respective committees put the stakes and choose the one they need. Of course, they're going to have this possibility, but it's going to reduce it, because they're going to be forged ballots. Also, you might have to make a reservation, even though it's not entirely valid, that's a smaller number, and it also doesn't correspond to the ability of voters to choose a sufficient number of deputies. I think it's very relevant to elect those people who haven't been elected for a year and a half and a half, and an example might be my situation, because at the same time, elected as the deputy of the Supreme Council and the deputy of the Johno-Frankow District Council, and somehow the Johno-Frankow District Council has not yet appointed elections in my district and accordingly the Kaluzk Electoral District is now discriminated against in this respect. I don't think it's that important whether in this law or in the Elections Act this rule is going to be written, I don't see any harm if it's written here, and we're not going to be dealing with this problem all the time. Because it is only in some exceptional cases that these successive elections are not scheduled when it is necessary for some individuals to do so. And it's the influence of the Supreme Council that would matter. And one more problem I'd like to draw attention to. The district council’s members are practically many of the heads of the district government, and there can be no measure by law. What's more, they can't, let's say, run for mayor of town and district council. I think it's unfair for two or three equal candidates to compete, one of them is certainly winning, and the other that could claim that role is completely out of power. The other thing about being on two chairs and the mayor is, at the same time, a member of the district council has to be banned. But the possibility of running for these two positions has to be foreseen, I think that's going to be possible on the second reading. I believe that both laws should be adopted in the first reading, unified, and put into effect.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u119	Thank you. Anatoly Hare's government, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u120	Thank you. The Ministry of Justice supports the adoption of these bills because it believes they are aimed at improving electoral procedures. Of course, it would have been best if all of these improvements had already taken place in the new electoral law, but it would have been really long to wait, so since these issues are very relevant today, we think that it is possible to clarify the wording of the existing law today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u121	Thank you. The question has been considered. Let's move on to the next one. Done. You didn't sign up. It's okay. It's okay. Please, if there's anything to say to the closing word, please. Bondarenko Volodymira Dmitrovich. It's a closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u122	Vladimir Bondarenko, city of Kiev, faction of Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine". I would like to refer to some of the presentations that have been made here. Either their authors didn't quite understand the essence of the changes that are being proposed, or there's some kind of confusion. What's the point? Jury Karmazin’s speech raised a challenge. That the law should address election problems in those districts of local councils where the local councils themselves do not determine the date of these elections, that is, they specifically ignore the need for them to be held. Well, that's exactly what we're doing. We rule by law that in cases where the local council itself does not do so, the Supreme has the right to do so. I mean, we're not talking about re-electing the function of assigning local elections to the Supreme Council. We only speak in these cases. And there are a few cases in the election cycle, which is Poltava specifically. There may still be one or two such cases in Ukraine. Therefore, it is necessary to have an election mechanism when the local council ignores its right. The other one. This is about the situation: A citizen of Ukraine may be elected to a local council, either in the country or elsewhere. Article 24 of the Ukrainian Constitution directly states that citizens have equal constitutional rights and freedoms and are equal before the law, there can be no privileges or restrictions on the signs of race, color, skin, political, religious and other beliefs, sex, ethnic and social status, property status, place of residence. So no citizen can be discriminated against depending on where he lives. According to Ukrainian legislation, every citizen can apply for his or her election wherever he or she wants. If he doesn't live there, if he doesn't do anything, it's the will of the citizens. I think Yuri Anatoliyovich and others who have spoken, as well as other deputies, can make dozens of other proposals, that'll be good. When we work on the second reading, we will certainly take all these suggestions into account in the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u123	Thank you. Question completed. Let's move on to the next one. The vote will take place under the Rules. Mikhail Antonovich, we have a very important question today about the Antarctic activity. Please prepare, and you will have the opportunity to speak on this subject. We are now considering 1227 of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Violations of Deputies. Reporting by Ukrainian national deputy Markusz Maria Andriyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u124	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Bill 1227, submitted by me and the Ukrainian national deputy Gorbachev and Fialkowski, proposed to remove the gap in existing legislation. That's 24 of the Ukrainian Citizens' Appeal Act, where it's about the responsibility of officials for violating legislation on citizens' appeal. Those guilty of violating this law bear civil, administrative, or criminal responsibility. The Ukrainian Act on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine contains provisions on the responsibility of officials with reference to their application in the order established by law. However, Ukraine's current legislation does not provide any responsibility for violating the order or time frame of reference of national MPs and citizens or for failing to provide answers. These changes will help to survive the current practice of breaking these two laws and overcoming bureaucracy. The bill is proposed to supplement the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences of Article 186 with a badge of 6 and 187 with a badge of 7, which states in Article 186 with a badge of 6 which acts are recognized as administrative offences in the law of turning citizens. This is an illegal refusal to accept or consider a citizen's appeal; an illegal refusal to exercise his or her rights as a citizen in relation to the personal presentation of the arguments of the person who examines the citizens' appeal; the submission of additional materials to the request; such materials of the body which examines the appeal; the examination of the materials of the examination of these at the request; the referral of a citizen's complaint to the authority or the official person whose action or decision is alleged to be in practice at all times. The citizens complain that the individuals on whom they have repeatedly filed complaints laugh at them and say: “Reply, complain, and be willing to go higher, and all these complaints will then come to us, and we will give you an answer. It is also a violation of the legal terms of the citizen’s notice of the outcome of the examination of the petitions, of the citizen’s ignorance of the outcome of the examination of his appeal. These actions must be done in the absence of signs of corruption. The article also holds citizens responsible for re-infringing legislation on the conversion of citizens throughout the year. In article 186, with the symbol “Seven”, which is proposed to supplement the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, it is the responsibility of failing to meet the legal requirements of the Ukrainian National Deputy, namely the artificial creation of obstacles to its work, the failure to meet the deadlines for providing information or providing untrue and unreliable information about the absence of signs of corruption and the strengthening of administrative responsibility for these actions. If they were made by a person again over the course of the year. The bill also proposes to amend article 14 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences - "Responsibility of Officials" and to make it more clear. It is also proposed that article 38 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences be supplemented by part three, where it is provided that the terms of administrative engagement provided for in part one and in part two of article 38 do not extend to cases where the constitutional rights of citizens are guaranteed and not to meet the legal requirements of the Ukrainian National Deputy, in which the administrative engagement may be imposed no later than one year from the date of the commission of the offence, but to a continuing offence, a year from the date of its disclosure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u125	Do you have everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u126	All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u127	Thank you, have a seat, please. She reports to the deputy head of the Committee on Legislative Security, the law enforcement activities of Sinchenko Sergey Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u128	Dear National Deputies! In the law on the status of the Ukrainian national deputy, it is the right of the national deputy to address the leaders, to demand action, to receive answers, and so forth. There is also the responsibility of managers to respond, respond, and respond to requests from national deputies. But there is absolutely no responsibility for those who do not act, do not act, do not answer, do so. This gap in the law is being tried by the national deputy Gorbachev, Markusz, and the authors of the bill. The Committee on Law Enforcement has carefully considered, twice considered, this bill and considers it fit for approval in the first reading. The report is complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u129	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to national deputy Yuri Karmazin, next to Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u130	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear national MPs, now individual national MPs, especially me, receive up to 50 appeals a day. Ukrainian citizens complain that the requirements of the Citizens' Appeal Act are completely ignored. Moreover, yesterday at a meeting with the Attorney General of Ukraine with our faction, I told him that I had to send him 7 addresses. It doesn't come from the first. Seven different questions. Irresponsible quotations. Illiteracy slips that go. So the very idea is very good at making changes, and I thank the people's deputies and Marcus, and Gorbachev and Filkovsky, who introduced this bill. Unfortunately, the execution is somewhat imperfect, so to speak. Well, that's a question. I think that this can be corrected in a second reading. In particular, I believe that it is necessary to record that a citizen's complaint is being sent to the authorities or officials whose decisions are being challenged, as well as a gross violation of the terms of the citizen's notice of the outcome of the appeal or of the citizen's miscommunication of them, if such actions have been committed intentionally or because of unconscionable or unconscionable treatment of official duties. So write down this pattern of crime. Dear National MPs, I'm sorry, but all the time, all the heads of state do exactly what they do to those bodies that are being complained of by Ukrainian citizens. This has to be the main one. Ignorance of the MP and so on is also a crime. This is provided for in the Criminal Code. But also in the Administrative Code, I support the drafters. I'm pointing out that in Kharkiv district, I've already written ten times to the Attorney General, who's stolen property, state property today, because the verdict of the court is going to be state, 6 million dollars. The prosecutor in Kharkiv County is covering this. And where do the complaints go? Prosecutor of Kharkiv County. Okay? I think there's gonna be an authority that's gonna break a criminal case. And I've been paying attention and paying attention to the Attorney General. Requisitions against the brothers of Buryak, after the theft. If you don't do what's required by law, we're going to initiate the establishment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry. I think we need to support this bill, but we need to write a separate article saying, "No fulfilment of the legal requirements of the Ukrainian National Deputy," where there will be a violation of the term. And who should make the protocols: the protocols should consist not only of a girl-secretary of the court, but also of an assistant counsellor of the national MP, who has the seventh rank of civil servant. What are we turning them into? He has the right to make a protocol: both the head of the secretariat and the deputy head of the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u131	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u132	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština I fully agree with the changes made to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. All of this with the aim of installing an administrative responsibility for violating the order or terms of consideration of parliamentary appeals by Ukrainian MPs and citizens' appeals. The proposed changes will help to eliminate the gaps in existing legislation, since we have a number of examples of irresponsible attitudes of officials to citizens when they did not respond to citizens’ requests or to give a non-professional answer or just get write-offs. The changes that have been proposed will have a positive effect on the activities of public officials, the obligation to follow the terms of reference of citizens and national deputies in a timely and accurate manner, and above all help to overcome existing bureaucracy. With the adoption of these changes to the draft law, I am sure that the citizens also support us, who so await at least verbal help. Taking advantage of the opportunity to consider the addition to the law, I would like to point out that in my view the work of the Supreme Council in the person of Lithuania by Vladimir Mikhailovich on the consideration of parliamentary inquiries and appeals, with the qualified, deep and also with the signature of the person to whom a particular request or appeal is addressed. I would like to point out today that it is pleasant and interesting to work with the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Transport, Kirpa, and the Attorney General’s Office, where a number of issues are resolved positively when you find the support and understanding of high - morning officials. And I never got an answer from my former secretary of defense for one of my questions. But I think it's just wrong. In the following answer to my questions and appeals and a positive solution to the problems raised by the minister of defense, Marchuk will be given at the proper time, for Eugene Kirilovich is also our countryman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u133	Thank you. Boris Bespali. Would you please say yes or no? Two for the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u134	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Boris Bespaliy, Viktor Yushchenk's bloc faction, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, everyone knows that there are problems with responding to parliamentary appeals and queries. Often these are just formal receipts. By the way, it's my experience of cooperation, if you can call it cooperation, with the Attorney General's Office, that they're prone to formal feedback. The MPs are systematically answered, not by those to whom they refer, but at best by substitutes, but even by lower - ranking officials. The answer is not, in effect, and so on. But one of the voters and our listeners may wonder whether they are concerned about themselves when they try to establish responsibility for improper treatment. I don't think it's at all about myself, because it's only about the rights and protection of the legitimate interests of the electorate that are being asked and asked by the MPs. Their personal problems are virtually never written, so it is really about protecting the interests of voters who are very often simply helpless in front of officials. When you have to ask about this scheme: Comrade Kishti, from a citizen of the Mouse, please help and do not insult. At the same time, there is a problem that, in my opinion, makes this law something that needs to be worked out. I can't unreservedly support him. And that's what this is about. We have such a very good mechanism, such as a parliamentary address, which does not require a transfer to the session hall, that any MP can direct a parliamentary address. Lately, we've had an excessive number of queries, and this stops the work of the Supreme Council on issues that can be resolved or called by a deputy without a vote in the session room. I don't know, someone might want to call it a nickname once on the radio, but if a chicken ran into a nearby town, it's not a question for the MPs to ask. And from this point of view, I think, by addressing the issue of the responsibility of officials for such mistreatment, irresponsible treatment of parliamentary questions, I think we should also be in the law that regulates rules and the status of deputies, just laying down rules that would not take up too long of the work of the sessional Supreme Council on issues that can be resolved in the working order. So I think that this bill, thanks to its authors for drawing our attention once again to protecting the interests of the electorate, is to focus their activity on working on it in such a way that this protection is not declarative, but really effective. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, is anyone else against this law? It doesn't, does it? Consider this question. Yeah, one minute. From the government we have a deputy minister of justice, Jemelyanov Inna Ivanovna. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear Hennaday Andriyovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Ministry of Justice supports the need for regulation at the legislative level and the establishment of responsibility for violating the legislation on citizens' recourse, as well as for failure to meet the legal requirements of the Ukrainian National Deputy. But at the same time, I would like to draw the attention of the country’s distinguished national deputies to some of the flaws of this bill. In particular, it was not appropriate to link responsibility with the absence of signs of corruption in these warehouses, administrative offences. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the amendment and addition of the Code by a new article on the non-fulfilment of the legal requirements of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. This article, contrary to the law on the status of a national MP, has increased the number of subjects to be held accountable. In particular, it's extended by "unpossessed persons." It's on the one side. On the other hand, such responsibility as the official body of local self - government has been lost. In addition, the amendments to article 38 of the Ukrainian Code on Offences include an extension of the length of time required for these offences to one year. Notice that the general statute of limitations is set at 2 months. Thank you. I think it's during the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u137	Thank you. Question completed. As for the vote, it will take place in accordance with the Rules. Dear colleagues! I'd like to consult you. Several times, we have been asked 3339 questions. This is a draft law amending the U.K. Oil and Gas Act. [[on the employment of persons with disabilities in the oil and gas sector]] I'd like you to consider this in 10 minutes and move on to the Miscellaneous. Is there no objection? I'm going to go on for this time, and I'm going to go on and on and on and on and on and on and on. Okay? The broadcast will be in 15 hours.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u138	Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, several times, this question has been put to the test.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, ten times this question has been passed on and on. Let me finish this law in two minutes and we'll take the problem off.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u141	Okay. Mikola Mikolaiovich, let's put it up for the plenary week so that we can look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u143	And here's Antarctica, how do you feel about that? Antarctica is a very important question. You can't. All right, let's move on to the Vulnerable. Light up, please. Hare Ivan Alexanderovich, please. "Crazy."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u144	Dear National Deputies! There are a few problems, and most people are now being harassed. This is a lack of work and unemployment. No social protection for citizens and corruption, no abuse of officials who literally destroy the nation. In this situation, the government seems to have to take such measures to create millions of jobs in a short time. People don't need charity, they need the job they pay for. There will be work -- there will be prospects for young people, there will be prestigious pensions. One such step could be to further reduce the tax press to small businesses, small businesses that are already foot - based. What do we see in reality? Everything's the other way around. The 2004 State Budget Project has set up a substantial multiple increase in the price of a trade patent in fixed and single taxes. The Ukrainian People’s Party rejects such policies. We will protect small entrepreneurs, their right to normal conditions for difficult activities. At the same time, I want to draw your attention to a less important problem, which is already knocking on every citizen's door -- nature conservation. A violent destructive attack on the environment is unfolding. The matter has gone so far as to destroy not only the green areas in cities, especially in Kiev, or the valleys of the rivers, as is the case in the Kyiv region in front of the presidential, governmental houses in Conch Zaspa, but the threat of destruction has led to the destruction of protected objects, entire rivers. For the second decade, attempts have been made to destroy the unique area of South Bug, in natural and historical terms, from the town of Pervomaysk to the village of Alexandrovka Mikolaiyivsk, where the regional landscape park “Granite Steps Pobrzeża” is now functioning, destroying old technical projects in the energy field. The natural uniqueness of this park is its extraordinary geological and landscape value. In this area, the South Bug flows among the deep rocky canyons, creating beautiful landscapes with rocky exits to the cembrian crystalline ranges along the thresholds, islands, streams, and cramps. There are more than a hundred species of animals and several dozen species of plants that are included in the Red Book of Ukraine and are subject to special protection. The historical uniqueness of the park is that there are a large number of paleolithic parks and tropical settlements. These places have to do with the history of Zaporozhye Sici, where the Bogogardian collection of Cossacks, among other things, was located. All of this will be destroyed if we allow a project to raise the water level from the Alexanderian watershed in connection with the construction of the Taslic Gaes. I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers, to the Minister of Environmental Protection, to the MPs of the Mikolai District Council, and to realize that the construction of the Taslic Hydroaccumulative Power Plant to three and then more, to four or six aggregates is a completely unproductive project from an energy point of view and harmful from an ecological point of view. The problems of peak power grids will not be solved in this way, and everyone knows this, but environmental equilibrium in the region will be disrupted, and a range of serious risks associated with the functioning of the South Ukrainian nuclear power plant will be born. I'm calling on the MPs of the Mikolai District Council not to decide to remove land from the regional park of the City Steps of Pobužja, because you're going to start such a dangerous precedent for the first time. I would like to report that today the Supreme Council addressed by 237 votes a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine to take urgent measures to prevent the threat from the regional landscape park "Granite Steps of Pobrzega". This request was initiated by 175 national deputies of virtually all the factions of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u145	Thank you. Igor Storm, next Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u146	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The 2004 State Budget Project's increase in fixed tax and single tax rates is unacceptable from an economic and social point of view. Inevitably, it will lead to the collapse and shade of small businesses, the rise in unemployment, and social tensions in society. In the first quarter of the year alone, the number of small businesses decreased by 7.5 thousand. Ukraine's Social-Democratic Party is firmly against efforts to solve budgetary problems by increasing fiscal pressure on small businesses. [[united]] The state must support it in every way, not create new artificial barriers for entrepreneurs. Only this approach can really ensure that small business contributions are increased, that revenue is raised to the budget. We fully support the President's proposal, which, on July 15, last year, at the All-U.S. Business Council, condemned attempts to distort or even reject the simplified methods of taxation and accounting. As a result, the faction of SDPU(o) will vote against the government's proposed increase in single and fixed taxes. It also considers it appropriate to use a special commercial patent in resort areas. The relevant bill has been introduced by our representatives to the Supreme Council. As a political force that has assumed part of the responsibility for state affairs in the state, it cannot support a decision that threatens to deepen the crisis in small business, to cause significant damage to a large part of society. Social Democrats call on members of the Supreme Council not to allow decisions to be made that effectively reverse the small gains in small business that have been made possible through an active small business taxation system. And one more question that I want to raise. For some years now, the Ukrainian Parliament has declared the need for a civilised solution to a whole range of social security problems for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, released for various reasons. Today, the most pressing issue that concerns this category of citizens is compliance with the obligations of the authorities to provide housing according to existing regulations. In Lviv today, 720 families of Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania are awaiting a solution to the housing problem. In line with the housing programme for military personnel released from reserve, for the construction and acquisition of housing for military personnel involved in hostilities in Afghanistan and for military conflicts in foreign countries, members of families of military personnel who were killed in carrying out their duties, as well as military personnel who were released or retired from their health status, the age, benefit of the years 2000-2002 were channelled to 18.4 million dollars of budget expenditure. This enabled the building of 230 apartments and, to some extent, to improve housing conditions. In 2003, a subsidy of 7.4 million bracelets was allocated to address this housing problem in Lviv. However, the housing problem is not solved. The 2004 Ministry of Finance provides the Lviv Region with a budget subsidy of one and a half million dollars, which is less than 5 times as high as 2003. And this problem needs 26. Dear colleagues, with the aim of avoiding social tension in the region, please ask the High Council Budget Committee, the Ministry of Finance and the relevant structures of the Ministry of Defence to agree on the possibility of increasing the estimated amounts of subsidies for 2004 -- at least 7 million dollars -- that is to say last year's level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u147	Alexander Frost. Next Vladimir Yavorowski. Please follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u148	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished deputies and dear listeners. I would like to comment briefly on yesterday’s events, for many have already spoken on this subject, and today they will speak on television and swear opposition, including the Socialist Party, its faction. I want to give you a reason why we had to go to Parliament yesterday to block the session. In Ukraine, the systemic crisis: food, prices have risen by 40 percent, for example, in the Hmelnicka region, in the area where the largest per capita has gathered bread this year; energy; social; municipal; the crisis of entrepreneurship, which my colleagues have just spoken about; and the political crisis. [[frozen salaries and pensions]] The political crisis is the cause of all the troubles that exist in the state today. It turns out that trust in the Supreme Council today is 7-9 percent in society. And we, MPs, should not be happy that the President has 4-5 percent, because that means that the crisis in general trust in power. And the way to change the situation and remove all of the crises is through political reform, the first step to which is elections on a proportional basis. That's what we were trying to do yesterday, what we're going to do next. What Vladimir Litwin, Head of the Supreme Council, said yesterday, threatens the dissolution of parliament, believe us: it does not frighten us. The opposition does not fear the dissolution of parliament, but will not initiate it. What's more, we've talked to the leaders of the opposition political factions today, and if that happens, we'll even make arrangements for the only election list based on the results of 2002. And then, I go to my oligarch friends, you don't have money or administrative resources to help you. Keep that in mind. A proportional election is a way out of this situation, including for you. Let's just make sure that you respect your President, and the words don't go away with the election work the same way as the other things. This is where he went to Libya, you see, worried that the opposition wasn't working. And he went to Libya to find work for the Ukrainians, and he said so. And now he's going to South America, looking for a job for the Ukrainians. In Europe, thank you, I've already found 7 million people working there. We change the political system, change the electoral system, then we find a job for the Ukrainians in Ukraine. And then the state will be strengthened and all the problems that have become critical today will be solved. I declare this on behalf of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u149	Vladimir Yavorowski, next to Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u150	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine, Yavorov, Zovva, Lvivščina. Dear voters and honourable colleagues, today, there have been so many problems in the patriotic and thinking Ukrainian soul that we should talk about from this rostrum. And that's just what Alexander Alexander Frost was talking about, and I'm joining him. We also need to talk about the cartoon political reform that we've been involved in, and the Odessa-Boda oil pipeline, and the unprecedented and unforgivable aggression that Russia is making, I'm sure, with our absolute agreement with our authority in order to lead the military. And then you can rule as much as you want. So if you'll excuse me and the voters and the colleagues that I'm going to talk about other things, they're no less important to me. I don't expect power or spices, I know what I'm going to do with my letters and speeches. But what they're doing with Ukrainian intelligence right now, including the National Association of Writers, is probably a completely unique option in human history to intervene in the creative organization. I want you to know, Mr. Medvedchuk. I'm very pleased, by the way, that I'm constantly distracting Medvedczuk's attention and his environment in Yavorowski, because he's told every day what you did against the Writer's and Yavorowski's specifically, less evil will do us, let them do better Yavorowski. But in Winnitz, the machine of the head of the administration rides these unfortunate writers, whom the authorities have led to the poor, literally, being today, carrying him a piece of sausage and asking him to sign against Yavorowski for the next assembly. That's exactly what Poltava is doing, that's exactly what it is. People do what they can to resist. It's never been like this before. I'm talking to the writers. Dearly beloved! We're gonna make it. The writer’s association was a spiritual ploy, the last bastion that is. If we don't stand up, artists can't stand up, singers can't stand it, because the Writers' Society was on the edge of political life. Don't give up, we've got about 380 days left to survive under this occupying power, and it's led you to this state today. And they come to you and lie that you're gonna get your pension. Well, that's a lie. The pension can only be raised by Parliament under the conditions of making money and not by the same, first and foremost, by the ésdecés involved. Dear fellow writers! We were on the verge of declaring Ukrainian independence. We are being watched by society today, if we are broken, the people will be broken. I believe that you can stand it. I'm absolutely sure of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u151	Vladimir Puzakov, next Slabenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u152	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. Today's power of its free economic and social policy, creating an acute problem in all spheres of life, is determined to address it in the best way to change the headache to cut off the headache. This is what they do to their own people. There is no secret that the powers that have been seized are the two main tasks of saving their skin: the extinction of veterans and the rule of the entire people in slavery by officials. Because veterans are the most active part of the people, yet living witnesses of “human” life in the near Soviet past. Pretzels always destroy witnesses. That's why the authorities kick veterans out of life by the Fuhrer's concentration camps. They don't see the authorities, and they don't want to see how our people live, and especially a pensioner with a miserable pension, which is two or three times below the established minimum of living. Continuous inflation processes, uncontrollable and ever-increasing prices for utilities, transport services, food and medicines. The people were led to extreme poverty, and Mr. President promised to help Africa fight poverty without seeing “Ukrainian Africans” sitting in garbage containers. You, Mr. President, need to drive, not with dark glass in your car, but to drive past garbage cans to see where Ukrainian niggers live 24 hours a day, and then you may have to figure out where and what the first long it takes to fight. What word can be used to describe the violation by the authorities of the legitimate rights of those who shed their blood with weapons, protecting their homeland from fascist dishonesty and those who waged victory in the rear, working in factories, factories, mines, mines and colossal fields, which have revived after the war the people's farms of the country, who have been on the watch for the safety of the family, and protecting the peaceful work of the Soviet people cannot be seen as a cynical mockery of them. That's what a gift it was to these people in honor of the 60th anniversary of their country's victory, 60 years later, they became a burdensome ballast. Although words of appreciation, love and respect are given to them on the Day of the Victory of 1941-1945, in reality they are given enough. They're already being waved with their hands like they did in Lviv. Because in order to solve a veteran's question about his personal life or his companion's life, you have to go around dozens of cabinets, hear insults, humiliations, or get formal receipts that just humiliate the human person. For example, there is a veteran of war and labour in Kirovograd, an honorary citizen of the city, a folk artist of Ukraine Krivohijin Anatoli Mihajlović, who is known not only for the region of Ukraine, but also for the narrow and balinous abroad. In spite of nothing, he had to go so far as to gain unpleasant words and formal answers in the course of a year, that he had not heard it in his life and only because he had stood up for the needy. So why are we so soulless and tough? Instead of being sensitive to such a person, we throw out all the unknown where the snake venom came from. How will we address them on the day of the 60 ’ s? True, there is nothing to be surprised about, but anti - national authority can do anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u153	Sergei Slabenko, next to Ivchenko. Please follow the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u154	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Voters of Volina! On March 3, this year, I and the national deputy Bondar prepared a parliamentary request for the formation of the 2003 Capital Construction Program in our constituencies in the Volin region. The parliamentary inquiry was supported in the session room by the national deputies. The Cabinet of Ministers replied and indicated that a list of objects formed by the Volin Authority for the financing of objects financed by state - budget subsidies and investment purposes had not been accepted by the Supreme Council Committee on Budgeting since 15 April 2003 because of the lack of signatures of national deputies from the Volin region. Instead, a list was supported in the Volinsky region, which was being set up by all the national deputies. I didn't stop right now. Because it was very difficult to share that small government money. And for every penny there was a principled conversation. What's on the Wall today? One of the objects financed by the budget is the Lubomir District Hospital, along with the hospital. The minister’s office reported that its readiness rate was 55 percent and offered to set aside 250,000. Last week, at a working meeting in the adjuvant with her head, Anatolia Frencha, the question was raised that this hospital was in a critical condition, that some of the building materials and other values had been stolen, internal work had begun to deteriorate, as the heating was not available on the facility. This, in my view, is a vivid example of the lack of self - control and unconscionable attitude toward the performance of their duties as officials of the administration. That's how the government keeps the money that comes from the budget. So I also have doubts about other objects that are being built on Volina today. So I'm asking the Cabinet of Ministers to send a commission of experts and check how the funds coming from the State Budget on the Wall are used. It's not their acquisition, it's not a write-off when the audit board says, "Yes, it's got and written off." And check for criteria such as the appropriateness of investing in work, efficiency, and a real economic approach. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u155	Thank you. Yvchenko. The next one is Carmazine. Please, Alexy Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u156	Alexy Ivchenko, faction of our Ukraine, head of the Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists. It's me for those who don't know it yet. Dear friends, I have dozens of appeals from the district, city, district councils of the people's deputies, in which they express their negative attitude about signing our guarantor's agreement on a single economic space. But I didn't go to this rostrum to read these decisions and not to discuss the only economic space that has no perspective in our society. This is where I came out to protect and help the faction of the regions, unfortunately no representative of which there is no one on the Supreme Council today, because who will protect them, the poor? That's why I'm talking to them on the air: boys, get lost and get back, can't you see you're being divorced like a cat on ice? Stop pouring water on not yours, not yours, not yours, the mill, because when your countrymen, the Donkey miners, start taking you out of your cabinets, I can guarantee you one thing as friends, because I have a great respect for the Donetsk Region and I have a lot of friends there. I guarantee you that we will give you shelter in our Western Ukraine. There's still a safe house. So, friends, be wise, think, you're pragmatists! Finally, I would like to read just one summary address of the fifteenth century, which was held on October 14, in the city of Equinah, on the day of God’s Mother’s Protection. "President Leonid Kuchmi of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Litvina! We, members of the People's Evening, require President Kuchma, his pocket majority in the Supreme Council, to stop actions aimed at the return of Ukraine to Russia, to withdraw all bills aimed at preventing the universal election of the real Ukrainian President, to ensure transparent national presidential elections, as well as proportional elections to the Supreme Council and local councils, to immediately adopt the law on the recognition of UPA soldiers as fighters for the will and independence of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u157	As a representative of the faction of the region, I would like to say, Your Honor Alexia, you still have time to address the Donetsk region, and Donbas as a whole for support, with help. If we divorce you like this: this is Western Ukraine, this is Eastern Ukraine, and someone depends on someone, giving priority, we won't have the only Ukraine. I'd like them to pay attention. And you don't have to do that, so let's do that. Let's help each other! We live in one country! Please, Yuri Carmazin. Next up, there's Nadjajko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u158	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday no television channel showed that yesterday the MPs demanded the presence of the President of Ukraine, the High Commander, and the Prime Minister, and their message of betrayal on Tuzla's hair, and their message of opinion that they think that we, the Ukrainian people, should determine how we should behave in relation to them. Because in accordance with the Constitution, the Ukrainian people have the right to oppose, including such leaders, if they give up the interests of the State. It's called extreme necessity. I remind them of that, and we will take advantage of that right. I was approached by the head of the Alubkin City Center of the Party of Protectors of the Motherland of the Kings in connection with an alarming collective statement made by residents of the village of Gurzuf of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. According to the contract, since January 1997, the executive committee of the Gurzuf Village Council has handed over to the International Children's Centre "Artek" an area of 5.8 hectares on the condition of use for 15 years under the beach. During the conclusion of the specified contract on behalf of the Executive Committee, Kostharov, who according to the applicants had no authority to do so, did not hold any office in the Gurzuf Village Council. We come to the conclusion that the contract is made by a back number and by unauthorized persons. Under the circumstances, the actions of the officials of the Gurzuf Village Council provide for signs of crime, as provided for in article 366 of the Criminal Code, “Serving Counterfeiting. ” On leased land plots are residential buildings, the Tatar Cemetery, a free area of 9.5 hectares [9.5 ha]. The beach. This thoughtless transfer of land has been reflected negatively and is already reflected in their intended use, confusing the locals. Article 44 of the Code of Land is violated when deciding on the transfer of the specified land. I have to say that in general, the Artek Children's International Center is uncontrollable and self-governable new lands that are being used for purposes other than children's rest. The use of these lands in the State Budget does not pay a penny. To this day, local residents have been granted access to homes where they have lived for decades. Access to the sea is completely overturned. Practically, conditions for voluntary abandonment are being created. It's my place. I also pay attention to numerous violations. I've already made a statement from this rostrum about what's going on with the sanitariums in Crimea. The Mountain Sun sanatorium, designated specializing in the treatment of lung tuberculosis, is set for 260 beds-towns, leased for 49 years to a closed stock company called the Novokramator Machinery Plant. The lower cost of the core funds is more than 5 times, from 27 million to 5 million. Mr. Attorney-General, I'm asking you to send the Attorney-General to check on the Attorney-General for action and reports at the Supreme Council session on how our property is being stolen. I'm addressing the President, his representatives, and if you'll excuse the fact that the First Lady of the State is being abused by Artec, please make it public, because the citizens are writing to me about this. Thank you for your attention and for your efforts.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u159	Please, Anatoly Nastawa, next up is Oksana Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u160	There's a faction of communists. Respectable deputies, distinguished voters. I am forced to make a statement by the situation in the town of Dryzkovka Donetsk oblast around the once famous and only in the Donbassa porcelain plant. Against the background of the events there, there is a mockery of a bill aimed at compensating the loss of citizens'income due to a violation of their payment period. The current regime against its own people is the very example of genocide. I got a call from the employees of this factory. It's Early. The debt on salary has reached a million dollars. The recovery plan provides for the payment of arrears this year. But the place of the living money of the enterprises offers the workers their own products at more than twice the cost. Workers have no basic: food, clothing, utilities. Children especially suffer. Common diseases due to malnutrition. Mothers pick up living soup in the storeroom to feed their family. People took different steps. They're getting receipts all over the place. In fact, I received a write-off from the Prime Minister and the leader of the Regional Party when I applied for the facts of injustice. By the way, the whole Friends area and the slogan area - "The Party of the Regions - All for Man". Where is it all?? They don't get paid for years. The workers'factories have applied to the court for payment of salaries. 390 claims of more than 1 million dollars have not been settled. The Division of Justice is not taking any action. Moreover, as the complainants say, and I have communicated with many of them on 26 September this year, the executive public service officials claim. I quote. "Think your money is gone." On my own behalf and on behalf of these people, I ask who was cheating on them. What remains to be done to people brought to poverty once again!? The answer is not specific in our State. It's impossible to find. There's no need to follow the evidence. Millions, without any material benefits, are born like mushrooms after the rain. And this is happening against the background of the general impoverishment of people. So what can we do to the deluded, to the offended, to the humiliated, to the bewitched one more time? The answer can be one: in a State where the ball is not governed by law, but by cynical lawlessness, where the right to force prevails, but by the powerless right to spit on the Constitution, you, respectable voters, have one thing to do: to resort to popular resistance and to fight for their rights. And as a miner, I say we don't need help from nationalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u161	Oksana Bilozer. The next Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u162	Oksana Bilozer, Victor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine", MP group "Solidarity." Dear fellow national MPs! Dear citizens of Ukraine, all those who can hear me now! I want to focus your attention on the difficult situation in the labor market in Ukraine and in line with the problems of Ukrainian earnings abroad, particularly in Italy, from which I have just returned. Unemployment is steadily rising, and the state still does not find ways to solve this social problem. Thus, our citizens are forced, usually illegally, to seek employment abroad, bringing $1 billion a year to Ukraine. According to unofficial data, there are now up to 15 million Ukrainian workers abroad, of whom more than 7 million are in European countries alone. And if we add an old diaspora to this fourth wave of emigration, we have 30-35 million Ukrainians outside Ukraine. So almost half of our people are in exile, and we've lost 4.5 million dead and unborn. Is this not a demographic disaster for the nation? We're just trying to accept with you the genocide of Ukrainians through the famines of the 20th, 30th centuries, and the 21st century has begun for us an economic, so-called, bloodless genocide, although it's not without blood. Last year 170 Ukrainian citizens who worked illegally abroad died. And in nine months of this year, 62. Working abroad illegally, our people are denied the protection of their rights, including old-age pensions, both by Ukraine and by the state of their temporary residence. In the absence of bilateral non-State agreements, the problem of Ukrainian earnings can in some way be controlled by the use of our diplomatic agencies to carry out consular accounting, and this is a priority task. The Ukrainian side should know first and foremost how real our employees are in one country or another. But in order to make a proper settlement, new consular facilities, additional premises, and adequate state security are required. Ironically, today the authorities of the countries of Ukrainian earnings know the real state of our emigration better than the Ukrainian authorities. Yes, Italy has more than half a million Ukrainian citizens on record, and the number is steadily increasing, with only nine and a half thousand of them in our consular records. And the Italian government is sounding 120,000. Today, in Italy, a Ukrainian national minority begins to form. In order to protect their interests, the Ukrainians convened the first Ukrainian Forum in Italy in May this year in Rome, where they started the creation of the All-Italian Society of the Ukrainians of Italy. By order of the coordinating board of this organization, I want to read the resolution of the forum of the Ukrainians of Italy. "We, Ukrainian citizens, representatives of the Ukrainian communities in Italy, convened the first forum in Rome on 10 May 2003 for the Ukrainians of Italy, "We will save the Ukrainian family." Having discussed in the sections, with the participation of the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Italian Parliamentarians, representatives of the Greek-Catholic Church and other social organizations, the current state of the Ukrainian family, examining the reasons and possible outcomes of the situation, we state the following. The complex political, economic situation in Ukraine, the absence of a national consolidating idea, high levels of unemployment, the loss of education, the loss of social content of human work, corruption in all spheres of social life, the transition of the economy of the state into shadow, the lack of adequate legal protection of citizens, the increase of criminalization of society, the loss of moral values, the destruction of national science and culture, the theft of national wealth, the virtual absence of pluralism of thought and freedom of speech, the paralysis of democratic transformations -- all of this has led to the global crisis of Ukrainian society in general and the Ukrainian family in particular. In search of a way out of this situation, millions of our fellow countrymen have gone abroad without hope.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u163	Oksana, much more?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u164	I'll just say what our community in Italy requires.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u165	That'll be right.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u166	So they demand the eradication of corruption, the rule of law "one for all," the creation of transparent, favourable conditions for the development of Ukrainian entrepreneurship, guaranteed social protection for the least protected sectors of the population, to improve temporary labour Ukrainian emigration in Italy, the immediate signing of an interstate agreement on Ukrainian workers in that country, the protection of their rights, the regulation, the so-called labour quota, the slaughter of rackets and customs at the border. We are convinced that the above conditions will allow for a change in the situation for the better, sowing faith in the future of their country, and contributing to the return of workers to their homeland. And if we ignore and fail to meet our requirements, we will take consistent steps by appealing to international institutions such as the Council of Europe and the United Nations.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u167	Oksana, how much time do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u168	..to demand the resignation of the acting President as a guarantor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u169	How much more time do you need, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u170	. In order to further consolidate the Ukrainians of Italy, the forum announces the creation of a coordinating board of the All-Italian Civil Society Organization of the Ukrainians of Italy. God is with us, Ukraine. One and a half thousand citizens of Ukraine signed in Italy. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u171	Mikhail Pavlovsky, please. The next Vernigora.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u172	Pavlovski, the faction of the block of Julia Timoshenko, Hmělničina Dear colleagues, voters! I want to draw attention to how power protects itself. You've heard all the trouble. Well, our president is looking for something in Africa, I think it would be very wise for him to stay there forever, and we would choose our own. It'd be okay. But as the authorities struggled, as Leonid Danilovich Kuchma said, we came to power so as not to lose power. That's their thesis. And to those who hinder them, they destroy them. I want to show Julia Timoshenko how the authorities are fighting the opposition. For the third time, the same application was made by the Attorney General of Piscoon, of course, to the Supreme Council of Banks. This is ridiculous. This is in a direct sense the ideaology of Goebbels, which is established in the media. And Goebbels taught that twenty times you have to repeat nonsense, they'll believe for the first time. And those who can tell the truth or the opposite will not be allowed to do so. You've never heard Timoshenko speak with Piscoon on TV and say anything. So I want to pay attention to literally inhumane behavior. There's little Tymoshenko, it's her family. They explained that. Timoshenko, this is Julia Timoshenko's father-in-law, he's got a stroke, he's paralyzed the whole left side, he's had peritoneal surgery. He's been unconscious for literally a week, but he's been handcuffed to a bed, and the militia company has been put in place because you see a unconscious person as very dangerous. This is a violation of human rights. And as for Julia Timoshenko, to understand that I'm going to focus on what was published, a year ago, after working in the task force, I wrote an article where all the items were taken care of. And he called it, "Why does the authorities fear and hate Julia Timoshenko?" And now for a new application, again. They stole a lot. So I want to say, in an article published in the Voice of Ukraine called National Interests. The gas market and Julia Timoshenko, where the market was analyzed, I'm showing that the only company in Ukraine, the "Only Energy Systems" of Julia Timoshenko, worked without debts with Russia, all the other companies with debts, meant stealing, and she didn't steal. And if it interferes with them, it should be ordered. She's even being accused, well, she's been interviewed on the Internet for a while and showed me that I didn't sign the application, because there's no evidence, and Piscoon found new ones. What are the new ones? She's being blamed for her government activity for not turning off the light, for not having any problems, for taking away 10 billion. In the criminal oligarchs, put in the budget. That's what they blame her for! That is why I want people to hear and know and support those who fight for the people who fight against power, for this authority has no prospect! The Future of Opposition! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u173	Leonid Vernigora, next Lukyanenko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u174	Dear MPs, radio listeners, as soon as Mrs. Oksana Bilozore has spoken of the unborn, I will speak for the newborn babies, for whoever has ever heard a crying cry and sleeps an unsatisfying child, who has seen the eyes of the mother who is fed by nothing, will understand my message today at the call of the soul and heart. I'm not going to be in these three minutes because I won't be able to tell you by name who's guilty of having so little of being born and so much dying, you know that this is a regime and power, but I want to inform you that today the only Horolian milk canned formula on the verge of a stop and the faults of power. I repeat, the only one for the small Ukrainians, up to three months from birth and from three to one year. Today, this combination can only work on clean milk, and 240 bucks for each ton of milk. So the Cabinet of Ministers today owed over a million dollars, so the combination can stop. Moreover, the only one produced in the United States, the dryer there, needs repair, and the cost of this repair costs nine million dollars. Four decrees were adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers every year in a row, and he doesn't spend a penny on it, even though the President and our head of administration were there. His, not ours. So I went to the Budget Committee, personally Peter Alexiyovich Dustyenko as the father of three children. And I think his position in this is going to be on our side to predict in the 2004 budget a five-million-dollar milk subsidy, and also to ban imports into Ukraine of produce identical to that of a horal one, because it comes from beyond the ten-year-old border, which is produced at 120 degrees or more, and there's nothing nutritious and useful for children. Ours is made on site, up to 80 degrees and the only product certified. So I'm asking you to predict this 9 million in the budget, too, so that the Horol dairy plant doesn't stop. All of this can be done only if we change our authority and our regime. I agree with the previous statements, I agree with what Alexander Alexander Aleksandrovich Moroz said today, that only when we change our electoral system can we adopt a proportional law. And if we cannot do so, why should our people have such a parliament, a people who will die, and serve no one? It's my job to dissolve such a Parliament and, on a proportional basis, to get real advocates and servants here. And then our dairy plant won't stop, and then the children won't cry sorryly, and the mother's suffering eyes won't look at this dishonor. All those who deserve it, please support. And my speech is considered a parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u175	Lukjanenko Levko Grigorovich. Next Malinowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u176	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block, faction I would like to say that our President does not perform the responsibilities laid down in the Constitution at all. It does not protect the sovereignty of Ukraine, so according to the constitutional rights of citizens, our citizens are now trying to take over part of the protection of Ukraine. So yesterday, MPs, 10, headed by the head of the Ukrainian Republican Party, Sobor, Anatolia Matvienko, and the deputy head of the Board of Elders of the Ukrainian Republican Party, Academic Sitnik, went to Crimea to help our border guards protect Ukrainian territory from interference by Russia. We have a sudden, insolent intervention of Russia, which is actually the beginning of some aggressive action. The history of relations, as it were, Ukraine and Russia now emerges in a new and growing relationship between Ukraine and Russia, in Russia's new insolent step towards Ukraine. The problem of connecting Crimea to the North Caucasus was long ago, among other things, and in the Soviet Union and 1985, somewhere in those years, the task was to study three problems. First. Can't you build a reef between the Crimea and the Taman Peninsula? The other one. Construction of bridges. And the third. Construction of a tunnel. The task was given to scientists in all three directions. Scientists also looked in the first direction, that is, the construction of a dam between the Crimea and the Taman Peninsula, and this was the conclusion. If this dam is built, the sea of Azova will gradually die away because the water of Don is not sufficient to sustain the water in its normal state. As a result, the water will gradually greenen, and everything will die away. From the second dock, the cover of the dam of the Azov Sea from the Black Sea leads to the fact that a layer of living water in the Black Sea, which is now 12 meters [12 m], will shrink and then nothing can live in that shrinking layer. A sulfide below that is dangerous. So we can actually do the same thing to bring about a global catastrophe. If this layer becomes completely thin, then either the sulfide can explode, and of course everything in the Black Sea will die. This may have been repeated about 60 million years ago when the Black Sea exploded in general. Thus, the problem of this dam, which Russia has begun to build, can cause a global catastrophe, and this is not only for Ukraine but for all the countries of the Black Sea. As a result, I would like to address the government. First. Concentrate sufficient armed forces to defend Ukrainian state territory. The other one. Contact the United Nations Security Council. Third. Inform the Black Sea States about the threat of an environmental disaster. Next. In view of the apparent aggression of the Russian Federation regarding Ukraine, the government of Ukraine has warned the government of the Russian Federation about the issue of ending Ukraine's relations with the countries of the SND. The other one. On the timely termination of the lease agreement by the Russian Federation of the Sevastopol Naval Base. And the third. A review of Ukraine's position on participation in the creation of the Single Economic Space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u177	Alexi Petrovich Malinowski, next to Yeshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u178	Alexei Malinowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Grizzly. Dear colleagues, radio listeners. I've been calling on this rostrum today to ask the voters of Cherkaszczina a few questions to the President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchmi. First question. Why today, in Ukraine, there is a rising price for food products, all of which are now being told on television about GDP growth. Why did the price of bread rise by 30 percent in Cherchish, a farming land? Why are there always famous farms in Cherkashchen, where we have always had cattle at a higher level, with a 40 percent reduction in cattle. Why is medicine neglected in Cherchishka today? What they're talking about all the time and I'm like a deputy and they're talking at all levels, but the fact remains a fact. Why does a doctor today actually become a hostage and become a legitimate advocate and take bribes at the expense of the sick? Why do 20 percent of boys in third grade smoke cigarettes in Cherkaszczina today? Why were 70 percent of children in the eighth grade experimented with drugs today? Why the law enforcement agencies today do not have and do not want me to ask the President for an assignment today. to their electorate who worked in the sugar industry. 26 sugar factories in Cherchishka, today it's seven. As such, I'm reading a letter to the President because otherwise you won't get to him. A great deal of trouble came upon the head of our Yarosov sugar company. The factory was occupied by the captors, led to its working position to the handle, and by establishing an incurable diagnosis of the plant, they began cutting, shredding, and breaking everything in motion, and moving and immovable property. Save our factory, save our children. Signatures: Cross, Didik, Tower, village of Ternopilsk A similar letter is from the Townyard, a sugar-refined factory and so on and so forth. I draw a conclusion for myself and turn to the electorate. There's a systematic destruction of the Ukrainian people, a systematic destruction of the economy. The state is in an economic, political and social crisis. The only way out of this crisis is to change the political system of power. Alexander Moroz spoke today from this rostrum, I confirm once again, our faction, the Socialist Party of Ukraine is behind a decisive change in the political system. The path to getting out of the crisis is a change in electoral legislation, elections on a proportional basis from top to bottom, starting with the Supreme Council, and ending as a minimum with a district council. We're gonna stand up for this. If the Supreme Council is unable to do so, our faction is ready to initiate, I emphasize, the initiation of the dissolution of the Supreme Council. We are responsible for the power of the state, as is the President. So Leonid Danilovich, think carefully about what I was talking about today, and listen to your voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u179	Vladimir Leschchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u180	Vladimir Lešchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Chernigovščina. Dear Gennady Andreevich, distinguished people's deputies, distinguished voters! On 14 October this year, the newspaper “Today” made a small note of “The Privatization of the Common Govsky Konur” with a mockery, saying that in its time the Soviet official, as if visiting a Parisian brothel, had arranged for the Parisian woman to come to the Soviet Union, where he had promised to set her up for a hearse factory and a dormitory. It's like she's refusing, motivated by the fact that the brothel is better than the dormitory. Further, the newspaper did not develop this topic and discuss the willingness of which officials and the countries from which the brothels of Paris, Milan, Monaco, Ankara and other cities of Europe, the Middle East and the Far East were being filled today. The paper was also silent about the reasons why our Ukrainian girls were forced to trade abroad for their dignity and honour. It is not because bourgeois officials are unable to set up factories and factories, to provide young people with jobs, to create normal housing conditions. Yes, we almost all went through dormitories, colleges, workers, and we were grateful that the Soviet State had provided us with low-cost temporary housing. Today, in Ukraine, a million and a half families live in a dormitory, with no hope of ever improving their housing conditions. And those who build fancy mansions for themselves do not even bother to increase their dirty capital. With the silent consent of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ukrainian Housing Fund, they buy dormitories with no price, throw families out on the streets, adapt them to shops, restaurants, hotels, make money, and the authorities, the bourgeois press, remain silent. In Donetsk, for example, a dormitory of the Research Institute of Steel was sold to a private company called Dah together with tenants. Motivation of sales is an unprofitable dormitory. For more than two years, there has been a lawsuit against residents of the UAO hostel “Lugansk batteries” for their housing rights, as housing with people has been unlawfully committed for debts to the private company Felix of Krasnodon, and then illegally resold to a private person whose preference is to turn off light, gas and water from the dormitory. On his balcony there are posters that say, "Save us, old men and children. Protect our rights." But the authorities don't see it. What does she care about people?Oh, my God! There are 81 families, 97 minors, veterans of labour, disabled persons, single mothers in the Bortnichi family residence under Kiev. Once an economically powerful household farm had also become the PSC and had been bankrupt, sold and destroyed, and the dormitory had also been included, ready for sale. So the question is, what's the price? Where do people live? There are many such examples in Chernigovska, Volinska, Zakarpatski and other areas. I therefore request that I consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to the Government, to the Statehood Fund, to the Attorney-General's Office on all these matters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u181	Eugene Gorenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u182	Eugene Hoornik, "Our Ukraine" faction, Volin election district number 89. Honorable MPs, honourable voters, this week marked the date of October 14. Not everyone knows about this date, and it has gone unnoticed. And our President defined this date as the festival of Ukrainian Cossacks. For many years this date has been celebrated as a celebration of the formation of the Ukrainian rebel army. On a national level, I mean here in Kiev, not Ukrainian Cossacking, not the Ukrainian rebel army was in no way marked. What's more, tonight on our television, we were showing a film about the UPA, where I learned some very interesting things for myself. I lived my whole life in Galicina, and it turns out that during the war Galicina was a separate district where the German occupying power almost made a paradise. I could hear what a paradise it was from those older relatives who had somehow remained in Galician, and the Stalin regime had not been exported to Siberia. How they got to Delhi, exchanging things for food so they wouldn't starve to death in such a happy 41st year under such a happy occupation. Similar statements cast a shadow on my countrymen, on those students at the Calusi commercial school, who were shot by German invaders in November 1943 and whose memorial board is in Calusia, cast a shadow on those students who were shot in the city of Ivano-Frankivsk in October 1943 as well. I dare say that during this time of happiness. There was no subterfuge of occupation, except for the subterfuge of nationalism, in Galicina. And now some scientists want to turn them from the textbooks of the supposed occupation of German power into fighters only against Poland. And why is this being done? Because they want to make nationalism just history, because the modern authorities look very disgraceful compared to the Ukrainian rebel army that fought against all the invaders in those conditions. Modern power is a minority that gives up both the Kerchen Strait and the Dniestrowski GES, and the Odessa-Broda oil pipeline, and our Italian citizens in the United States, and it gives out its Ukrainian people in Ukraine. So, without changing this power personally and without changing the system of power, we can't hope for the recognition of the Ukrainian rebel army as a belligerent party or the recognition of those heroes. We recently admitted an Afghan, a Ukrainian, to death in Afghanistan, a Ukrainian hero. I also voted in favour of recognizing him as a hero of Ukraine. But until now, the heroes of Ukraine do not recognize the people who made Kuchma president, but we are the deputies of the Supreme Council. I understand that society may not be ready for what I say. But I urge the President of Ukraine and us to recognize the fact that Bandera, Petlur, Mihnowski and others were indeed heroes of Ukraine. And admit them legislatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u183	Mikhail Sithina. And we'll finish. You're so loud.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u184	Thank you. The Mihailo network. 74th constituency, Carpathians, faction of Ukraine's Agrarian Party. Honorable Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs, respected people of Ukraine. I want to speak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the situation in the pharmaceutical sector of Ukraine. Honourable Victor Fedorovich, in March of this year, the National Deputies have warned you about the possible negative impact on the development of the pharmaceutical sector, the unbalanced implementation by the Cabinet of Ministers of the President's Order on measures to improve the provision of medical care and medical supplies, and the efficiency of government administration in this area since February 7, 2003, at number 91, in the establishment of the State Service for Medical and Medical Devices. Sadly, the worst expectations have come true. Despite the demands of the National Deputies on the need to discuss the principles of reforming the public administration of the industry through the participation of professionals, scientists, and professional public organizations, there has been a ludicrous transformation of one government body of the State Department into another government government government government of the state service. From June 2, this year, at number 789, of July 24, at number 1146, and from October 2, this year, at number 1543, to the regulations on the State Service for Medical Devices and Medical Devices, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine actually copied the State Department’s position on quality control, safety and manufacture of medical supplies and medical supplies, which had been in operation since June 5, 2002, at number 917. What has been done by the State Service for 10 months? The paralysed state administration of the industry, the absolute lack of understanding and strategic vision of the prospects for the development of the pharmaceutical sector, further increases in prices for medical devices, the failure of state regulation of prices for medical devices. For an indefinite period of time, the solution to the problem of the return of loans received under State guarantees has been delayed. There is no detailed and understandable national health - care policy. During the years of independence, the pharmaceutical industry has completely switched to market principles. During the creation of the public service, a number of articles of Ukrainian laws on medical devices were violated in part of the distribution of the functions of state structures in ensuring the quality and effectiveness of medical devices, legislative acts regulating entrepreneurial activities in Ukraine, which confer the authority of one authority on the granting of both permission and further current supervision. Above all, there are no rules for effective government regulation of the pharmaceutical sector to ensure that Ukrainian citizens are provided with high quality medical supplies. Dear Victor Fedorovich, we ask you to correct the alleged violations of legislation and calculations in the creation of the public service. At the same time, I appeal to the Attorney General's Office to give a legal assessment of the situation, namely: violations of laws, regulations and presidential decrees. And please consider this as a parliamentary request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Attorney General of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-17-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, time for the Razna is running out. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. But I want to remind you that next week we have October 22nd hearing on Ukrainian-Russian relations. And on the 23rd, we're looking at budgetary issues, and the other time we're working on committees. Good-bye.
