ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:40]] Registered -415 There are 415 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Anisimov Viacheslav Alexanderovich. Let's welcome him. Let's wish him well. [[Applause]] Please listen to the announcement. Pursuant to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2. I am informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the entry of Ukrainian national deputies Musiyaki Viktor Lavrentiyovich and Sovkovic Vladimir Leonidovic as part of the European Choice Group. Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 Tuesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. Members of factions and groups, please submit your statement. In the meantime, when there is no objection, I announce the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies: Veretennikov and others -- only 43 National Deputies, to the President of Ukraine on the unlawful actions of the Dnipropetrovsky District Prosecutor's Office regarding the company's shareholding company, the Dodniprovsky and other enterprises. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:29]] For 168 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote to send the request to the President of Ukraine. I remind you, 226 votes are required. [[10:04:51]] For 229 Decision taken. Catherine Samoylik to the President of Ukraine on the impeccability of transferring the Dnipro Hotel to the State Office of the President of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:22]] For 219 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote to send the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:05:46]] For 257 Decision taken. Demjochin's National Deputy to the President of Ukraine on the announcement of the Herson region as a zone of ecological emergency by the extinction of most areas of winter crops. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:21]] For 239. Yeah, for 239. Decision taken. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:43]] For 257 Decision taken. National MP Boris Olijnik to the President of Ukraine in connection with the proposals for the sale of museum collections in reserves that conflict with current legislation. This is a request to the President of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:14]] For 241 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:07:35]] For 253 Decision taken. National Deputy Pavel Zebrovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds to the world's district cancer dispenser for the treatment of patients. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:03]] For 234 Decision taken. Paul Zhebrovsky's head of VAT's "Scartelekom" Hajduk for the restoration of the telephone connection of the micro-district in the city of Berdichev of the Žitomir region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:31]] For 207 Decision taken. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inappropriate response to the petition of citizens by the law enforcement authorities of the Skadovian region of the Hersonian region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:03]] For-154 Decision taken. Jury Solomatin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of Ukrainian citizens' constitutional rights, who are subscribers of Russian periodicals for the maintenance of information. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:35]] For-137 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the restructuring of the State Science and Production Enterprise Ecocentre by compiling scientific research programmes in the area of alienation in the Chernobyl AES and paying for the work of scientists. [[Bronnikov, Gurenko, Sitnik, Solomatine, Osika]] I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:11]] For-173 Decision taken. Dmitry Rudzkowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding the privatisation of the closed stock company "Expert-Osava". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:39]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Andrija School to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on providing information on financing the construction of clean-up buildings in Sambir Lviv district at the expense of the state budget. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:06]] For-136 Decision taken. Jury Solomatin to Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the unsatisfying activities of the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster of paying off the salaries of employees of the state-owned eco-centre enterprise. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:42]] For 128 Decision taken. Vasil Onopenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the improper financing of Ukraine's judicial system. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:07]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Viktor Borszewski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the destruction of the library case and the insufficient payment of the work of library workers. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:36]] For-153 Decision taken. Gregory Bondarenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the review of the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers concerning payment of payment-related postal services, the delivery of pensions and cash payments. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:05]] For 169 Decision taken. Vasil Onopenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the failure to fulfil the agreement on timely recognition of benefits and guarantees for participants and disabled persons in the Great War, participants in hostilities in the territory of other states, families of dead military personnel. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:39]] For 148 Decision taken. Valentina Savitsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the gasification of Baranówski, Emilczynski, Olewski, Novgograd-Volinski region of the Žitomir region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:08]] For-97 Z-97. Decision taken. Sergey of the Chief to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine on providing information on the involvement of the State executive authorities in countering the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:38]] For-93 Z-93. Decision taken. Alexander Moroz to the Minister of Agrarian Politics of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, for violations of legislation in the reform of the tribe's name Bogdan Hmelnicka Preyaslav-Hmelnicka district of Kyiv region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:10]] For-140. For a hundred and Decision taken. Igor Reznik to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine in connection with the failure to comply with the ruling of the Ilchiv district court in Odessa. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:38]] For-52 For-52. The decision is not taken. Hennady Rudenka to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine in connection with the violation of the conditions for the use of technology and environmental requirements in the extraction of sand by the Eupatoria Seaport. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:09]] For-72 Z-72. The decision is not taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the violation in the Malovishkow district of Kirovograd area of guarantees to officials of local self - government. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:39]] For 132 Decision taken. Anatoly of the Republic of Lithuania to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, a repeat request concerning the violation of Ukrainian legislation by non-resident companies of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:05]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Alexander Tretlyakov to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine, the Director General of Ukrazliznice, on the threat of securing Ukraine’s needs for light petroleum products because of the failure to comply with commitments made by Ukrazliznica to transport plans. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:39]] For-92 Decision taken. Viktor Borszewski to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for gross violations by local courts of citizens' rights to meet peacefully without weapons under article 39 of the Constitution of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:11]] For the 110. Decision taken. Alexander Moroz to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Agrarian Policy of Ukraine, for violations of legislation in the reform of the former Kivova Preyaslav-Hmelnicki district of Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:43]] For 124 Decision taken. Andrea Schlell to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of the position of directors of the Brodov District State Administration of the Lviv Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:11]] For the 110. Decision taken. Anatolia Átovajka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on preventing and combating the laundering of proceeds obtained illegally. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:37]] For 118 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the transfer of the correctional colony of silgovodium and property. The former Sverdlov farm of Kirovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:06]] For the 120th. Decision taken. Alexander Moroz to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of the property of the Kyiv Institute of Bread Products. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:32]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Gregory Omelchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the conduct of a pretrial investigation into the abuse of duty by the former Attorney General of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:08]] For-167 Decision taken. Valentina Seminouk to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the violation by President Viktor Medvedchuk of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act in relation to the unlawful refusal of information provided by the Ukrainian law on the status of the Ukrainian National Deputy and the legal assessment of the actions of members of the Attorney General's Office relating to the independent legal response to the violation by Victor Medvedchuk of the Anti-Corruption Act. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:56]] For 177 For - 177, the decision is made. Sergey Teryochina to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service in the absence of a response to a petition regarding the violation of the rights of the Chinese people in the privatization of land and the corruption of officials. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:29]] For 116 Decision taken. Igor Sharov to the head of the National Television Council, radio talk about the enforcement of Ukrainian legislation by the media in the field of copyright and adjacent rights. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:59]] For-182 Decision taken. Alexander Zadrozhny to the city’s Kiev head, head of the city’s public administration, on the problems of providing a disabled family with a land plot to build a residential home. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:30.]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Julius Timoshenko and Michael Pavlowski to the Donetsk city head to settle the issue of the functioning of the Sokol market in Donetsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:58]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy on Consumer Protection, the non-involvement of committee officials and his Ode representation on the side of anti-constitutional, anti-democracy forces. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:33]] For-94 Decision taken. Julius Timoshenko and Michael Pavlowski to the prosecutor of Donetsk’s decision to challenge the decision of the Donetsk City Council regarding the order of mass action in Donetsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:02]] For-161 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the acceptance of the mass robbery of the people of Ukraine through illegal billing and collection of taxes on the added value of rent, repair, construction work, the use of houses or apartments as a place of permanent residence of citizens. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:37]] For-160. Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine for the cessation of oil smuggling at the Odessa Seaport and for the illegal reimbursement of the value added tax that damages the State for tens of millions of dollars. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:17]] For 112 Decision taken. Yes, Your Honor, let's move on to statements, petitions, queries and messages from factions. The word is given by Suprun Ludmila Pavlovni of the NDP faction. Get ready for Samilaka Catherine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address you on behalf of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u3	May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u4	Members of the Ukrainian Peace Fund for the situation with Iraq "Dear compatriots, we address the heart and soul of every citizen of our independent state, who has no regard for the fate of our civilization and of the world community as a whole, regardless of religion or belief. It was a very difficult and long way to recognize the primacy of human values over all others. But unfortunately, today mankind is experiencing a turning point in its history, when the terrible word “war, ” which has been draining, debilitating, destroying nations for thousands of years, can once again appear on the horizon. During the Cold War, mankind was apprehensive of the threats posed by the thermonuclear war. And it could be expected that mankind has realized the global disastrous consequences of a war - torn clash of nations. A new world view is emerging, based on the great idea of unity among all nations, regardless of national, social, class distinctions. That is why we are obliged to take successful steps to dismantle militaristic structures, to blur the image of the enemy, to create a system of interaction between countries in the political, cultural, economic sphere. The Ukrainian people know what pain and tragedy are, for the territory of our country has been plagued by two world wars, famines, Chernobyl catastrophes, and the Ukrainian state has taken years of history into account, and it will not turn its back on the path. Not only does Ukraine call for disarmament, demilitarization and non-conflict conflict resolution but it itself has been a powerful example of the application of the principles of peaceful coexistence. Ukraine, which had its third nuclear potential in the world, refused to do so and became a nuclear - free state. We had the largest Armed Forces in Europe, but they made a massive reduction, and the KPC's conversion, which was part of the world's ten most powerful complexes, reduced their military spending. Human life is the way to happiness, love, prosperity. It's not just about the welfare and security of people, it's about the future of civilization and of the planet as a whole. We should not lose the wisdom of the ages that teaches us that further war will never be better than bad peace. We believe that the United States is able to solve such problems, not by military means, but by peaceful means. So today, not just to the governments and peoples of the United States and Iraq, but to all nations, nations, organizations, religions, people of all ages and sex, each of whom has to make an appropriate contribution in his own city to prevent war. From the Ukrainian Peace Fund, Boris Paton, president of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, Ludmila Suprun, Ukrainian National MP, head of the Ukrainian Peace Fund, Yuri Bedzik, head of the Ukrainian Peace Fund, John Kuras, Valerius Smolius. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u5	Thank you. The Samoan National MP is invited to speak from the Communist faction. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, the International Women’s Solidarity Day for Social, Political, Economic Equality is approaching. Last Saturday, the Supreme Women's Council of the All-Ukrainian Union of Women Workers for the Future of the Children of Ukraine held the second time the All-Ukrainian Meeting of Multi-Child Mothers, attended by 500 delegates from various parts of Ukraine. Among the delegates were women who gave birth to 14, 13, 12, 11, 10 children. Even more respect is drawn to mothers who do not go away from abandoned children who are homeless and who are brought up with orphanages, children’s homes, and in single families are raised by 22, 19, 15, 14 children. I don't know if there's a measure to evaluate the daily motherhood of these women. But I have to go out to this rostrum to express both surprise and protest the position of state authority. Taking responsibility for Ukraine's future, these mothers remained face-to-face with problems. In the presentations, women said that only single families of many children were under the patronage of the president’s state and wife. Every day, everyone else fights hard for the survival of their children. Surprisingly, they fight against these families, against mothers and children, the state’s representatives on the ground. With pain, women from Crimea and Ternopolis, from Kharkiv and Lviv, spoke of officials cutting off light, gas. Mothers and their children are forced to wait in turn to prevent attacks by all kinds of skyscrapers, utilities, and others. In Lviv, a longtime mother was forced to bring in dogs in order to escape the authorities more easily. Because it is possible to keep a large family at a low cost. It was painful to say that children had nothing to wear to feed them. Many families do not know what a washing machine is, such as a TV, is unable to buy a toy, a textbook. I am most impressed by the fact that such families are not so many in every region. But the slogan of authority is why they gave birth to children, why they took foreign children. And this is in that demographic situation that leads to a sharp reduction of the Ukrainian people. The state judges many families for utilities and others. It is a disgrace to the authorities who fight with their mothers and children. It's worth nothing if it can't protect the future. In this connection, the participants of the All - Ukrainian Union of Multi - Child Mothers supported the Declaration of Unity of the All - Ukrainian Extraordinary Assembly of Deputies of the Councils of All Levels of the United Opposition. Because the main goal is to create decent living conditions for all the people of Ukraine in their own sovereign state. That is why we stand for the timely removal of the existing regime and President Kuchma for political reform, which will make a person in all its manifestations a major concern of the state and of all its links. Mother, a gathering of many young mothers claimed that on March 9, together with the united opposition, they would go out on the streets of cities and villages to protest against the existing regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u7	Thank you. People's deputy Shurma is invited from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine to prepare for Turkey. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, with the order of the faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine, I would like to make an official statement on the events that have taken place in the Zakartat region in recent days. [[united]] On February 25, at the end of the day, in Mukachevo, five unknown persons entered the service office of the chief physician of Mukatsov’s central district hospital, a district deputy of Vasil Vassuta’s council, who attacked him, resulting in injuries to the victim. This shameful and inadvertent act has rightly received a broad public resonance. However, without even awaiting the previous conclusions of the law enforcement agencies, the criminal attack on the district deputy was immediately transferred to the political plane. And a group of MPs from the parliamentary faction of "Our Ukraine" appeared in the press with strong political statements, in which, without justification, irresponsibly and irresponsibly, they gave an indication of their involvement in the so-called incident of authorities and SDPU(o). Shortly thereafter, a group of deputies were moved by their actions to accept such irresponsible and provocative calls from the City and District Councils. The faction of Ukraine's Social-Democratic Party in the Supreme Council expresses its deep resentment and sees such actions as a deliberate political provocation, which has purposely, roughly and cynically used to suppress social tension and destabilize the political situation in a particular region and state in general. [[united]] The United Social Democrats strongly condemn the beating of the Zacarpathian District Council member and will pursue all possible political and parliamentary methods of rapid and objective disclosure by law enforcement agencies. The perpetrators of this criminal attack must be found and punished. Once again, we emphasize that any crime committed in our country, whether it's Carpathians, Clothing, Lions, or the Matter against man, should first be given a legal assessment. Attempts to provoke a political scandal, to make cheap political dividends that are incompatible with the norms and rules of public democracy directly contradict the ethics of civilized political life. We political parties have been elected to the higher legislative body of Ukraine to work together and with the same interest to do everything to cleanse our nation of banditry and crime. By deceiving political provocations and primitives, this problem will not be solved because it is a road of disunity and instability, a road to nowhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u9	Alexander Turchinov is invited by the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Get Michael ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u10	Dear National Deputies! Respectable compatriots! On Sunday, March 2, in Kiev, an all - Ukrainian extraordinary assembly of deputies was held of councils of all levels from the united opposition. For the first time in the history of an independent Ukrainian State, national electorates from all regions from the countryside to the Supreme Council gathered. Ideologically different political forces have united themselves for a righteous fight. For the first time in the last decade, the world’s political banditry, political terror, and genocide have gained such power and scope. The political forces are initiating an all-U.S. civil protest "Resurrender Ukraine!" Yulia Tymoshenko’s bloc, the Communist Party and the Socialist Party of Ukraine to adopt a common declaration of unity and commit themselves to proving Ukraine’s cleanliness from the powerful filth and evil to the only possible logical conclusion, the early withdrawal from the power of today’s President and his corrupt environment, and the political reform of the system of power. Respectable compatriots! The Ukrainian authorities today are not as stable and terrified as ever, despite the demonstration of monolithism. The authorities fear the people. The authorities fear responsibility for their terrible crimes. She left the nation, betrayed the nation, failed to control the situation in the country, and could not respond adequately to it. In order to continue in power, they are ready for all things today. They are still willing to betray, kill, steal, destroy. Today, they are like rats driven to a dead end and are capable of just scratching and bringing disaster. In this situation, leaving such people in power for at least one day is a crime. It is passive to see a group of extremely bankrupt politicians lead the country into a catastrophe that is unacceptable and immoral. Honest people, the principled successive patriots, are obliged by all available legal means to help the legitimate historical process, the complete and unconditional cleansing of the state and society from the possible criminalized evil. That's why we, the united opposition forces, have announced the continuation of the "State, Ukraine" campaign. and today I have the honour to invite all honest and uncaring people to participate in the opposition that will take place on 9 March 2003. United opposition centers are established and functioning. In Kiev, the stockholders’ congregation will begin at 11 a.m. on March 9th. At 12 p.m., a common column will be built on the European Square, which will pass to the Chevchenk Memorial, where a rally will begin at 13 p.m. On occasion, I want to turn to the real patriots who are now behind bars, where they have been thrown by their bloody regime for not getting on their knees and being afraid of his threat. We're fighting together and it's about time you're freed by heroes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u11	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u12	I'm done. How clearly you deserve it. Your executioners will soon be held accountable for their crimes. Ukraine wakes up! Ukraine rises! Our mutual victory is as lasting as spring. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u13	Mikhailo Alexiyovich from the Democratic Initiative Group is invited to the presentation. Prepare Alexander the Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u14	Dear National Deputies! As you know, by decision of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of 19 February, I presented to the National Deputies material on the abuse of the position of individual tax officials and prosecutors, including Attorney-General Piscoon, while at the same time offering him a statement of mistrust. According to the materials, the employees of the Tax Service for the promotion of individual employees of the Public Prosecutor's Office were illegally removed at a cost of millions of United States dollars, which, with a gross violation of legislation without judicial decisions, were confiscated and implemented through a company called the Rekon, organized by the Trade Union of the State Tax Administration. Individual illegal acts were directly facilitated by the Attorney General of Piscoon, who allowed other abuses. In the course of illegal acts, judicial decisions were grossly violated, according to which the removal and confiscation of goods were illegal. Instead of taking effective measures to prevent violations of legislation and abuses following consideration of the matter at the February 21st Supreme Council session, a former director of Prometheus Galic was arrested at the firm whose goods had been illegally removed and who appealed to the Committee of the Supreme Council for assistance. In addition, on February 5, U.S.A. investigator Pashukov filed a motion to remove lawyer Boyk from Galic's defense. The committee also received additional material on a number of abuses related to the illegal removal and confiscation of goods from other firms that would be provided to the interim commission of inquiry when it was created. Taking steps to prevent the detection of illegal acts and to avoid their responsibility, the Attorney General of Piscon used the misinformation of national MPs, the public through individual newspapers and television to try to translate the matter into a level of personal relations. It included a letter in the form of a letter, which, according to the requirements of the law in force, was addressed to the head of the U.S.S.A. in order not to allow uncontrolled action on the part of the employees of this department in carrying out the operational work on the Gongadze case, which was conducted by the Attorney General's Office. In doing so, my decision to organize an investigation into the crime against my deputy Bagantz, who, having experienced the work from the district investigator to the procurator of the Attorney General's Office, worked as prosecutor of the Lvivsky and Dnipropetrov oblasts and recommended himself solely positively. In addition, the Baganese was in good relations with Gongadze, hoping for his special interest in uncovering the crime, and his purely official relationship with the management of the IMF and the SB ruled out any decision on their behalf. Regrettably, the Attorney General’s dirty actions have always been mocked by the national MP, Omelchenko. On the basis of the information and objectivity of the materials and information provided, when deciding on the issue of compliance by law enforcement officials with the requirements of the Constitution and the Law on the Status of the People's Deputies, please provide for the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry to verify the abuse by officials of the State Tax Service and the Administration, the Tax Administration and the Prosecutor's Office. The contents of the 6 volumes will be passed on to the commissions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u15	Thank you. Alexander Frost of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is invited to the floor. Get ready for Mhitarian.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u16	Deputies! Dear voters! The controlled media silence the fact and content of the work of the All - Ukrainian Extraordinary Assembly of Deputies of all levels of opposition. The documents adopted by this assembly include a reference to the people of Ukraine. In particular, it discusses the critical situation in the country and approves a declaration of unity on the consolidation of the centres of our parties, opposition parties, and deputies of all levels. An urgent, first - priority meeting will see the removal of the regime in charge of Kuchma, the organization of presidential elections in Ukraine, and political reform aimed at changing the system of power in the interests of the people. The All - Ukrainian Extraordinary Assembly of Deputies of All Levels of the United Opposition declared its readiness to bring its struggle to a complete and unconditional victory. To this end, it calls on Ukrainian citizens, particularly at all levels, to support the activities of the Joint Opposition Staff, which will form the basis of national control over the actions of the authorities, together with the headquarters, to immediately create a real system of opposition in each case of political sovereignty, in each case a violation of the rights of individual citizens, social groups and groups, all legal methods, civil disobedience actions to stop the destruction of enterprises, agriculture, and the abuse of people by reprisal-punished structures. The All - Ukrainian Extraordinary Union of Opposition Deputies has outlined the direction of development of Ukraine and the setting up of society for the future. And the convention invites all Ukrainian citizens to go out on the streets and square of cities on 9 March this year to support the all-Ukrainian protest "Resurrence, Ukraine!', take another decisive step towards a common victory. The need for such action is explained by many circumstances, including the fact that I am addressing you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, with a request on Friday to listen to the government's information on the minimum wage, the situation in this respect. It's a strange situation. The Supreme Council has adopted a new budget, budgeted funds to raise minimum wages, such as the budget. Nothing is done in practice. I would like to hear: What is the reason for this situation? If the government is to blame, we need to draw the right conclusions. If the blame on this matter is on Parliament, appropriate instructions should be given. The draft decree was introduced, registered, prepared by Stanislaw Nikolainko, especially by our faction. I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to take this need into account and to consider an essential issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u17	I invite you to speak from the faction of political parties of industrialists and entrepreneurs and the Hard Ukraine of Mhitaryan Nvera Mnazakanović. Please. Prepare Balozy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u18	The distinguished Chairman, distinguished colleagues, is due to ratify the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages on Thursday. This document will form the basis for the rebirth of the identity of national minorities in Ukraine. The Charter establishes that the term “regional languages or minority languages” is used for those languages that are traditionally used by a group of nationals of a State smaller than the rest of the population. The territory in which they are used is the geographical area where such a language serves as a means of communication for a sufficient number of persons. At the same time, the qualitative criterion on which the necessary number of so-called national minorities can be determined is sufficient to ensure that its language is protected does not indicate. In this regard, each country has its own situation. What do we have in Ukraine? According to the proposed ratification of the law, the provision applies in 13 languages from Russian to The Hague. Even so, according to the 2001 U.S. census, the number of Armenians in Ukraine is three times higher than the German or Hagueese, whose languages have been incorporated into the Ukrainian version of the Charter. The same situation with Tatars, Gypsies, Azerbaijanis and Georgians. The national issue is known to be very thin and often painful for national minorities. Should such a democratic and right thing as the ratification of the Charter begin with the violation of the rights of a wide range of Ukrainian citizens to the preservation and use of their mother tongue? According to the census, the smallest ethnic group of Gagaus, whose language is included in the list of charters, has 32,000 people. My proposal, therefore, is to establish a quantitative criterion for the selection of national minorities that are protected by the Charter to 30,000 persons and, accordingly, to expand the list into five additional languages. In this case, the list will be completed by Armenians, Armenians in Ukraine 99.9 thousand, Tatars 73.3,000, Roma 47.6,000, Azerbaijani 45,000, and Georgian 34.2 thousand. And that'll be fair. I am convinced that the law adopted by the Ukrainian Parliament on the ratification of the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages will not prejudice the Ukrainian language of the State and, at the same time, the law will ensure respect, understanding and understanding of the languages of national minorities. And yet another Russian language, which according to the U.S. Census considers 14.3 million Ukrainians to be related, is practically one third of the population, in my view, inappropriately leave on the list the Charter as the language of national minorities requiring protection. In my opinion, Russian should be removed from the list. At the same time, however, the issue of the submission of the status of the second official State language of Ukraine should be resolved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u19	Victor Baloga is invited to the "Our Ukraine" faction. Prepare Gregory Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! Not everyone in Ukraine is aware of the recent incident that took place on February 25 of this year at Zacarpatta. When the chief physician, the cheater’s deputy, Mukasevsky’s member, Mesquikkano Vassyu, was severely executed in his office. As a result of the savage attack, and five of his men were beaten in masks with heavy objects and rods to the point of unconsciousness, he found himself in a reanimation ward. In fact, it was a repetition of the settlement that was made a few days earlier over the head of the deputy faction of "Our Ukraine" in the Suman City Council by Volodymyr Vabrik. Which also miraculously remained alive. The inhabitants of Mukachevo and Mukasev region, like all the Carpathians, directly associate this disgraceful fact with the deployment of its district council to the post of head of the Mukatsev Reservarium as opposed to the candidate from the SDPU(o) Thank you, Victor Alexanderovich. To whom the Rajrad deputy for compromising himself, broke down one of the stronger economic areas, lost authority, and abused, found mistrust. And in June of last year, his president of Ukraine resigned from his post. But a thunderstorm in the clear sky was the fact that on February 4, this year, the girl was reinstated. Mr. Medvedchuk, the head of the Ukrainian President's Administration, along with the head of the Rizak District Administration, who heads the SDU Party in Zakarpat, will be said to have spat softly on the decision of the rajrad, on the public opinion of the electorate, on the situation in the region and have achieved a new appointment of secretary to the Paradise Head of the RDA region, one of the largest in the country. To continue to resolve its narrow party issues. In doing so, not only did they demonstrate all-powerful party power and permissiveness but they undermined the reputation of the President of Ukraine as the guarantor of the Constitution in the eyes of hundreds of thousands of my countrymen. As a result of events. As soon as possible, both the city’s deputies and the district councils were assembled. They strongly condemned the facts and asked for the address of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers. Consider the situation in Zacarpat, which hit the whole country, and intervene. In addition, the District Council returned to the question of mistrust to the newly appointed Father and by secret ballot confirmed its previous decision. However, it was discovered, both before and after the session, that the MPs were subjected to intense pressure. Threats are coming from Mr. Unclechenk and his supporters so that they will not, God forbid, vote against him, but immediately call back their voices. At the same time, it is a major concern that internal affairs officials are exerting pressure along with criminal elements. What are some of the statements made by Arga’s deputies, Kendesh, and others? I think that an event, like the abuse in Sumas, and many others that have occurred before, are not just hooligan cases, as the administrations and state television are trying to do in areas, it's a planned action by executive authorities, where under the authority of the SDPU, against local government authorities that do not support the SDPU (o) rate, against all those who are not with them. That is why the authorities must bear strict responsibility to the people. I'm sorry, one second. Because by its actions, it's breaking the law, demonstrating a force that can't be denied, trying to throw society into a state of uncontrollableness and uncontrolledness, destroying the growths of democracy. As a result of this situation, I demand, first of all, to investigate as soon as possible the assassination of Vladimir Lavrik and Vasil Vasyutta from the city of Mukachev, and to call for the strict responsibility of the organizers and performers of these dirty affairs. I think it's impossible to go any further in the position of Mukachovsky's head. Mr. Djadchenk, since this was the conclusion reached by members of the city and district council, representing some 200,000 people. The "Our Ukraine" faction insists that an evaluation of the facts be given during the Attorney General's speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u21	Please, Shufrich Replica. I'm asking you not to name your last name. Now we're going to finish then, we've got more speeches.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u22	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. The faction and party of the united Social Democrats were mentioned. I want to pay attention to the following. Yesterday and Friday, February 28th, statements by members of the district council declaring the decision of the district council invalid were filed before the city court in Mukachev, and they confirm that they did not vote in confidence with the head of the regime. In fact, the head of the Dhachenko Reich administration was removed from office after a similar vote after the March 2002 election, and during that time the situation in the area deteriorated considerably, and the leader, who ruled the area for 15 years, was returned. The depravity of this situation adds that it was Victor Djächenko who was a candidate for the People's Deputies in electoral district number 71, and that the court was dismissed for violations that were otherwise not counted. Let us not take the local divisions to the high court of the Supreme Council. And I'm pretty sure the law enforcement will take care of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u23	Turn off the microphone. Please, Mr. Gregory Ivanovich Bondarenko of the European Choice Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to a problem that you all know will explode. It is the Tax Code, more specifically, the delay in its consideration. In the meantime, taxes that work turn the problem into threats. Most of the talk is about an intolerable tax burden, but the danger is not just that. Law enforcement has gaps that allow or avoid taxation, where many, or "legally", minimize tax liabilities. And that's because we can't find any extra revenue to raise the minimum wage. Turning your weight, colleagues, to the next. In the first reading, the Tax Code was approved by the Supreme Council of the previous calling. This was done on July 13, 2000. More than a year later, note that after 15 months, the codex was adopted in a second reading. Taken in the fight, with the power. In no way did some forces want to cover over the dirty, or criminal, wealth. And we actually did that. It's all right now. Nothing's changed yet. For the third reading, the Supreme Council defined, as an exception to the Rules, a special procedure for consideration and the procedure to date. Over a year. Last year, under the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council, a special parliamentary government group was set up to finalize the code. We're done, all right. They've confirmed the work schedule. But that's an interesting detail. The order for the creation of the working group, issued on July 11, was approved in October of three months. They've already demonstrated their interest, their operationality, they're the forerunners. Not forerunners, we're with you. The bill's schedule was ruined. None of the chapters of the Codex have been completed today. Moreover, even the composition of the working group has not been updated according to government changes. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we need your intervention. The Committee on Finance and Banking does not seem to be without the participation of the Parliamentary Head. The review of the Tax Code revealed major problems. The solution takes time. And he's gone, I guess. There is no doubt that the Code will not be adopted in the first half of this year, which means that the 2004 State Budget will have to be re-formed on an old tax base. This cannot be allowed under any circumstances. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! All those who applied for the factions took advantage of their rights. As for the issues that have been raised, I think we need to have the Secretariat prepare appropriate queries and queries, including those that have been raised here regarding the treatment of local leaders. As far as the Tax Code is concerned, I think that next week we and the committee and the government will hold meetings to determine how we will continue to move forward in the preparation and adoption of this document. Out of procedure, National Deputy Assadchev, please. I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u26	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have such a small question to ask you about the Government Program. Maybe you'll give us some information, so the program is being commented on, it's being talked about in the media everywhere, but the Supreme Council doesn't have it, and the MPs don't get it. Maybe you'll just let us know where she is right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u27	The program is being developed in government, and the project has been distributed. I wonder why she didn't get to all the people. And only the leaders had factions? Well, then we're going to ask that the advanced version be distributed to all the national MPs. The government is expected to introduce this program after the President's annual letter to take all positions into account and to be consistent with these documents. That is the situation today. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u28	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a request for you. As you will recall, a few weeks ago, I raised questions about the possible falsification or falsification of Ukraine’s budget and, as a result, I offered to work it out. A working group was formed. It seems to me that the time has come for you to gather us and inform us at least the faction leaders. And we need to either take off this stain or we need to figure out who, for what reasons, faked the 2003 budget of Ukraine. So I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, determine, please, time, gather us faction leaders and inform us of the results of the work of the task force so that we know what to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u29	I think we're going to have this meeting, we're going to agree with you in the working order, that is, the faction leaders and the MPs are going to have an acceptable time for us to look at this issue definitively and set the right points, to make the right estimates. Dear colleagues, let us move on to Tuesday’s schedule of meetings. The draft Law on the State Hymn has been announced for consideration. This is the order of his consideration by the profile committee. We have 4 reports and we give them 5 minutes, 3 minutes, on question-answer, take the rest for discussion. Is there no objection? Please, People's Deputy Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u30	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The State Hymn has a very important meaning for the life of the rest of our society, it's a fateful, yes, the law, so I don't think it's necessary to rush here. As one of the reporters, I'd like to speak to you for 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, you know the offer is a 45-minute standing committee to consider this issue. There's an offer that we're going to consider for an hour to debate this issue. I am voting to take 60 minutes, or an hour, to consider the matter. Please make up your mind. [[11:04:57]] For-164 The decision is not taken. Let's go over this issue according to the rules. Please, I invite you to the podium of Vladimir Alexiyovich Leschenko as the author of one of the bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u32	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! It has been over 11 years since Ukraine declared its sovereignty and independence, that it is a democratic, social and legal state. Almost seven years ago, the new Constitution of Ukraine was adopted, but by this time, Ukraine, unfortunately, does not have its legitimate State Hymn, which would have been legally approved under the Constitution of Ukraine by at least two thirds of the votes of the constitutional composition. In general, the state symbols of any state must meet the following requirements: to unite the people, to instill in people a sense of optimism, pride for their state, to be permanent for a long period of history. As for the hymn, it must also be festive. Are these criteria met today by the valid illegal anthem of Ukraine, which Paul Chubinsky’s words were also fulfilled in this room? The answer is no! That's what so many thousands of our voters talk about at our meetings about, and that's what they write about in their letters. I also have many letters coming to me as the author of one of the projects. Here's one of them. In fact, all branches of government in Ukraine are addressed by Christians of various evangelical Orthodox Moscow and Kyiv patriarchs, Catholic churches of Ukraine. Among the most necessary tasks, in their view, a new anthem needs to be put together immediately, because "Not dead Ukraine" sounds like it's about to die and it's barely breathing. These words could have been the anthem of Taras Shevchenk’s day, but today the hymn must have been a call for the restoration of Ukraine, for the people to rise to great things, for the unity of the Ukrainian people and so forth. The voters send hundreds of suggestions on text and music. People in the east and west, in the south and north of Ukraine, see differently, and most people don't see today's anthem, and most people don't see today's anthem, not by ideological signs. This is seen by representatives of all branches of government, the intelligence of Ukraine. That is why the work has been done to create a new anthem of Ukraine that would meet the spirit and the requirements of time. Regrettably, the creators of the new Constitution of Ukraine may have rushed into error when they wrote in article 20 that the national anthem of the country is the national anthem for the music of Mikhail Verbicki. This complicates the process of adopting a new anthem and limits the choice that will certainly not contribute to the quality of this symbol. Mikhail Verbicki’s beautiful musical work, but he was born when Ukraine as a state did not take place. Hence, he does not reproduce the state of solemnity. Most likely this music is a call to join, to form a state. Perhaps it is right that an anthem is created and legalized after the creation of a state of its independence into an international arena. Accordingly, in 1945, when Ukraine was recognized as an official member of the United Nations and it was created and approved by the State Hymn of Ukraine. The music was written by an author group led by Anton Lebedinec, and the text consisted of famous poets Bajan and Tichin. By all indications of musical and poetic creativity, the hymn was fully in line with its purpose. No one can claim that this was, for example, a party anthem, nor can anyone guarantee that this anthem is related to some anti - democratic action by the Ukrainian Republic toward its people. This hymn has never stained itself in the eyes of the 52 million people of Ukraine, and with this anthem has grown several generations of our people, and with it Ukraine has overcome post-war destruction, and has come to the forefront of Europe and the world. For decades, it has been good for the Ukrainian economy and for the politicians in this room. But as I say, national wisdom changes everything, and music forever. As far as the text is concerned, I think it was quite good for the Ukrainian National MP, Michael Trusch, to write. In the absence of time, I can't get to know the electorate in particular right now, because the anthem hasn't been announced at all, and nothing has been said about him. But this anthem could unite the entire Ukrainian people to rebuild their independent floral state. As the author of the bill, I am likely to be accused of somewhat disrupted procedure for amending the Constitution. I assure you, I know this procedure well. And if the national MPs who read this draft anthem support my bill and it gets the necessary amount, I think this legal procedure will be implemented. Therefore, I propose not to accept the text of the anthem of the east, burning, but to conduct three drafts of the rating vote. And then what kind of hymn project gets the largest number of votes, and then goes on to conduct the procedure in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u33	Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the question. Three minutes to ask, please sign in. Light up on the board. National Deputy Masters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u34	May I have the floor to the national deputy of Solomon?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u35	Thank you very much. Yuri Solomatin. Please, Your Honor. You have 40 seconds left. Please read what you wanted from Hymna so that the voters would know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u36	I'm doing your request. The thing is, the people didn't hear about Ukraine. & Word: "Live, Ukraine, unbreakable and strong, One, and gather the updated people together, Between equal equals, between free is free Don't forget your great-great-grandparents.” Conjunction: “Glory to the fighters for freedom and freedom! Glory be to the Motherland forever! Live, Ukraine, for the joy of the people In the name of new perfections of daughters and sons!" Second verse: "In burdensome fairs there was hope, She's always been inspired by a new feat, You Instilled Faith in Your Child’s Heart In holy spirit and truth singing." Third verse: "Strength tighter in your hand than the bow of victory, Give a generous meal to your offspring, Long live the brotherhood and the will, We're going to love happy fate." Fourth. "Let the gray Dnipro remind About what's in the world of the earth, Where the ray of the sun shines and shines, Where the spirit of disobedience is eternally alive." I don't think anyone has any suspicion of any political orientation or ideological involvement in this text. And the music is proposed that was Hymn under the Soviet authority of Anton Lebedinz. She never stained herself or compromised herself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u37	Alexander Masenko, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u38	Vladimir Alexiyovich, well, what you've read, you know, I even like the words of this Hymn.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u40	And I looked at the silence. He even groomed you, you saw. This is also true of what many enjoy. But perhaps 300 votes won't be found for most of them. The way you look at it, if all the different hymns -- and the lyrics and the songs -- were tested in the people. For the people to hear a sociological survey or a referendum, someone can do it in the election of the President or something. And then there's a vote based on the will of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. I just didn't have time to make the right proposals. But I'm still hoping because the words are good, this rating project will get the most votes, and then we'll make a constitutional proposal. The procedure. We're going to get 300 signatures and then we're going to get 300 signatures under the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u42	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u43	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Please pass the word to John Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u44	Ivan Sidorovich Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u45	Volodymyr Alexiyovich, we have at least 2 classics in the hall of Ukrainian poetry. I don't think their ear would be too happy to hear such a text. Well, I don't want to argue with you about that right now. I want to ask you a question. And why don't you have the first line of today's National Hymn that Ukraine hasn't died? Why do you think it is unique to the time of Shevchenk and is not at all typical of the present days of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u46	Thank you for asking. Dear John Sidorovich, the thing is, it doesn't suit me. Hundreds, tens and hundreds of thousands of voters are also coming to the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, and to the President of Ukraine, and to the Head of the Supreme Council, and to me as the author who needs an anthem that does not divide our regions and the population of Ukraine but unites. So it was prepared by Tush, Michael Tush, that the text was neutral, which would unite all the Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u47	Vladimir Alexiyovich, thank you, sit down. The replica. Quiet. No last names, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I got up and ran because I heard about it from the Anthem of the Soviet Union. Why Deception? We should immediately suggest that Putin has returned. This is the best option. Why do we have to go so long to what you want, some people want from that faction. And that's why I think that the pause that lasts for 10 years when our high-ranking government officials spot their lips is silent and they don't want to proclaim the sacred words for which the history of Ukraine is, "live, Ukraine!" in no case fits that context, because we are still alive and will live, and the glory of Ukraine will not lie, as Taras Grigorovich said.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u49	Asadchev from procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have another question for you. You know, respect for the state begins with respect for its symbols -- the flag, the coat of arms, the anthem. I'd hate for us to have a farce about this today. And the venerable communists, you're well aware that this question, without politicization, is in the plane of change to the Constitution. If you wanted to address this issue in such a context, then you had to introduce a bill amending the Constitution, article 20, in accordance with the Rules that exist. Let us not pretend to be active symbols of our Ukrainian independent state today. Because if we do not respect them, how will they respect us? And I would ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to take this bill off the table right now, because it totally doesn't fit in the context and violates the existing Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u51	Thank you. Levko Grigorovich Lukjanenko is invited as the author of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u52	Dear Mr. Golovo, Ukrainian Republican Party, Leukko Lukyanenko, Yulia Timoshenko faction. Dear colleagues, in fact, we must comply with the Constitution. After the Constitution, after 96 years, you see, many years ago, and to this day, we don't have the text of an anthem approved by the Supreme Council. Thus, we are obliged to do so, not to drag him away, for God knows him for a long time. This is what article 20 of the Constitution requires of us, and that is how we act in this regard. Now it's about me. I, of course, listen to the offer of the communists, I recognize their right to have that view, but at the same time we understand that Ukraine is on the verge of two worlds, it goes from one society to another society, and so the hymn problem actually matters where we look: do we want to legitimize the old, or can we move forward? Of course, in view of Ukraine’s future development, which we imagine would probably require a new text, it would have to be the text that corresponds to the spirit of our people. Where did the hymn come from? In the middle of the 19th century, you know, it was the spring of the nations. In those empires that existed then, the Russian Empire, the Austro-Hungarian Empire and so on. Slovenia began to revive and rise, and Ukrainian intelligence began to be born, and this intelligence was partly polarized, partially ruined, but somehow it began to return to national sources and to think of national destiny. At such meetings, Chubinsky once took and sang the hymn, and he sang the poem he wrote. This text was enjoyed by this society, cultural, intelligent society, and they began to spread it among people. People sensed in this verse, in this anthem their dream, their soul. Why is Shevchenko immortal? But because the people in Shevchenka’s verses saw themselves. Shevchenko was talented, and he said brilliantly that everyone imagined that he could not say so brilliantly. Similarly, the text of Chubinsky proved to be a talented literary form in which people’s dreams, desires, and aspirations were expressed. And so this verse went, went, went to Ukraine, and so it came to our time, in fact, 150 years. There's the original text of Hymn that we know as the first four lines: "The Ukraine has not yet died both glory and will, The brothers of the young will also smile at us. Our warriors will die like dew in the sun, And we, brothers, will rule in our own side." And it did. "The soul and the body we will lay for our freedom And we will show that we, brothers, are a Cossack." This verse was further improved, and in general it found some improvement in literature, but its essence remained. That was John Lavrovsky. He lived in 1822-1873. He wrote a slightly different verse, but the first verse remained. In 1865, Verbicki wrote for this verse, which has been spreading throughout Ukraine ever since. And with this hymn, all the fighters for the will of Ukraine walked, sang it. And then, when 359 soldiers were standing in front of the machine guns under the market, they were singing, "Not yet dead, Ukraine." And this hymn was associated with the struggle for independence. And so, no doubt, it should be approved. We're a nation that doesn't respect tradition very much, but when I adopt an anthem, I come out of the fact that we have to establish this traditional anthem as the National Anthem. Even the foundation is already in the Constitution, for it says that the national anthem is to become the national anthem. We may not be much in the world of nations when the national anthem becomes the national anthem. Generally, when they were formed, experts, poets, and musicians gathered and wrote the National Anthem. We have the great advantage of making the National Anthem a national anthem.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u53	Thank you. Yes, please, questions. Sign up if you want. On the board, please explain. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u54	May I have Mishuri Valery Dmitrovic, please? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u55	Valerius Mishur.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u56	Valérie Mishur, Communist faction. Dear Levko Grigorovich, I have deep respect for you, but I would like to confirm the words Paul Silent said: Let us not be devious and let us be honest with the Ukrainian people. You know very well that in his time Kravchuk promised that we should hold a referendum on symbolism. So I respect the symbolism of the Constitution because I'm a law-abiding citizen. But some part of our nation doesn't accept this symbolism, and you know it very well, you don't have to be deluded, because it hasn't passed a social test. The same, let's say, with Hymn, which is being proposed today. Why not create, say, an institution to discuss it in society? Let society express itself, let's have a few texts, let's involve the outstanding poets we have today. And then let's pick something so that we can be honest with each other and not blame anyone, not us, let's say, there's that side, not the ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u57	You know, first of all, about wickedness. I see no evil on my part or on the part of those people, such as Paul Silent, of those who support Himmn Chubinsky for the music of Verbitek. I can't see. It's just that we're standing in traditional positions and we want that Hymn who was a national who sang everywhere to become a national anthem. There's a straight line here. As for the communists, well, I recognize your right to ask this question and to propose another text, we are in a democratic state. But I think it's still, you know, a drag. We've been 13 for 12 years, an independent state, and we've already adopted the Constitution in 1996, so how much can we draw? I don't mind, let's announce a further discussion here, but in the end, our vote shows the ratio of political forces and is not enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u58	Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u59	Look, the words of the East, the music of the West. Now the second verse in my text is, look what he's saying, it's a Western style: "And the eagerness, the sincere work of hers shall yet prove The will of Ukraine will be broken loudly," - that's gallicism! So the text itself has a compatriot. And I think it's exactly what it is today. What do I have to tell you, my friend Mishur? Ukraine is in such a state that we can put together a completely different Hymn early, we're just becoming an independent state, we haven't yet become an independent state, and so after changing the words "the Ukraine hasn't died" to "the Ukraine has not yet died, and the Ukraine has not died, and the will has not yet." It's that minimum of historical corrections that are quite enough for us to make this national anthem the National Anthem.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u60	Alexi Remenyuk. Speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u61	None. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u63	The word is given to the minister of culture and art of Ukraine, Bogotic Yuri Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u64	Mr. Chairman! Distinguished People's Deputies! I would like to start my speech first, to say that today March 4 is 188 years old from the birth of the author of the State Hymn of Ukraine, Mikhail Mikhailovich Verbicki. The issue of the approval of Ukraine's draft law on the State Hymn of Ukraine is extremely relevant. Let me refresh some of the facts of the bill’s history in your memory. For its preparation, according to article 20 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the government formed a special state commission to prepare and conduct a contest for the better text of the State Hymn of Ukraine. The commission included leading cultural and artistic actors, cultures, historians, literary scholars, public and political figures, representatives of various political powers. A total of 784 projects were made available to the State Commission. The State Commission, after considering its results, noted that no text was found among all the draft texts submitted that could form the basis for the text of the State Hymn of Ukraine. At the same time, more than 500 proposals were made to the State Commission to approve the historical text of Paul Platonovitch Chubinsky's "Not yet dead Ukraine" with some changes in the text. His tune, as we know, is the music of Michael Verbicsky before the "Zaporozki" exhibition, which was written in 1866 and the choir from which he became the next national anthem of Ukraine, "Ayet Ukraine has not died." Today's bill was submitted by the Ministry of Culture and Arts and was discussed and approved at the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on June 14, 2000 and supported by the President of Ukraine, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, and introduced to your consideration. This issue was discussed at a thematic meeting chaired by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, discussed at meetings of the relevant committees of the Supreme Council, and experts participated in factions. The proposed bill is a vivid epitome of the idea of gaining our country’s independence and, in our view, completely reproduces the content and form of the nation’s self - expression with its heroic past, which is well connected because of the present and the future. I'd like to point out that as every piece of music, it has its wholeness, and so to look at Verbic's music from the text of the poet Chubinsky, it's kind of incorrect. Even in Russia, when the anthem was changed from "God King of the House" to that Soviet version, well adapted to the present, they didn't take music separately and some new text separately. The authors who were working on the previous text were working on it. I mean, it's not just about the national symbol of Ukraine, it's about the Hymn, it's about the whole art, and I'd like to pay attention to it. In addition, in public and political practice, the text has long been used in various political, public action measures, and the Ministry of Culture and Arts is therefore asking for the support of the people's deputies in this bill. I would also like to point out that at committee meetings when the bill was being considered, a change was proposed in article 3, namely: the word "legislature" should be replaced by the word "law". So there's going to be a law that's going to be developed that will determine the punishment or the imposition of an act on the national anthem or the use of an anthem in the public policy and state practice of Ukraine. I've got everything. Thank you for your attention. Prepare your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u65	Will there be questions? Please sign up. Light up, please. Taran. Next Costinjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u66	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary, the president's project is normal, let's say. But 2 articles in this project are very unclear on where and how this anthem can be implemented. That is to say, there is something common in contrast with what Leukko Lukyanenko does. I mean, don't you think that after that, if, let's say, we were to consolidate and accept the presidential option or the Leuk Lukianka option, well, let's say, Presidential, we needed to develop a law that would regulate, let's say, the order of execution of this anthem, that is to say, the order of execution of this anthem, that would be given to the relevant committees, because the President is only saying, in the course of state action. And if, let's say, in a village that doesn't matter in general, this anthem is being performed, it turns out that it can't be executed there for what the President gave. So another needs a law that regulates the order itself, an anthem procedure along with what you said about punishment for acting on the national anthem and all that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u67	It could be a law or another legal act that would determine the application of an anthem, its use in public policy and state practice in Ukraine. How People’s Deputies Decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u68	Kostinuk, please. Next Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u69	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear reporter, it is known that the anthem "Not yet dead Ukraine" was, is, and will be, primarily, a national anthem, regardless of whether it will be legitimized now or whether it will be legitimized later. That's a national anthem. Why do the President of the Ukrainian State, his coven, not once do government officials perform the national anthem of the Ukrainian State, and will they be obliged to carry out the bill on certain occasions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u70	Of course, I apologize, but I would ask more literature to use words for bending and so forth. I'm here from the point of view of the bill's report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u71	Mikola Vasilovich Kravchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u72	Please pass the word to Boris Ilchi Oliynik, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u73	Olinick's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u74	Yuri Petrovich, I remember when we changed the anthem in those Soviet times, an entire commission was created, where I played the role of connecting these classics to the secretary of one CD, which demanded in "live, Ukraine, Soviet state" to remove the word "state". And we, by the way, at the time the totalitarians gave him an oatmeal, so that he was released from work after a while. I think it's got the Assadchev's reason, maybe not to ask this question right now, but to think a little bit about it, because with regard to "Not yet dead Ukraine," this great song, it did and performed its historical role, there are no questions, but there are differences. And you have to think about it, because the first line is, "She's not dead yet." - it's a fifth double from the previous anthems. There's one here anyway. What are you looking at?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u75	I think Boris Illich, the Supreme Council, the National Deputies are determined with you, how to proceed, what to make. But once again I repeat that in public and political practice, the text is used even in Soviet times, told me by Zacharychenko, the head of the Cuban folk choir, that there was this song in the repertoire, and he, in truth, did not announce what and how, but simply announced: the folk song "It has not died yet." And the philharmonic confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u76	Time's up, please sit down. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich. Next Yavorowski. Prepare, please, time is coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u77	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", the Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, reverend people of Ukraine! Of course, the words that were offered today in the anthem "Not yet dead in Ukraine" are absolutely right. And it's not the president's choice, where Ukraine is both glory and will, that's the Leukka Lukianka variant he's offering in the historical version of "The Ukraine Has Not Died." Because every day minus a thousand citizens, even more. Every day, two villages disappear from the map of Ukraine. Every day. Today, we wonder if we should or should not take an anthem. But maybe if the President had this hymn in his head, maybe he didn't sign those agreements about the transfer of the gas consortium. And I'm going to say to Mr. Leschenko what he did today. I certainly read it, and I like the scriptures. If only they had approached Verbatic's words, as it is stipulated in the Constitution in part four of article 20, and especially where "the glory of freedom and freedom fighters, the glory of the Fatherland for ever and ever," that would be good. You got it. But I'll remind you, Mr. People's Honourable People of Ukraine, that as early as September 3, 1996, after we adopted the Constitution, we made a decision that we had entrusted to this government, that there had been many changes, that the government had been given to prepare, to conduct contests, to predict the text for Verbic music. And what were the contests? What have we seen on TV, we've seen the summation, we've seen the transparency of approaches to this complex? We didn't see anything like that. What? We didn't even see a normal discussion about it. Today, it is timely to remember that it is now necessary to start with an anthem and end with an anthem. I only remember once Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin started here when he sang the choir "The Ukraine Has Not Died". So it was okay, it was a celebration. Then someone must have yelled at him that he had stopped doing it. Who can yell at the Supreme Council's head, I don't know, I'm just guessing. So, dear friends, obviously, that project 1073, introduced by the Ukrainian People's Deputy, cannot be accepted because it conflicts with the Constitution, he's honest about what he says, I understand that these could be changes to the Constitution. The most appropriate option is Leukka Lukyanenka. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u78	From the Committee of Olujko Vitaly Mikolaiovich, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. Vladimir Alexandrovich, you're after him. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u79	Honorable Chairman, distinguished peoples of the deputies. On behalf of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, which at their joint meeting supported the draft Ukrainian Law introduced by the President, I would like to say the following. First of all, the Supreme Council of Ukraine must carry out its constitutional duty, a kind of constitutional debt that we have not fulfilled since the adoption of the Constitution. The other one. Only constitutional laws should be considered in Parliament's walls. And out of respect for our national MPs, all we have to do is consider constitutional laws. And some historical facts. The State Hymn was approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on January 15, 1992, without a word, only with the music of Mikhail Verbicki. On June 28, 1996, the Constitution of Ukraine, article 20, contains a warning: the words to the anthem can only be approved by the constitutional majority of the deputy corps. And no official irresistibility interferes with Paul Chubinsky's words, "It has not yet died Ukraine, neither the glory nor the will" to represent our nation, both for its citizens and for the rest of the world. From these words, many public meetings are started, and these words are taught by schoolchildren, and Ukrainian athletes are now singing these words, putting their hands on their hearts, no less inspired than the French do their Marseilles. Today, the President asked Parliament to consider the Law on the State Hymn without delay. Our committee is the key to this issue. The committee believes that the symbols of the State, if it is a nation with a great past, are the very ones that set up history. Very often, the National Hymn is the product of national music or poetry, but it is associated with it in most citizens with what is called a national character and tradition. Instead, we still think it's possible for some people to get angry, say, the Anthem of Independent Ukraine begins with the words "not yet dead," which means it can end. I dare say that such an attitude stems solely from our ignorance. Let's think about why he'll never let himself fool a Pole like that over his anthem, "It's still Polish." Whether the Croat over his anthem "is not yet quarrelsome" because they know their history. After all, these anthems, like ours, were born in the past century during the stormy spring of the nations, were born as the answer of the then enslaved nations over the captives. For example, in Polish poetry, poems are deeper and more powerful than the text of the national anthem, many of them are both Mickevich and Slovak and other major Polish poets. Is there any Polish music that is more pronounced than a melody?" And Poland hasn't stopped yet."? Of course there is. Consider the wonderful words of Chopin. But no one will think of offering to improve the music or poetry of their national anthem. We Ukrainians have nothing to be ashamed of. Indeed, Chubinsky’s words should not be measured to the same extent. The verses of Shevchenka, Frank, or Forest of Ukraine. Indeed, the music of Verbic is simpler than the genius. A fox. The committee is convinced that it is possible to write beautiful poems for Verbatic music today. Some have tried to do so, but we want to do it, and there has always been a taste of parody, because the fighters for the will of Ukraine died just like Chubinski said. And the 100th-thousandth stadium after a popular estradian sings the same way today captures Chubinsky's words and makes them sing something else almost impossible. For the words of our Hymn are simple, profitable, and exalted. And it's just as simple and uplifted music. Recall that the Russians recently gave up the beautiful patriotic song of Glinka, which was still too difficult to perform and returned to the music of the familiar anthem of the Soviet Union. But they have Mikhalkov alive and he wrote new words. Both Mikhailo Verbicki and Paul Chubinsky were sort of figures in the history of our culture relatively modest. But let's think about it again. In 62 C.E., the archduke Paul Chubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u80	Vitaly Mikolaiovich, how long do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u81	I'm done. Masterful colleagues! The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule at its meeting with the Committee on Culture and Spirituality decided to support the bill tabled by the President of Ukraine. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u82	No questions? Have a seat, please. Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich Next Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, we often ask each other: Why are we living so badly in Ukraine? And since it's not bitter, every time you come to the conclusion that we shouldn't live. Because we have the power of actual occupation, the power that basically gives national interests for some of its short-term benefits, and most importantly, that almost all branches of power, including us as the legislative branch, are lacking political will to say, here we go, not otherwise, we would have come somewhere by now. As to our painful subject today, which we are discussing. I had to see and probably many of you had to see how the same Americans treated their Hymns. The same Americans don't care about a lot of things, but when the Hymn is done, some people have tears in their eyes. And when we are today, look, when the Hymn is being performed, most of them are just whispering their lips, and someone is singing "The Unmovable Union" on the same tune, and someone's not singing at all. That's the reality. Today we are discussing almost two alternative texts. Yuri Petrovich, Minister, probably already gone, I once suggested to him, the French have one wonderful prize in them, for the worst literary work ever written. There's a prize for the best, and there's a bonus for the worst. So, the honourable supporters of this text, there's no politics behind it, I'm just telling you as a professional writer, as head of the Writer's Association. I am prepared for this very text of Hymna, which is proposed here, to award the worst prize written in Ukraine. Believe me, just like a professional! Because of this, I think we probably have nothing to discuss. And the last. I'm telling you, I don't like "not dead yet," either! I would sing: No, Ukraine is not dead, nor is it my will. But there are things that exist beyond our political will, beyond our tastes. There is this song with its tragic history: when it was created, when it was sang, under what conditions. I am absolutely convinced that we need to now calmly, wisely and I call on the left wing of our Parliament to vote just for those words. I'm convinced that this hymn, these words will be temporary and, for God's sake, this temporaryity will be very short so that we can get rid of the power that I've already talked about here and our indecision. And in order for Ukraine to really become, I think they will, they will be normal words and they will have to write them, not delimiters, but there are people, there are professionals, there are silences, there are fights, there are Boriss of Olives, there are enough people to write, but now we need to accept these words. It seems to me that history itself obliges us to do so. I think we'll do that on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u84	Hinzburg Olga Petrovna, the next is Bespallian.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u85	Dear National Deputies! Honorable Predestination! Dear voters! Speaking of and going out on this rostrum and talking about such a complex question, it's very complicated and it's more difficult to talk about than even the state budget of the country, and I want to make a point. Why is this about an anthem? In fact, in Ukraine such an anthem as it is today, it is perceived by everyone differently. Well, that's not the way it is. And our areas, there, the other east. This is because he is not fully accepted by the nation, and for another reason, his love for it is not welcomed by the State. School education, some kind of business, music or an anthem, everyone treats it as a matter of fact. This is not a form of behavior today for the leaders of the State, including that of young people. I wanted to talk about it because when we watch art movies or some other television program on TV, this depravity goes where a person who will not only refer to an anthem with disrespect but also to his state, to everything. This is the problem of our nation. And today, when this issue is being considered, and it's being introduced to the Supreme Council today, not to be considered, but to get back together here -- the opposition between us, not even the leaders of the state who are supposed to be there when almost what the Constitution accepts. Well, that's what I'm saying to myself. And I also respectfully refer to the words that Chubinsky wrote. But it's a very nice song, it's a very nice song, it's loved by some. Some don't like it, but it's not an anthem, and that's something you should talk about -- both music and words, not an anthem. What am I trying to say? Maybe it's not a good time we're looking at it. And what would you like to see in an anthem? I speak from my constituents, they listen to me. What would I like to see and hear? It's when an ant plays to make an ant walk around the body, and you stand there and listen to a prize, you'd be called a feat on some guy you could go under that ant to make you want to do the best thing. And look, the hymn should embody in the image of a man, huh? The embodiment of the best, most eloquent features of Ukrainian character: this is love for the land on which it was born and grew, an unchangeable sense of belonging to the great people, and involvement in all its perfections, a sense of personal responsibility in a large and small country, for all that is being done in the world, it is to cultivate flexibility of mind, extraordinary industriousness, inexhaustible optimism, courage, endurance, endurance, constant modesty, mental sensitivity, kindness. For those who hear this hymn, he must bring it up. And when he had heard it, he went down to it, and was worthy and proud to pass over the world the burden of his homeland. But I have to finish my speech to say, people today aren't ready to talk about an anthem, they don't have a decent life today, and we're talking to you about an anthem, and the Communist faction says that we have to solve all the issues that social, social problems concern our person, and then we have to solve the hymn issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u86	Boris Bespali, please. None. Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u87	Andrew Schlell, Julia Timoshenko’s faction, Ukrainian National Assembly First of all, of course, I would also like to say two words before the main speech on what. Of course, in the words, "I'm not dead yet." There's some doubt that she hasn't died yet, some of these. But that's not the first thing I do in an anthem. I remember saying, "Our enemies will die like dew in the sun." Now, in today's situation, we understand that "wrecks" like dew will not die in the sun. This is very important. But on the other hand, you know, I wanted to support the previous speakers, but they threw away now, and maybe it wasn't in vain, because there were certain forces that actually wanted to put this topic into discussion now in order to sow a conflict between the opposition, inside the opposition. You know, on the other hand, the Polish anthem is mentioned here, and it also starts with the words, "Aye, Poland doesn't die while we live." In translation, this means very good words that have been taken away from us, so we are strong. The strangers have been taken away, so we will force them to take it away. So here, in this situation, "Poland isn't dead yet." Sounds normal and positive. And again on the historical analogy. Well, it's happened. There are words fixed, good. I would also like to criticize them. And there are also many aspects that I would like to reinforce. Of course, I actually like the English national anthem, which begins with the words "Lord, Britain, over the seas." It's been gone for a long time, it's long gone in history, a whole other state is in control of the seas now, but that's what the British are singing about. So in every nation, different traditions, and, well, this anthem confirms our national tradition, which, of course, needs to be changed, but it needs to be changed gradually. Along with the change in national tradition, both national and national anthems will change. Because now we have this unpleasant dualism, like I do, there's music, and there's no words. There's music, and we're asked all the time, me, in foreign delegations, why do your athletes, government officials, other people don't even move their mouths when it sounds like an anthem? And it's not because there's disrespect for the words "not yet dead," but because there's disrespect for the state itself, and for the symbols of the state, and for the national anthem, including. I remember that in one trial of the Public Prosecutor’s Office, police officers did not even allow themselves to get up during the execution of the State Hymn. This tells us that in this country there are a lot of things that need to be done through Parliament and our vote. What do I mean? What if we now establish the National Hymn as a national anthem, we're going to bring some national harmony. Although, on the other hand, this issue may need a broader discussion, it needs greater support and consideration in making decisions, because, in fact, Ukraine has not yet died, but there are many threats to its death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us consult. We've already taken 10 minutes of the Rules. Should we continue for another five minutes, or should we finish? Five minutes and we'll hang? Okay. The word is given to Kirilenko. The next Hare. Please, it takes five minutes for both of us to bet. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u89	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Honorable colleagues may not need to speak in the essence of the words proposed by the drafters of the bill in detail. Because for most of the hall, the position is already set for itself. But on the other hand, I personally care about three aspects. Why the president of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, 10 years of government in Ukraine, couldn't submit an anthem, decided to do so right now, today, which certainly doesn't take away the need for texting. That's the first one. Secondly, when the country accepts the hymn, there is neither President Kuchma nor Prime Minister Yanukovic nor other senior officials who should be concerned about this issue, and we should hear their position on this matter. And the next. I have a question for the higher Ukrainian authorities. The only economic space accepted. If this goes on, four years later our country will have no currency, the Ukrainian bracelet will be cancelled for the benefit of the Russian ruble, for example. We're not going to have a gas transport network, we're going to have our own companies. It's all going to be in the northern neighbors, maybe somewhere else. In these languages, it is either effective to debate the hymn at all when factories, economies, gas highways, and so forth appear. I will vote in favour of Lukyanka's bill, but I don't have that question taken away from the President of Ukraine and the senior Ukrainian officials, whether they're honestly giving the text, or whether they want the left and right flanks of opposition to discuss and discuss how the first verse, second and third should be, whether it should be the word "live Ukraine," or whether it should be "dead Ukraine". I think these are the moments and motives that are present in the actions and the President that he is considering today and in the actions of those who have brought this issue into the agenda today. And in general, back to the point, I would like to say that the project introduced by President Kuchma has absolutely declarative and slashed positions. They do not say where, and under what circumstances, and who should carry out the text of the State Hymn of Ukraine, as opposed to how it was done in Lewuk Grigorovitch in the bill. It clearly states that all perform an anthem and at the opening of monuments, solemn activities in educational institutions, and sporting activities, which are intended to study the text of the State Hymn in all without exception teaching institutions. It is pointed out that there is responsibility not only for some conditional act on the text, such as that of the President, but for failing to comply with the law. All these positive moments are present at Leuk Grigorovitch. So personally, I don't think that I need to discuss with the text that the Communists are offering, is their right, and music is their right to offer. I will vote in favour of the Lukyanka project. But I want to say that in opposition to Lukyanka Kuchma, Kuchma's project is aimed at formally approving the short text without its actual implementation, because the President's anthem is not expensive to me. And we will always remember that when we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u90	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u91	Thank you. I'm done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u92	Ivan the hare. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u93	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has long come for us to fulfill our obligation to pass the Law on the State Hymn of Ukraine. I'm sorry, it's a totally wild situation: for the seventh year, the State Hymn of Ukraine exists only in music, and the words are not finally approved. In performing the National Hymn, citizens are forced only to listen passively to music. For Ukrainians, songs, and other punishments cannot be invented. So delaying the adoption of the Law on the State Hymn of Ukraine is a continuation of the abuse of its people and a surprise to the entire democratic world. As far as choosing music and words are concerned, our options are limited by the 20th article of the Constitution of Ukraine. This article clearly indicates that the State Hymn of Ukraine is embodying itself in the music of Michael Verbicke and in the words of Paul Chubinsky in the poetry "The Ukraine Has Not Died". The 20th article of the Constitution states that the National Hymn of Ukraine is the National Hymn of Verbic Music. Ukraine knows only one national hymn for Verbicko music -- the Hymn, which is embodied in Verbicko music and in the words of the poetry of Paul Chubinsky, "The Ukraine has not died yet." I've looked at a dozen dictionaries to clarify the concept of hymn, and in all these dictionaries, the word hymn is treated like a great song. Where did you see the song without words? So in the National Hymn, there's a very real word for Verbic music -- this is the poetry of Paul Chubinsky's "Not yet dead Ukraine." Our job is just to select the necessary words from the poetic work of Chubinsky, "The Ukraine has not died yet," that's all. This is the understanding of the 20th article of the Constitution of Ukraine that the President of Ukraine and the national deputy Levko Lukyanenko can only be approved by law by the words of the poetry "The Ukraine has not died yet." The bill of the President of Ukraine proposes to approve the Hymn with the words of the first verse and the song of the work by Paul Chubinsky. And Leukko Lukyanenko proposes to add a second and a third verse to this. I think it would be better to limit ourselves to the first verse and the chant that makes Hymn a fine and purposeful symbol of national unity. With regard to the Ukrainian MP's bill Lechchenka, his proposal to approve the State Hymn as the music of Anton Lebdinec's copyright team and Michael Tush's words directly contradict article 20 of the Constitution of Ukraine and in this part I cannot take our attention. For the State Hymn of Ukraine, as the music of Michael Verbicki and Chubinsky’s words, history itself votes. This song ascended to the heights of the Hymn from the density of the people themselves, not from any party preferences. Let me remind you that this song has been sung by Ukrainians for almost 150 years. In fact, in all the national formations of the 20th century Ukrainians, this song was sung like the State Hymn, and in the Carpathian Ukraine, the state that was established at Zakarpat in the late 1930s, this song was approved in the status of the State Hymn by constitutional law approved by Parliament. And all that means is that the song "Not yet dead Ukraine" that was created not under order, but came out of the denseness of the people that broke through before us centuries later and polished by history itself as the best approaches for the State Hymn, and everyone understands that. We do not lose sight of the fact that this song is already being sung as the State Hymn all over Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u94	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u95	So, honourable national MPs, you can talk a lot, but it's a 100-year-old thing written down by the Constitution in such a way that we have to, and we have to do so -- accept the anthem for the music of Verbic and the words of Chubinski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u96	This question is now under consideration. Time's up. There's a 30-minute recess. Then let's continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. A draft Law on the Standardization of Payments from Housing, Utilities, and Fuels is announced for consideration. The Professional Committee suggests that the bill be considered within 25 minutes. Five minutes are proposed for the report. Is there no objection? Please, the Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economics and European Integration, Romanyuk Sergey Andriyovich, is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u98	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill is designed to introduce the only principles for the granting of housing benefits and the payment of utilities and fuel. He predicts three key positions. The first is the regulation of consumption of services for which benefits are granted. The second is the legislative consolidation of the powers of executive authorities and local self-government authorities to define the standards of consumption of services for which benefits are granted. And finally, it's a personification of people who, apart from the benefits, have benefits. Today, the benefits of quartering and utility are determined by 25 legislative acts, using 11.3 million people and their families. However, only 11 of them have the right to benefits within the limits of the applicable rules, in the remaining 14 laws, this regulation is not provided for, that is, 620,000 people or 5 percent of the total number of those with such benefits. The bill proposes that all the population benefits, including those in employment, for which the benefits are defined on a professional basis, are placed on an equal footing. It is proposed that the benefits be fixed to the total housing area for housing calculations of 21 square meters per person and an additional 10 and a half square meters per family. The same area is essential for the calculation of housing heating benefits. The bill proposes defining consumption standards for gas and electricity benefits to be placed on the government, i.e. by legislation to strengthen the practice in force since 1996, and by water supply, water management, heat use, heating water, fuel supply to local authorities according to the legislation in force. It is estimated that the benefits will be paid for only one apartment at the place where the allowance is located. For the purpose of a clearer legislative definition of the circle of people who live with and use the benefits along with it, the project is designed to define the concept of a family benefit. In fact, this definition coincides with article 60 of the 2003 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine. In general, the bill is aimed at establishing more targeted benefits and introducing the principle of social justice. It will also provide an opportunity to reduce the amount of benefits to be paid from the budget by 60 million dollars a year. In its consideration of the bill, the Committees of the Supreme Council made comments that concerned, first of all, that the bill restricts the benefits of certain categories of citizens. I've already called you the number of citizens' tax categories for which benefits are normal, 95 percent of all benefits. It is fair to place the remaining 5 percent of the population's income categories in the same conditions as the vast majority. The second point was that it narrowed down to those who belonged to the family. The contraction applies primarily to children. Their relationship with family members is limited to 18 years of age, or underage children. This observation was made by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy, on Environmental Use, and on the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. And I would like to point out that in due course the bill, the Law on Status, the social status of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster have been amended accordingly, and article 20, paragraph 11, of the Act lists the composition of the family of the pensioner, whose wife, husband and minor children are under the age of eighteen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, for questions. If there's a need, please sign up. Five minutes. On the board, please. Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u100	Please give the floor to Alexandrovska Ally Alexandrovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u101	The people's representative of Alexandrovsk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u102	Deputy Alexandrovskaya, Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Sergei Andreevich, in your statement, you said in your report that this law was socially fair. How can this law be considered socially just when it violates the rights of the most vulnerable? I mean today, single pensioners, lonely disabled persons, lonely participants in the Great Homeland War and so on, lonely people who today live in their semi-destructive private homes, built as King Panka, or in apartments that are being destroyed today, because they can't keep them, the apartments that the Soviet authorities gave them for their work, today they have an excess of living space in those apartments. By your law, you put them in front of the need to become scum, to give up these apartments. It is not possible to sell these semi-destructive houses and apartments. No one else will give them housing. Why don't you take these people's interests into account?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u103	Thank you for asking. The fact is that the bill does not concern single pensioners but, above all, those categories of the population with occupational benefits. And I've given you the number of these people, that's 620,000. All human beings in all of Ukraine. This is five per cent of all those receiving normal benefits today. Therefore, the category of the population you are referring to does not apply to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u104	Sergei Matvienkov, European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u105	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Sergei Andreevich, I'd like to ask you two questions. The first question is based on the rules proposed in this law, as you plan to regulate the relationship between regions, different regions of Ukraine in establishing certain norms and benefits at levels. Local authorities. That's the first question. And the second question, I want to continue with the question that my colleague has asked, is that part of the law. I'll give you a concrete example: there are two participants in the Great Homeland War, and they're paying for the apartment today. Unfortunately, one of them is going out of his life, as it has been, especially in recent times. 21 square meters plus 10 square meters of what's left of it, and the rest of the excess area, what's it going to be like for that person? What, change this apartment, sell it? Perhaps, for such a category, it would be worth considering options when they stay alive twice, one of them leaving life in order for the other to pay this half at a concessional price? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u106	Thank you. I would like to draw your attention to article 8 of this bill, which defines the category of people to whom this bill does not apply, is the first. Second, with regard to the size, return, standardization of services to which benefits apply, they will be differentiated by region, because costs and, accordingly, housing and utility tariffs vary from region to region. This relates to certain natural economic and other conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u107	Alexander the Road, People's Landing Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u108	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Sergey Andryovich, the question is simple. The president defined this law as urgent at the request of the government. But the question remains, and it remains when this bill is signed and sent. Please tell me the total amount of benefits that, if adopted, the adoption of this law will increase, will it remain that way or will it decrease? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u109	Thank you. Well, first of all, I want to say that the amount of aid that is created by these categories of services, which unfortunately is not budgeted today, amounts to 2.4 billion dollars a year. The benefits that apply to this category of people. We're reducing them by 60 million dollars in order. That's 2.5 percent of the total amount of benefits that are being paid today for residential services and fuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u110	The People's Deputy of Vernigor. Please, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u111	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Your Honor, you have on occasion announced that 650,000 people will be reduced or left behind. You know, we have 42 million people in Ukraine living outside of dignity, so they have less income, I won't talk. And you're offering to reduce them even more, at least 12 million just use the benefits. How does this relate to 22 articles of the Constitution? Because it says that even one person cannot reduce the standard of living or leave any benefits. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u112	Thank you. And once again, I want to point out that the vast majority of the people who are concerned with this regulation are those benefits that are provided on a professional basis. I want to list these laws that give you these benefits. This is the Law on the Status of Judges, on the Police, on the Prosecutor's Office, on Culture, on Legislation, on Health, on Fire Safety, on State Support for the Media, on Plant Protection, on the Organization's Legal Basis for Combating Organized Crime, and so forth. So it's primarily about standardizing the benefits that are being given to citizens today by professional means.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u113	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. From the committee. This is a presentation by Bondarczuk Alexander Vasilovich, the head of the subcommittee. Please, Alexander Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u114	Dear President, the People's Deputies! The Committee on Social Policy and Labour has considered a bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers on housing benefits and utility and fuel benefits. He considered the matter on 5 February 2003 and it is recommended that the bill be rejected by the Committee of the Supreme Council. The following facts are the basis for such a decision. First. The bill is contrary to article 22 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which states that existing rights and benefits cannot be limited to new laws Second. The bill was contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision of 3 June 1999, which established the concessional composition of families, including family members, members of the military, militia and members of the fire department. Third. The bill is contrary to article 64 of the Ukrainian Housing Code, which also determines the concessional composition of the family. It also contradicts the Law on State Social Assistance for Lowly Families. And the last. The bill only provides for a judicial procedure for the settlement of disputes, for the granting of housing benefits and utilities. In other words, the bill introduced would in fact have to be called not by the Law on the Ordering of Payments, but by the Law on the Cancellation of Payments of a Very Large Part of Ukrainian Citizens. I do not agree with the rapporteur from the Cabinet of Ministers, who may not be aware, but he did not refer to the very important category of citizens who are liars, who today receive appropriate benefits, as soldiers. To date, the Constitutional Court's decision for this category of citizens has made it clear that the concessional family includes not only minors but children, their families, who live with the facilitator. The same applies to the composition of the family of militia personnel and members of the fire department. On this basis, the Committee considers that the law must be rejected and its contents are not in conformity with the title. There is no streamlining of benefits in this bill of speech, in fact. All these issues relate to the Cabinet of Ministers and local self-governance bodies, which will decide whether or not to grant benefits. The benefit standard is introduced for housing only in the bill, which is 21 square metres per person and 10.5 square metres per family. But the benefits would also have to be regulated by telephone, transport services. There is no mention of this in this bill. Therefore, the decision of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour to reject the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! If you have any questions, please sign in. Put it on the board. Mikola Noshchenko, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u116	Dear reporter! I'm not happy with your report, because apart from criticism, there's no constructive. What about now? Perhaps when this bill is being drafted, we would be able to resolve this issue - 21 and 10.5 - to resolve the issue of the composition of the family, which is being interpreted differently today. And there are other situations in life. For example, the family today has no right to choose between benefits and social assistance; the family has no right to choose between the form of benefits. You know that housing is burned by electric appliances, and the benefits are not included. Have these issues been considered on the committee, not in terms of overthrowing the bill, but in terms of helping people who today so badly need the support of the State through existing benefits and subsidies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u117	Thank you for asking. The point is that the bill is aimed only at reducing the rights of Ukrainian citizens. No proposal is in favour, let's say, of these citizens. Everything is directed only against their interests. Therefore, there is only one title left to this bill: "The order of the payment of the benefits". There is no more design in this bill that can be incorporated into existing legislation and solved any problem. It is therefore necessary to draft a new bill and our committee is ready to make such a bill and it will be introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u118	Yuri Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u119	Socialist Party, Lucenka. Dear Alexander Vasilovich, please confirm my assumption that this law will in any case be repealed by the Constitutional Court if even its adoption here is such that it violates the rights of citizens who are prohibited by the 24th article of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u120	Indeed, article 22 of the Constitution is prohibited. To enact laws that would limit existing benefits, the rights of Ukrainian citizens, so it will still be repealed and I do not think that this will happen. People's deputies understand that it is contrary to the current Constitution and will not be voted by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u121	National Deputy Odaynik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u122	Mikola Odanik, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity." I agree with you that this bill is directed against our disadvantaged people. But please tell me, why do you think the President thinks this bill should be considered first? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u123	Our President, of course, my personal opinion, is not an independent President; it is actually a puppet in the hands of the major financial world structures that today write us all reforms, the International Monetary Fund, particularly the World Bank. It is now up to our President to meet the demands of these organizations, to transfer all our economic activities to market conditions, including the payment of housing and utility services without any guarantees from the State. That's why the President insists on this law. He wants to bring our army, our militia to the point where they're actually going to be sold to make a living somewhere outside Ukraine, participating in all American adventures, including in Iraq, as our chemical protection battalion is now requested to go there to earn a thousand bucks.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, please. forced to clarify. This is a bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers and the President has nothing to do with it. The Cabinet of Ministers wrote: "Please consider the bill submitted at the next session of the Supreme Council." It's not about looking at it first, let's be politically correct. Please, Olga Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u125	Ginsburg, 161 district, Communist faction. Alexander Vasilyevich, I think about it a lot, and it comes to me, it comes to me, I think. So much money is spent on subsidies, helping the State to cover electricity, gas, coal, it's still only paying from another pocket. Why can't we just give people a normal salary and a pension to cover these expenses themselves? Is that what you think I'm thinking, or is that where I'm going? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u126	Well, in principle, in Soviet times, wages and pensions were enough to pay for rent and utilities without any targeted help, we just had very low tariffs. To date, after we have moved our economy to market conditions, the interests of the new owners are clear on which to make the maximum profit, including through the increase in tariffs. In this situation, I think that it is necessary to maintain the State's benefits for certain categories of citizens, because, if we pay just a little bit more than the wages that this difference has entered, the flat-rate subsidy, people will spend that money on food first. It's not enough for a normal life, it's going to be a flat-rate debt. Therefore, the way out of this situation is not to make the basic industries nationalized so that they are managed by the State for the benefit of the majority. But you do understand that these issues are resolved by the socialist State, not by what we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u127	Yes, Alexander Vasilovich, thank you, time is up. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Ten minutes to talk. Please point out who signed up. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Boris Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u128	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Honorable Multitude People of Ukraine! In the form of this bill, which Mr. Bondarczuk, speaking from the committee, rightly called another name. I wrote a different name for myself, and I wrote this: to go around the decisions of the Constitution of Ukraine and the actions of the Constitution and the Constitutional Court. That's what I called the bill for myself, and that's what I'm proposing to call it. I want to remind you that this law violates, first of all, article 48 of the Constitution. I'll remind you, maybe the state forgot what it is: "Everyone has the right to an adequate standard of living for himself and his family, which includes adequate food, clothing, housing." If we do this, the requirement of this article of the Constitution, you can do all the benefits, what they say is benefits, and in fact it's just a supplement to becoming a sufficient level, then you can cancel. And the 47th article also states that citizens in need of social protection are provided with housing as well as with local self - government. Now, in particular, what is written down and provided for here is the transfer to the Cabinet of Ministers of Power and the setting of regulations for the consumption of natural gas, electricity to which benefits will be distributed from their payment, and it will only reduce the amount that people are already using today and which is put into the budget. Responsibilities to local authorities regarding the establishment of these standards will be as set out in Odessa - 350 L per man for a period of one liter of water. That's what we pay for. Can we do that or can't we? I guess you can't. And finally, about who he's going to refer to. The army is no longer safe, they will destroy the army. Who designed this bill? And, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, you made a note, and before that, a distinguished representative of President Alexander Zadrodzny made a statement that the President had designated this bill as urgent. So who's the representative here today, are you or the Road? Let's split up, please, which one of you is the President's representative. And I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u129	I'm asking you not to give me directions! That's it. Come on, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u130	Thank you. But I ask you not to comment on my speech, you have no right to do so, even though the Head of the Supreme Council! That's what you need to remember. You can't comment on the national MP's speech! So who designed these projects? I've got a piece of paper, it's got a secret line, and I'm going to ask the Security Service to check it out. It is directed by the Ukrainian Social-Democratic Youth Unit, which recruits people into social protection units, consumer rights, land resources, ecology and labour protection, veterinary medicine, as well as the regional offices of the Maintenance Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u131	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u132	That's who prepares these things and who the ideologists are. So I ask, honourable national MPs, not only not to support this, but to report that it is theft before the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u133	I ask you to study the Rules, and then you will speak. Please, Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction. I'm interested in the document, not the Road. I say again, there's no letter for that. Please, have a seat. Olga Hinzburg, get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u134	Honorable National MPs, Honourable Leader, Honourable Voters! I'm very short, I won't waste any time. That is the problem for me when I consider this law. I wanted to ask myself, what's this for, what's this law for? To solve the problems of the state and the problems of our electorate. Does this law solve the state’s problems? Well, maybe in part, if you say, "The Cabinet of Ministers is a state." But this problem is being translated into the hands of local authorities, local authorities, who also have no funds to finance these subsidies and benefits for all. It's a problem, and it's not clear why the state is doing this to say that I gave up everything today, and in the city you decide. Well, they're patient, so let the local leaders put up with it. Is this problem being solved for our voters today or for Ukrainian citizens? I'm looking for an answer for myself. Well, of course you don't. Today, we are not talking about whether we have not enough laws or whether these laws are not the right ones. The problem is that those laws are not being resolved, they are not being implemented as we have. I came from my constituency today, and I don't know, you're probably going to back me up because you were there, too, and you saw it. Well, at each reception, 100 people. Well, I'm telling you, personally, all the issues of subsidies, non-recovery of compressed gas, solid fuel, non-requirement. If you have a debt, they don't issue a report. I'm asking again, well, who's more comfortable not to give a statement today at the CHECK in order for a person to form this subsidy for himself next month? Stockpiling, stockpiling. There's an oral instruction or a letter from the Cabinet of Ministers. Once again, the benefits were lifted by adopting a government budget, and the benefits were removed from children with disabilities. If you're 16 years old, you're disabled, you're using the benefits, if you're 16.5, then you're not using the benefits. And again, when I take these laws for myself, understanding that something needs to be done in this state, I look and think, even what we have, we can't do in a city. Well, we can't. So I took it again, I suggest it, as it were, we counted it, just recently I made proposals to the Ministry of Social Policy, when total income from many-year-old families was included in total income. The error was, it was an error in the methodological recommendations. It's like that again. What I'm saying. I suggest. I don't speak of myself, I speak of myself as I often communicate with people very much. What she wants from us today, from the state, is to hear from the MPs who are here. They are: you talk a lot there. What do they want to hear from us? That we will at least once make a normal decision that will respond tomorrow to the fate of every citizen. One thing at a time. Today, this law does not prove to be such a decision. It's a game again. I propose not to uphold this law, but to make such a normal decision as to give people a normal pension, a normal salary. They'll pay for everything. Yesterday, one of the majority of the deputies on TV spoke and said, "Yes, we have improvements, light industry and the food industry working because there's everything in the shops. Look at how much sausage, how much meat, and how much butter. Look at this. And in Soviet times, they stood in line." I'm saying, there's nothing to buy, there's nothing to buy. It wouldn't be today. But people have nothing to buy. Liver sausage is eaten, and it's still a holiday. That's how people live in my neighborhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u135	Thank you. Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u136	I'd like first of all to take the initiative and to rename this law. It states that this law regulates the provision of housing and utilities and fuel benefits by law. This law regulates the removal of these benefits. No more and no less. This was clearly to be written in this law. And the common thing is that in a country where people are fighting for an increase in living minimum for survival. We have no right now to talk about eliminating or viewing the benefits. That's it. The order of the settlement, if it's fiscal in nature, the prohibition, we don't have the right to talk about regulation here, but we have to talk about eliminating the benefits as a phenomenon. So I urge you to remember this law very easily. He's 2414 and not to vote, I'd say yes, to say no, so that he doesn't fall back and get in our hands. The fact that he violates the Constitution is that he violates other laws of Ukraine. That's one side of the coin. But the other side of the coin is that at the time, at the time of the escalation of social tension, at the time of the escalation of dissatisfaction and the inability to provide basic living standards, we have no right to look at the benefits. What's more, we need to learn more about problems, see why there are so many queues now to get subsidies, how many people are being made to not be able to get them. Consider the rural areas. Now winter, snowed, man has no opportunity from one inhabited point to another to confirm that he has not so far become rich that he is still poor, poor and miserable. And we're still putting extra needles on her. So I know, really, and I agree: we all know where this wind is blowing. And if there wasn't a letter from the President, it was the word of his representative, who said that the President considered the bill a priority, because we remember who refused, who vetoed the Retirement Act. The Supreme Council raises pensions -- the President declares this law to be declarative and vetoes. So I'm not surprised that the President's representative in the Supreme Council believes, together with his President, that this law is a priority for them, because it is the first priority in the destruction of the gene pool of the Ukrainian nation, in the destruction of the basics of what is left of the people, that is, the expectation of the possibility of any way of making ends meet. I'm completely in solidarity with a committee representative that no one is going to pay utilities first. You have to take care of your health, your medicine will buy, your food will buy, your debt will go up, your debt will go up, you can throw people out of your apartment, you can take them away, you can privatize what's going on right now. Therefore, I urge you not to adopt this law explicitly, but to send it as one that cannot be considered in the higher legislative body of Ukraine, except as it contravenes the main law of Ukraine, the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u137	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u138	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of Our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. I think we're talking about an eternal theme for the Supreme Council, because no one can right now count how many categories of benefits we have in our country and how many laws govern the granting of these benefits. And I'm not talking about how much budget money from the central and local budgets is needed to satisfy these benefits. That is why this law will not solve this issue. "Our Ukraine" takes a firm stand against the abolition of aids for participants in hostilities, war veterans, disabled people, disabled workers and so on. And most people in this room support that position. On the other hand, we might ask ourselves, "Why are judges, prosecutors, police, military personnel worse than those listed above? Is it just these structures that rich people are working, or are there simple employees who are doing their duty honestly? ’ Or, perhaps, if we offer to strike him first, there are only bad people and bad employees. This too cannot be said, for this will be an irresponsible statement. Thus, we feel that this law does not solve this problem. Ask anyone, or most of the other people on the street, any voter, who's better off, to have a paper allowance that's in the legislation, but not approved by real money and budget, or get money in the form of living money? I think age is going to say, living money if you can't bring it home, or a coworker brings it home, or a social worker, or maybe a post office, or something like that, if you don't have a line, and it's going to be paid all the time. But the present government, and in the present state of affairs, is unable to resolve the issue. If she cannot solve the question in this way, she should not come up with an offer to cancel the benefits, some particular categories she feels are worse than some others to which we leave these benefits. So the proposition of our faction is that we can do an experiment on how to move from the relief system to providing money-based address aid in some area. We do endless experiments with special economic zones, special taxation regimes, pilot projects with government decisions in one or more areas. Why can't we do a social experiment in some area, let's do a small one, and move the cashiers to get concrete living money. I think the Supreme Council can come up with such an initiative. And it's going to be at least an attempt, without waiting long, to try to solve this issue. And as for the specific text, we have a lot of questions. Two keys. Why isn't it synchronized in time with the budget, with the budget process, and now it's popping out after three months as the budget is adopted? And why 21 square meters per person, plus 10.5 for each family? Where did the calculations come from? At least in the text of the bills that are submitted to the deputies of these accounts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u139	Dear colleagues! Question completed. With motive? Please, Peter Petrovich Toloczko. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u140	Dear colleagues! It's not the first year that we're discussing the problem of aiding different categories of the population, and every time we talk about it, it's one thing to go to the helpdesk. There seems to be a logical and obvious conclusion, but for some time again we are witnessing that social protection reform is a mechanical reduction in benefits. Our faction is not against reform, but today’s system is not just. As far as housing benefits are concerned, they are not always assigned to those citizens who urgently need them. Therefore, the project proposed by the government, however principled and proper and necessary, needs improvement. We cannot agree with the mechanism for implementing the proposed principle. First of all, any reduction in the benefits should be accompanied by appropriate compensation. It is not clear, though, that the adoption of this law will make the material provision of a large number of people worse. And that's after we've already suspended a number of benefits from the budget law. That's why. Well, we have a number of examples, even of what my predecessor just spoke of in the rostrum. Rejects the aid rules set by the project. In our view, these standards need to be reviewed to match at least the average size of a one - room apartment. It's about paying the rent. Otherwise, the intention to organize the tax system will become a normal decline in the income of the taxpayers. So our faction thinks -- "The People's Government" -- that this bill requires substantial work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The decision will be made on the day of the vote, taking into account the proposals and positions that have been declared here. I am announcing a draft Law on State Control over Land Use and Protection. Rapporteur of the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, Danilenko Anatoly Stepanovic. He suggests that the committee consider it within 30 minutes, or 5 minutes, for the report and for the answers to questions. Dear colleagues, I would like to welcome today Danielenko Anatoly Stepanovich, 50 years old, and with the courage with which he came to Parliament today. This is a demonstration of respect for Parliament!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u143	Can't we not report it, huh? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the Ukrainian Land Code, State control over land use and protection is one of the main tasks of the executive authorities on land resources. I would like to draw your attention to the following: the fact that such an important function of the State as control over the use and protection of basic national wealth is being carried out in the order envisaged by the Temporary Position, which has been in place since 1993, and is approved only by an order of the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources. Of course, this does not enable them to effectively resist and counter the multiple violations that occur in the use of land by their owners and users. In addition, there is an alarming trend in the rapid increase in delinquency in the further development of land reform. The arbitrary occupation of land, the damage to agricultural land, the failure to meet the requirements for the use of land as a target, the concealment of accounting and registration -- this is a far short list of the most common land-law violations and the reason for this is the lack of a proper legal field. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in accordance with the requirements of Article 188 of the Land Code of our State, has developed a draft Ukrainian Law on State Control of Land Use and Protection, which is before you. The main purpose of the bill is to improve the project on State control of land use and protection, prevention of land-related offences, and legal enforcement of measures taken to remedy detected land-law violations. The bill contains 14 articles setting out the basic tasks and principles of State control over the use and protection of land, the composition of the authorized executive authorities to carry out it, as provided for by the competent authorities. The project also foresees the rights of State inspectors in the area of State control over land use and protection, with proposals for social and legal protection. The bill is primarily designed to ensure that public authorities, local governments, landowners and land-law users comply more effectively and more effectively with public policy in the field of land protection and rational use. The adoption of this law will substantially improve land legislation and contribute to more effective land administration. It should be noted that in implementing Presidential Decree 720 of August 19, 2002, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on December 25, last year, established and approved a state inspection for the use and protection of land. The inspection is a government body of government that operates in the composition of the State Commission and is subordinated to it. To some extent, this has contributed to the fact that the implementation of the bill does not require, honorable national MPs, additional material and other expenses. The bill is based on the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Land, Water and Forest Codes of our State, other legal acts. It clearly defines the terms used, which removes the possibility of arbitrary treatment and prevents abuse by officials of specially authorized bodies. Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the draft of this law is being worked up by the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice. The main developer is the Country Committee on Land Resources. Please approve the project that you have proposed in the first reading, taking into account your comments, suggestions, and submitting it for your second reading. The report is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. Ready to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. Five minutes. Yes, please light up on the board. John Bastrig, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u146	I think we're going to adopt this law, it's very important today. And this experience of meeting with voters shows that our legislation on land allows for a lot of, well, inaccuracies. What should be your first concern? First, there must be lands of reserves that no one has the right to lease for more than one year. As prescribed by law. But it is being violated by a number of local authorities. Second. It is necessary to take into account and should be prices for leases and leases of land, depending on their ownership. If it's food, it's the same thing, if it's under construction, it's different. This requires that the second reading take into account the wishes of our farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u147	Thank you for asking. I want to tell you the next thing about the land of supply and reserves and their efficiency of use. At present, the employees of the State Commission system are in inventory of the use of these lands, and in many cases, I would like to draw attention to that, I would like to ask your support, the honourable people's deputies, is the President's decree, if we're having a discussion about the land of agricultural destination, which speaks of the social protection of landowners, of pies, and in this case we're having a specific conversation about the land of supply, of the reserve. There is clearly defined to be one and a half percent of the land area's normative assessment, that is, these costs are to come at the expense of a rural council as large as I said, to solve the many problematic issues that are before each community. In this direction, I thank you for your offer, your comments. We're going to increase our jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u148	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u149	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Kyiv region Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, I join those greetings that came out here on behalf of all the inhabitants of the Kyiv region, let it be all right in your life and in solving the tasks that lie ahead of you. But my question is this: aside from those authorized executives -- Derzkomzem, Minecoresurs -- there are two central executive bodies that have a bearing on the use of land -- this is the sanitary and epidemiological service, state control over the maintenance of sanitary legislation in the land use process, and the authorized executive authorities on urban and architectural matters. Please tell us why they did not agree with the contents of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u150	Thank you for the questions raised. When you talk about cooperation with the State Committee on Construction and Architecture, that is, you raise questions about the development of areas that should be built up and that should be under special consideration by the State and the authorities of self - government. By the way, we've held consultations, and there's appropriate proposals from the State Committee on Construction and Architecture, and I think on the second reading, they should be taken into account. The question that you raised is something that deserves much attention. And thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u151	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u152	About the Ministry of Ecology. The draft law states that the Ministry of Ecology must first monitor the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u153	Thank you. Vladimir Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u154	Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, you have stressed the need to form a legal field to control land use and protection. And that's really what we have to do, and I think the Supreme Council will adopt this law. But it's not just that. The point is, in Ukraine, there is a massive violation of existing land reform legislation, the local authorities do not want to take action. If they even take the case, the decisions of the courts are not executed. It's actually vachanalism. So I have no illusion that only by adopting this law will we solve the problem. As you think, there is more to be done to avoid these violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u155	First of all, Reverend Vladimir Kirilovich, what must we do? Follow the laws that are valid to all who work, to all branches of authority. That's first of all. Now it's about the essence of this law. It is this law that makes it possible to strengthen the work and demand to control the use of every square metre of land effectively. Today, the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources was commissioned to conduct an inventory on the effectiveness of defence land use. Other lands, you know, without the legal status that government land protection inspectors are supposed to have, it's extremely difficult for us to do that today, and in many cases it's impossible because there's no legal security.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u156	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u157	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Baranowski I, Anatoly Stepanovich, join those greetings that have been delivered to your address. But at the same time, I have two such questions to ask you. First of all, you and I haven't been able to do it in the first place, by law, to give you the commission of your service to conduct this inventory of the lands you're talking about today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u158	We've already received an assignment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u159	And the military, and the railways, and the others. You know how the land is being embezzled. And as far as the law is concerned, what you're reporting right now. I don't know how effective it's going to be when your inspectors, you're offering them to get them into all the territories with guns in their hands and stuff. Are we not creating this, strengthening a police car that will be able to strangle an effective landowner who is inconvenient? And that's how we're going to be doing tax work today, let's say with the owners of industrial enterprises. Will we not pass this experience on to the earth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u160	I think that the government inspectors who are working towards land protection today should work primarily in the legal field. And by no means do you use your position of service, for it is a violation of the oath of a civil servant. And I, as chairman of the committee, have to work and investigate to get everyone working in the system to do it. Now about the essence of the weapon, as you say. How many times have there been: Cuts in the Crimean Autonomous Republic of the Valuable Species of Trees, in Zakartat, other cases, in fact, when they perform their function as statesmen, they in many cases risk their lives, sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u161	Olga Hinsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u162	Thank you. Hinzburg, Communist faction. Anatoly Stepanovich, I'm very short, two questions. They're so important to me. First. You answer me, if you can do it, if you can't, then I'll come to you. For example, if we are considering this law, in this law, can another law regulate, for example, the lease of lakes that are on the land of the village council, it is necessary to agree with the village council, is it not necessary? I continued to listen to your speech, and you said that you agreed to your law with the Ministry of Finance, with others, with others. Tell me, please, right now, it wasn't before, it's brand-new. People who rent land, colporteurs there, peasants, pensioners mostly get some money for this land, for example. For example, 100 dollars. The person who rents this land instead of 100 bracelets gives, for example, three sacks of oats. And he only gives two, and the third one takes the tax, the tax, he takes the tax. And if he's a pensioner, this money has been returned to him through mail before. Now the Treasury and the tax inspection or whoever did this, I apologize, and they don't do that, they don't return that money, they return it back to the country council because of the treasury. And a lot of people don't get that money. Did they agree with you or not? I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Olga. This is the norm that you said in your last question, this is the norm of other laws, not the norm of this law. But if, in fact, I will answer. The point is, when you're talking about renting land, renting pies, and people get at the end of the agricultural year, there's October, November, or December, we think, of course, for that month, there's some kind of sum that's going to be paid progressively, it's pretty clear, like a citizen's income tax. We offered and stood in that position. Today, I think it's the people's MPs who understand and support it. If it's pensioners, if it's peasants who live in rural areas, then you don't have to count, and then you have to return, and maybe immediately, there's people's deputies sitting here right now, and you don't have to count it, and you don't have to count it in the village council for treasury bills, and then back, but that's our position to the State Department. Let's talk about bets. When all the land was state before the dispossession, and those farms that worked built those stakes at the expense of the appropriate cost, or the farm, or the state resources, everything within the population, I mean the water supply, the stakes, they're today in the use of rural councils, and they rent them these bets.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u164	Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko, please the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u165	Tuck, Communist faction. Anatoly Stepanovich, I also welcome you, good health. But I have a question like that. Can you please tell me the land issue is an economic category?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u166	Do you have one question?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u167	Yes. Economically, I get it, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u168	This is one of the directions. Because it's social, it's natural, it's manufacturing, it's both legal and political, Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. It's a wide range of jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u169	Thank you. Aren't you finished? Please, Alexander Tkachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u170	If it's an economic category, and I understand most deputies, that's the question. Why are you, your committee, along with the Ministry of the APC, preparing draft presidential decrees to regulate land relations? The President of the Transitional Situations from the second half of 1999 has no right to regulate economic issues by decrees. You prepare, you give, the President probably doesn't read, sign and use them, and today you're making a reference to the President's orders. This is a fundamental violation of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u171	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Mikolayovich. I think we're basing our work on today. An earth code that works. On the Constitution. And if you're having a conversation about the President's recent decrees on strengthening land protection, about the formation of registration, and this is a particular topic, I'd be happy to have at least two or three hours of communication with the walls of the Supreme Council on this issue, it's organizational action. No way, President. Believe me, it is. And who better to know, if the President signs the decrees, he reads them very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u172	Thank you. Time's up. We've already moved on. Please have a seat. The co-report invites the head of the Committee’s subcommittee on agrarian policy and land relations, Leszczenko Volodymir Aleksyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u173	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro I'm going to tell my voters that I'm going to make a statement to the committee. The point is that, like my faction friends, I have a personal position on the Ukrainian Land Code, which is accepted with appropriate violations and is intended to take the land into the peasants. So from the committee. Having considered and discussed the proposed bill, designed to implement section 2 of article 188 of the Ukrainian Land Code and aimed at improving the order of State control over the use and protection of land, preventing violations of land legislation and taking appropriate measures to eliminate land, the committee notes that the individual provisions of the bill are not in line with the Ukrainian Land Code, primarily for monitoring soil fertility, and so on. During the committee’s discussion, it was also noted that part of the bill’s articles were of a general nature and did not define clarity. Indeed, here the national deputy Solomonin has already pointed out that it is necessary to write out the mandate to ensure State control and the protection of lands and other state authorities. It would be appropriate to exercise public and self - control. It was also a matter of what the law should say about norms and the monitoring of standards. And it really did raise the question that inspectors would be given the right to wear a sign, or create a new armed formation. This bill is also considered by the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport and Communications, as well as on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, with some observations to be taken into account, both propose to accept it as a basis. The same recommendation came from the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work, but without notice. According to experts from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the bill can be based on a number of observations and suggestions, such as the project, that monitoring of land, including State soil fertility monitoring, is separate from government control in the field as a function of government administration in the field of land use and protection, the principles of which are defined in chapter 33 of the Land Monitoring Code of Ukraine, and the establishment of the procedure for its implementation is based on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, part 6 of article 191 of the Ukraine's Land Code. Therefore, there is no reason to include land monitoring regulations in this law, including soil fertility. Keep going. Further work on the project should take into account that State control over the use and protection of land, in addition to a specially authorized executive body on land and a specially authorized executive body on environmental and natural issues, can also be carried out by authorities and institutions of the health and epidemiology service and others, as already mentioned. In view of the above, the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u174	No questions? Yes. Please sign up for five minutes. Light up on the board. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u175	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear reporter! I'd like to hear your opinion, or perhaps this law, given your committee, of the intensity of the work in it, to finish preparing for the second reading literally over the month. Because the lack of State control over land use and protection right now in the spring, it's all the time leading to us losing our budget and losing our land, which we need to protect from everything, including the capture of reserves. You know, there's probably a whole health area surrounded by Bacai. Nobody's in control! So maybe these men with guns will come? Then let them come. Let's just be quick to adopt this law. Is your committee ready? I have a question for you as a representative of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u176	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations will work on the bill in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations. But if there is not much to do, we can speed it up and bring it in immediately after we have worked on it for consideration by the Supreme Council in the second reading. And those remarks that you're making, I'm taking, and I'm also seeing the members of our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u177	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u178	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Vladimir Alexiyovich, I have two questions for you. Articles 5 and 9 of the draft law that you passed, don't you see there's a little bit more authority to give to the authorities of local self-government? We understand that this is a popularly chosen institution that shows the will of the people, and we are expanding the most, so to speak, the executive power that has lost the trust of the people today. And the following question. Can you see that part 1 of article 10 should extend the powers of State inspectors more widely? And surely there is a need to make adjustments or proposals for eternal imprisonment for those who have failed reforms in the countryside and have led our lands to desolation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u179	Thank you. I take your suggestions personally. And I also agree that the organs of local self-government should have more authority over this issue to the organs that are closest to the people. With regard to this observation about life imprisonment, such a thing, I think that if the system of power in Ukraine is changed, then the measures will be taken toward those people who illegally commit these acts to the peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u180	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u181	Thank you. Kirilczuk, the faction of Yulia Tymoshenko's block, the "Fatherland" party. I have a question of this kind. You said very little from the committee, practically just monitoring and stuff. And there are so many claims to this law that I think it would have to be re-readed, because it would bring all the functions of land and police, and arms and give them unlimited rights, it would have been when the code was introduced into the hall. And he was rejected in the hall. So it's a separate law. This is the first time. It's different. How it is written that there is no need for additional funds when there is a need for both cocards and uniforms and pistols and cars and additional financial resources. How is that so?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u182	Well, with regard to the comments made by the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, I've expressed them to everyone who was there. If there are other comments, suggestions, and additions in the national parliaments, please send them in accordance with the Rules. We'll look at it and put it on the second reading. With regard to the extra cost of maintaining the apparatus, really, which means that the Cabinet of Ministers, which introduced this bill, notes that these will all be inspectors, and everything else within the limits of the fixed cost of maintaining the state apparatus. There were no other calculations to the Supreme Council Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u183	Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u184	The Honorary Reporter, the State Committee of the Land and is now to monitor the movement of land, but in all the countries of the world, in particular, we have translated the relevant French law, created electoral societies of land management, which have priority rights in the purchase of land, which determine the priorities of land acquisition and which closely monitor the market of land in their territories. They're located from the district to the district to the state. Don't you think the law must say that there is a need for such a public organization to follow the land market in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u185	Thank you. The Honourable Igor Rafailovich was just talking about the need to strengthen public control, but in these bills that are being introduced, the second one will be considered, it's about public self-regulatory organizations that will carry out this control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u186	Thank you, time is up. Please sit down, Vladimir Alexiyovich. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Carmazin. We agreed to talk for 10 minutes. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u187	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished Ukrainian people! I welcome the part that lives in the village of Karapis in the region of Kyiv, because Anatoly Stepanovich is 50 years old, and believe me, he lives there now. And in this village there are, Praise God, 10,000 pigs, 2,000 cattle, another 16 liters of milk. So it's probably normal there, in Coropis, living, I'd like the whole of Ukraine to live like this. And God forbid, Anatoly Stepanovich, and you, you could live like this for another 50 years. Now for the bill. This is finally the first draft signed by Yanukovic, and I've seen, where it's possible, to try to regulate what's laid down in the Ukrainian Earth Code. This is article 188, this is the development of which it is done. I want to thank the copyright team for going to this. And even though the competence of the specialized executive authority and its powers and ability to use firearms, table weapons, I think that's what's needed. Because the questions that are on earth today are the most pressing questions. And what the oligarchs make with the earth today is a very important question. If there was such an organ, would it not have allowed Prime Minister Kinah to sign the orders that he took and gave 23 hectares in Desert Water to whom? A private enterprise called Dynamo Kiev. And you know who the oligarchs are. So I think the first thing to do is to go and get that sanatorium back into state property, that unit that's going to be created then, specifically authorized. I think by that time, the head of the administration will be different, because the law on the President's office, which we have filed with the national deputy Kravchenk, will be passed and will be completely circumcised of what is going on there. Yeah, well, honourable national MPs, my comments in general will be brought to the attention of the second reading. By concept, I support this law. I agree with the science department's comments. And I think we should take it on the first reading. And I've been fixed. It's been reported that in Karpis, 450 subscribers of the Village News. Thank you. The country’s patronage party also subscribes to this newspaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u188	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, if I had known that Carmazin had signed up, I probably wouldn't have spoken. I just didn't know. Dear colleagues, the discussion of every bill that's put forward on this rostrum for me personally, I think it's probably for each and every one of you to draw the attention of our society, our authority, to the problem that has been put into this bill. So we need to think with you that after Ukraine's economic power has been completely drained, we have the last thing left, this is our land with you. Well, let's say it's fake, let's say it is. But she still is, thank God. And that's probably the only thing, if you want, maybe the last thing we should stick to today. We adopt this law very late when it's practically spread over the oligarchs, that's all. And here today we're discussing, Your Honor Anatolia, we've known you for a long time, we've still served as the national MPs of the Soviet Union, so you're proposing that the guns wear these guys. So I'm telling you right away, those who take the land of the oligarchs, they're going to go against yours with ballistic missiles. Because of this, you may not laugh with these pistols, indeed, and do not be afraid of people. And you, Anatolia, I just want to say, you've got a lot of compliments here, and I want one, if you can, just share your own experience that the sick man did, and I want one, if you can. Why, for example, did he not come to the trial? That you have such a secret, that you are drawn here, and that they are not brought to trial, nor is Melniczuk one governor, nor another. If you can, call them and advise them, and tell them that we have asked them to appear in court on the basis of their credentials. So here's to the subject. Bakaya was mentioned here, the society in our eyes was literally captured, well, the amazing historical piece of Ukrainian land, the Trachtomers of the island, believe me, where our knights were buried, where Igor Bakai now owns it. On what basis? Therefore, it may be necessary to think, not just to start with this number, but to think about how to take this piece of land. The world will not believe that it bought an island of amazing Cossack glory, bought an oligarch. We need to think, Mr. Anatoly, about whether we need a huge range in my constituency, a huge, hyper-European range today, or whether we can use it in a densely populated region. And these things need to be thought of, and the logging of the forests that are now being exported to the Polish coast like pins, the most precious tree we have. I've made a parliamentary inquiry, and now the Security Service is working there. So let's not touch the little things, the holsters they're offering, for some other thing. I am convinced that this law is absolutely necessary, and yet the state must take control of our Ukrainian land. I'm sure Thursday will have a great outcome in voting for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u190	Ivan Hare, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u191	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of "Our Ukraine." Dear National Deputies! Ukraine’s Law on State Control of Land Use and Protection is very important, and we may need to adopt it in our first reading. Yet, in his second reading, he will need to be worked hard to bring him to a good level. The point is that this law has a fixed ideology, an outdated ideology of the branch office. Thus, the distribution of powers among the special organs of central executive power is quite artificial, and there are many baptisms. We don't know what the central authority is responsible for. For example, in the 5th article, it is said that State control over the enforcement of legislation is anchored behind the Mineconresources, and State control over land use and protection is being strengthened beyond the State. Then we'll read that there's just as much control over legislation. I mean, where am I going? I am leading to this bill to inhale the ideology of integrated management of all natural resources. In this case, the earth is involved. There is a basic ministry, and this basic ministry should be given an appropriate critical mass of powers to implement state policy. Unfortunately, this is not in this law, so we need to act in this direction. Moreover, when it comes to State control, let us see if there is authority in this bill. Designated powers of the Supreme Council or of the Cabinet of Ministers or of local executive authorities. None. Then what state control are we talking about today? In this law, we speak only of the distribution of powers between the three special organs. These are the Minecores, the Minegropolitics and the Land. So this bill can only be finalized if we include the powers of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers and the local authorities. Without this, there will be no system of land protection or protection. There are still a number of such directions to improve this bill. In particular, the main tasks of State control need to be clarified. This is article 2. This article points out that the basic tasks are to warn people about the misuse of the earth and so forth. But there is absolutely no indication that State control should ensure that land is being resilient. So, honourable national MPs, this bill needs to be adopted in the first reading to unlock this problem, but in the second reading, I'm just asking the Committee on Agrarian Politics not to rush ahead, but to write a real bill that will have a complete system of public authorities with very clear powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u192	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Question time is up. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. With motive? Please, Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u193	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. I want to make the following point. We have to create a public organization that monitors the earth’s market just as we do in other nations. This organization must be selective. What we distribute in law between the three different state organizations to oversee the movement of the earth does not reduce the bureaucracy that will exist. Only an elected public organization, which includes government representatives, should monitor the sites together with the participation of local councils on land movements. Without such an organization, we will have nothing to gain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u194	Mikhailo Melniczuk, you have motive, right? Please. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u195	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we've already done so in the legislative field, well, we're not with you, maybe we've been strengthened. So this is how I'm going to vote in favour of this bill on Thursday, and I have to make sure it's absolutely necessary, but there's no way to discuss it. So where do we go all the time on earth? We've done so much, Vladimir Mikhailovich! I am speaking to the committee head, Tomic, that is not the way to discuss matters that are very important to Ukraine today, for agriculture on earth. We need to be a little wider, allowing experts from the earth to express themselves to those who have worked for decades on earth. No way, reverend! I agree with the national deputy Zaj, Karmazin and others who have spoken, I agree with them, but please let me say it to everyone, but that's not possible! We have to vote on Thursday. You have no right to ask questions, no right to speak, no right to vote or no right to vote. And I want to vote, but I'd like to say it before that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The decision will be made on the day of the vote, taking into account the comments that have been made here, and the suggestions. We have a bill on land assessment in time. I'd like to consult you, if that's the way we would do it, how would you like it? We'd listen to the presentation of this bill as the head of the State Committee, ask him questions, then take a break and let him go for whatever reason you know. Is there no objection? None. Dear colleagues, we'll continue for 15 minutes. There's no objection, I think you have it. Please, Anatoly Stepanovich. Announced for Project Review The Land Assessment Act. And then we'll finish it after the break, review this project. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u197	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! On the draft Land Assessment Act. The main purpose of this bill is to regulate the conduct of an assessment of land in Ukraine in accordance with the rules of the Ukrainian Land Code, the Ukrainian Law on Property Assessment, Property Rights and Professional Evaluation Activities in Ukraine, in compliance with the international standards of assessment. The bill sets out the principles for carrying out an assessment of land, the requirements for appropriate technical documentation developed during the assessment of land, the rights, duties and responsibilities of landowners, and the role of the State in land-based activities. The project sets out the methodological approaches for carrying out a regulatory and monetary assessment of land, an expert financial assessment of land areas, the methods and characteristics of carrying out an economic assessment of land. The legislation defines the objects of assessment, the types of land assessment: monetary, regulatory, and expert evaluation, the economic evaluation, and the application of appropriate land assessment. The assessment activities are identified in the area of land assessment, the professional training of land assessors, the qualification documents for assessors and the monitoring of their activities by the relevant public authorities; the regulation of land assessment activities in the area of the rights and obligations of assessment entities and land surveyors. It should be noted that the conduct of an expert land survey is intended to be based on methodological approaches, that is, income from land use, the setting of sales prices for similar land areas, and the accounting of land costs. These approaches were also based on the order of conduct, the method of carrying out an expert land assessment, which was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers not too long ago. There have been cases where the conduct of a monetary expert and a regulatory assessment of land is mandatory and restrictions on the conduct of expert and regulatory valuation of land by evaluators. There is an appropriate state-level expertise on technical documentation from the regulatory and monetary valuation of land areas, the review of reports from the expert monetary valuation of land and the order in which they are carried out, especially when this work is carried out with regard to the sale of land from state and municipal property. It sets out the order of state regulation in the area of land assessment, which is to ensure the objectivity and legality of land assessment, control in this area, implementation of international standards and rights in the creation of a competitive environment for operators, identification of training institutions in the field of professional training of assessors, is determined by the authorities of the State, which carry out state regulations in the field of land assessment, as well as the position on public, Igor Rafailovich, on public regulation in the field of land assessment. It should be carried out by self - regulating organizations, such as all - Ukrainian social organizations that unite professional valuers. And here, I think, in preparing the bill for the second reading, we have to work with you accordingly and with you proposals. What you said in the first draft is that they really deserve support and attention. The formation and activities of self - control organizations are governed by legislation on the integration of citizens, the assessment of property, property rights, and professional evaluation activities in Ukraine. The introduction of the proposed legislative act will improve public policy on land use payments, contribute to the development of a civilised land market and, in particular, the introduction of a mortgage lending system, have positive legal and socio-economic effects. The legal consequences of the adoption of the Ukrainian Land Assessment Act will primarily be the legal regulation of professional land assessment issues, which will severely reduce the possibility of unskilled or unscrupulous land assessment. Professionalization in the field of land assessment will be of social importance, since the interests of millions of citizens who have acquired or acquired land will be protected. Without a well-founded, professional assessment of land areas, the normal functioning of economic mechanisms is not possible. The adoption of the Ukrainian Land Assessment Act will have important international implications, as the project is based on international land assessment standards, and the proposed valuation methods will be understood by all of us in Ukraine. Dear National MPs, please approve the proposed project in the first reading and after appropriate revision in preparation for the second reading to be adopted as a law. Thank you for your attention. Ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u198	Please ask the reporter for questions. Let's take a look at the board. National Deputy Babourin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u199	Please pass Tkachenko to Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u200	Thank you. Anatoly Stepanovich, dear colleagues! I think there's no more deafness left in Ukraine that would never be repeated or tried on an agri-industrial complex. Today a draft law is being introduced, and read its title, the Land Assessment Act. Perhaps a valuable assessment of land is involved? What grade? There are different grades to be given. Hence, the very name contains what is not to be overlooked. And second, look, please, land valuers may be citizens of Ukraine, foreigners, and non-citizens. Well, what's more, what's the shovel that you can put in the draft law that's been passed by the committee along with the Cabinet of Ministers? And third, I think, the honorable Anatoly Stepanovich, there are three forms of determining the price mechanism or the value of the land. The first is the cadastral land, the second is the average yield in 100 years, and the third is the PNP, the average yield in 100 years. The first option is to have such a price mechanism that a hectare of land in Ukraine will cost at least $30 to $60,000. The second mechanism is 25-30, and the third mechanism is between $5,000 and $10,000 per acre. You refer to the decree or order of the Cabinet of Ministers, where the target mechanism determines from 1.7 thousand dollars to 5,000 dollars. Please tell me you can put such a bill into a session hall where no land or land is sold, a state, living space will be sold. So I'd like to take this bill off the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u201	Thank you. Dear Alexandre Mikolaiovich, when reading this bill, we need to draw the following conclusion. It is precisely the purpose of this bill and its adoption as a whole as a law by the Supreme Council, which prescribes a norm, a procedure that requires a professional approach to determining the value of an area or land. If you're saying there's no market today. He is today. And this bill, as the Supreme Council will adopt as a law, regulates not only among the agricultural lands. Let's see how the land is being used effectively today, how the evaluation is done, how the inventory is done, how the money is being measured, and how the budget is being filled. This is the direction of the act of this law. It's absolutely necessary. Because he prescribes the procedure, norm, and responsibility of a natural and legal person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u202	Mikola Evtichovich Melnik, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u203	Mikola Melnik, Vinnica, Ukrainian Socialist Party I would like to ask the same question, as asked by Alexander Mikolayovich. And what I'm saying is, as far as land assessment is concerned, I'm going to run a special authority. I realize that today the assessment of land is intended to be done in order to sell this land. But the assessment of the land that is being carried out by everyone today is not a question of giving a proper estimate of the land, it's an estimate of the land that is within the village, but of the food that is in the countryside, just to buy it for nothing. I wanted to ask you a question since the previous Land Protection Act. But I didn't want to say it, I'd like to ask you a question right now. And like the lands that we have in Ukraine, there's a lot of shelter with yadomymics. And in many areas, in almost all parts of the world, these nuclei penetrate the earth. As here, in this territory, how we're going to protect the earth, and whether we have a method of removing poisons from this land and destroying them somewhere. Because the earth, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u204	The question is understandable. Draw up a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u205	I'll be very short, short. First. It's a draft law that we've been looking at before. It also regulates, prescribes functions, norms, approaches that the State inspector is required to verify efficiency and quality, and to comply with land use standards, land resources, regardless of the form of ownership, I repeat, irrespective of the form of ownership. What do we do now? Now we're talking about this bill that we're discussing. There's a 1995 Cabinet of Ministers decree that approved the method of determining the normative evaluation. There's economics and money. The money is divided into both export and regulatory. It's standard for taxes, rents, farm and forestry losses, and exports for civil and legal contracts. So this bill does not define, does not approve, the methodology for determining the value of the land. Not long ago, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted a decree, which he approved, regarding the conduct of an expert financial valuation of land. This law does not regulate the determination of the value of the land, nor does it prescribe the procedure, the functions of executive authorities, self-governance bodies, natural and legal persons with regard to the enforcement of effective legislation on prudent and efficient land resources, and therefore additional revenues to local budgets and government budgets, especially the Land Assessment Act. He doesn't write the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u206	Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u207	Alexander Mikolaiovich, I propose the following not to detain MPs. Take an hour or two, take the TV and work. Alexandre Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u208	I'm not suggesting that, Alexander Mikolayovich. I propose the following. To adopt a whole package of legislative acts that stimulate economic development, because it's administratively what you're saying that we're not going to get anywhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u209	Andrew Schlell, please, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u210	Of course, I want to make this argument certain again, to welcome you once again with your birthday, to wish you the same zeal for other bills, but still very briefly. Can't we separate the assessment of the land in the settlements and in the villages of A the rest I want to be complemented by my colleague Mr. Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u211	Eugene Kirilchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u212	Thank you, Andrew. That's my question. For example, it is specific from the law. What are self - regulation organizations, and at what costs will they function? This is not indicated. And the second. The reviewer gets the license, and who issues the license?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u213	Thank you. Self-regulatory organizations are what Igor Rafailovich, experts, professionals who work towards land assessment, unite and defend their interests, stand up for their position. And they are united on the basis of public principles. This is not to say that the State budget should finance their activities, in no way. Please, we have the opportunity to write a second reading, let's make suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u214	Alexander Tkachenko, please. We've already had our discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u215	Dear friends! We don't want to offend Anatoly Stepanovich today. You didn't do your job to report this bill. And that's why. We have not long since listened to Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich, a respected man. And he said that the material and technology base over the past 12 years is privatized to 6 billion dollars. This is a coin against that balance sheet that Ukraine has. Because Ukraine has a balanced cost of an industrial complex, including an agro-industry, of 42 trillion dollars. Sold for 6 billion. Today, the land that has a minimum price mechanism is the one I said was scientific, not the Cabinet of Ministers, 90 trillion. They want to sell for one and a half trillion. You can't do that either! This bill cannot be considered, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. I ask you both God as Head, and Anatoly Stepanovich as Head of the State Committee, and of the National Deputies. As long as we don't pass 2 laws: the first is about the land cadastre and the second is about the valuation. Because that's the question when you asked the school to issue a license or not to issue a license -- which is the methodology, which is the scale and the person whose license will be further determined by the price of a particular plot of land.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u216	Alexander Mikolaiovich, this is very simple and easy to verify. There's a method that every professional evaluator works on. And him. You're told it's not, and I'm saying it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u217	Please state your position. Don't have a discussion. Yes. Dear colleagues! We'll continue the discussion after the break. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u218	Thank you, everybody. And thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m0.u219	I'll let you go.
