ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. I'd like your honors to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:28]] Registered -429 A total of 429 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague Bondarczuk Alexander Vasilovich. Let's welcome him, wish him all kinds of good luck. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. By decision of 29 September 2003, the European Elections Group, acting as a member of the Savčuk Volodymyr Mikolajovic's MP group, deputized to represent the European Choice Group, Matviyenko's Sergija Anatoliyovich and Sovkovic Vladimir Leonidovic. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputies. Ivy by Ivan Stepanovich, a member of the Democratic Initiative Group of Democrat Initiatives and its membership in the "Our Ukraine" faction. Ratznyak Sergey Mikolaiovich of the Democratic Initiatives Group of Democrats. Satsuka Vladimir Mikolaiovich of the European Choice Group. Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 Tuesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. Members of factions and groups, please make statements. In the meantime, if there's no objection, I'm going to announce the parliamentary questions that have come. Is there no objection? Thank you. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Raisy of Bogatyrov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the state of state funding in the area of culture in Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:55]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Boris Rajkov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of current legislation on the recalculation of previously appointed military officers' pensions. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:24]] For 105 Decision taken. Victor Yushchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the financial security of the social sphere of the city of Dorinsk Lugansk and the holding of the tariff rates on mines. " new" in accordance with current legislation. I'm betting on sending a request. [[10:05:57]] For 135 Decision taken. Victor Capucina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funds provided for in the 2003 State Budget for the restoration of water dams on the Tis River near the city of Tachyev Zacarpatsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:33]] For 131 Decision taken. John Gavriluk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the delay in the construction of the secondary school in the village of Vrhně, Sinivodny Sokolovsk district of Lviv district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:04]] For 132 Decision taken. Oleg Zarubinsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the improper financing of the implementation of the single state-owned automated passport system in 2003. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:31]] For 128 Decision taken. Oleg Grachev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the provision of protocols on access to markets in goods and services with members of the World Trade Organization. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:00]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Igor Ostas to Prime Minister of Ukraine [[10:08:29]] For 134 Decision taken. Anatolia Átovajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine [[10:09:00]] For-96 Decision taken. Mikoli Katerinczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the verification of the fact that he was trying to sell the vineyard company "The Iron Concrete Factory" by bringing him to bankruptcy. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:30.]] For 132 Sergia Slabenka to Prime Minister of Ukraine [[10:10:00]] For-119 Decision taken. Georgia Kruczkova to Prime Minister of Ukraine [[10:10:36]] For-96 Decision taken. Valentina Seminouk to Prime Minister of Ukraine [[10:11:14]] For-143 Decision taken. Michael Wolinz to Prime Minister of Ukraine. Department of Fuel and Energy to the Ukrainian State Committee on Water. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:43]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of an interdisciplinary commission in connection with the mass illness of children in an unknown disease in the village of Verbljana, bordering the Yavorov region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:15]] For 185 Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of debts on earnings to shareholders' employees. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:44]] For 139 Decision taken. Viacheslav Kirilenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the conditions for the approval by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the decision to approve Ukraine's participation in the creation of the Single Economic Space. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:16]] For 132 Decision taken. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the legality of the activities of press officers at the Cabinet of Ministers in the course of an incident involving the closure of journalists at the Press Centre on September 17th this year. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:51]] For-163 Decision taken. Viktor Borszewski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for blocking the State Liaison Committee and informing the implementation of the domestic microwave integrated television information system. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:21]] For-98 Decision taken. Anatolia Kozlowski to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the financing of the Youth Program in the Mikolai region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Z-74. The decision is not taken. The Head of the Office to the Attorney-General of Ukraine has been reluctant to respond to a parliamentary request for copies of documents on the basis of which the Press Service of the Attorney-General has prepared a report and a comment for the media on the presentation by the Special Representative of the Bureau of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:27]] For-98 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failure to implement the decisions of the Kirov court of Kirovgrad, the city of Kirovgrad by the Automobile Company Reform. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:56]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Mikoli Rudzkowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of evicting residents of residential homes for small families in Chernigow. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:27]] For-127 Decision taken. Mikoli Katerinczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the inappropriate reaction of the prosecutor's office to a parliamentary appeal regarding the activities of the agricultural production cooperative South Bug. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:56]] For 101 Decision taken. Vladimir Petrenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for his dissatisfaction with a hearing sent by a deputy to the Attorney General’s Office by a letter from a citizen of Suma. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:25]] For-93 Decision taken. Vasil Onopenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violating the laws of the Hustian District Police Department of Internal Affairs and the head of the Tachiv District State Administration. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:55]] For-119 Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization for the Verification of Abuses by Officials of the Hmelnicktsukor Company and the Legality of Disengagement of Workers' Families from the Company. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:29]] For 122 Decision taken. Gregory Omelchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the data on the murder of the responsible Secretary of the Monetary and Credit Board of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers, Mikoli Medolas, as a witness to the crimes committed by certain Ukrainian statesmen. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:00]] For 185 Decision taken. Mr. Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, on compliance with the tax requirements of the city of Lviv in the conduct of a survey of the economic activity of a society with limited liability of the newspaper of Lviv and a violation of a criminal case against its founder. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:38]] For-125 Decision taken. Viacheslava Kirilenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need for a criminal case for obstructing the professional activity of journalists in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the issue of participation in the creation of a single economic space. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:10]] For 121 Decision taken. Vassila Bartkov to Minister of Interior for the Department of Internal Affairs of the Department of Internal Affairs of the Department of the Department of Internal Affairs of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Ivano-Frankow area of road transport, which is equipped with technical means of communication. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:42]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Jury Karmazin to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the transfer of standardization, metrology and certification to the Odessa College of Standardization, Metrology and Certification to the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:17]] For-129 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Minister of Fuel and Energy for the negligence of the shareholders of the Kirovogradoblanergo company at the reception and transfer of the residential house in Kirovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:46]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Vassila Bartkiv to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for hearing aids for children with hearing disabilities in the village of Obolona in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:15]] For a-117. Decision taken. Ivan Mihowich, head of the State Committee on Television and Radio, Head of the Supreme Audit Authority of Ukraine on the protection of the social rights of workers and the preservation of the All-Ukrainian State Publications of Carpathian. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:49]] For-129 The flu of the National Deputies - Suprun, King and others - to the head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine on the legality of the actions of officials of the Dniprovo County State Tax Inspectorate of the City of Kiev regarding the child enterprise of the Russian Confederation Corporation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:27]] For 132 Decision taken. Mikli Kravchenka, head of the State Committee on Physical Culture and Sports, on the agenda of the Committee of State. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:54]] For-96 Decision taken. Group of National Deputies - Klukkowski, Tajnibok, only five National Deputies - to the President of the Football Federation of Ukraine on the ability to perform the duties of the chief coach of the Ukrainian team from football on public grounds. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:25]] For 178. Decision taken. Andrija School is the head of the Ukrainian National Fund for Understanding and Reconciliation regarding the reasons for the mistreatment of the leadership of the Libyan Regional Department of the Fund in addressing the former ostrichs. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:56]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies - Lukashuk, Spiwiachuk, Nechiporuk and others - to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the legality and violation of the construction of the Trade and Service Centre "Divide" in the territory of the Roshoshan Rural Council of the Hmelnick district of the Hmelnick district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:34]] For-151 Decision taken. People's Deputies - Ivan Hare, Alexiyuk, Assadchev, Zagreva and others - to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the rule of law in the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine in carrying out financial and economic checks on the NAP "Livivian Airlines". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:08]] For 111 Decision taken. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Tobacco Dmitr, for the implementation of the Nossov region of the Black Sea Gas and Gas Administration of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantee of Social Protection. [[in the part of the discount payment for natural gas use]] I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:48]] For 121 Decision taken. Vladimir Lešchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inappropriate reaction of the authorities of the Prosecutor's Office of the Chernigiv Region to the statements made by Ukrainian citizen of the Assistant Adviser to the People's Deputy of Ukraine Dubina. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:19]] For 101 Decision taken. Bogdan Kostinuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, for the breakup of the government's comprehensive programme of measures for the development and functioning of Ukrainian language, the financial abuse that led to its underfunding and direct damage to the state budget of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:58]] For 128 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failure to implement the decisions of the Kirov court of the city of Kirovgrad by the Automobile Company Reforma. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:28]] For 106 Decision taken. Stepan Cloud to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the verification of violations of the constitutional right of citizens to education related to the issuance of diplomas of an unestablished model. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:07]] For-63 The decision is not taken. All queries made in the specified order have been considered. Dear colleagues, let's move on to performances authorized by factions. I'm asking you to apply for a statement, who hasn't filed yet. In view of the fact that we have been working for half an hour, I would ask for a three - minute routine. Alexander Moroz has the word from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Get ready for Turkey. Out of procedure, please. Is it about the broadcasts? There's a proposal to include a broadcast into the area. Is there a denial? None. Please turn the broadcast on to the area. Please, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u2	Statement by the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine on the government's attitude towards wages and benefits. It is urgent to remind us of how the vast majority of Ukrainians today live. The corrupt president and the government do not want to see genocide taking place outside the windows of their Mercedes against their own people. The Constitution is criminally violated, where 46 articles provide that pensions, other forms of social benefits, and assistance should not be lower than the subsistence minimum. Everything is done for the sake of self - preservation, for it is known that it is easier to keep the hungry in subjection. Then, year after year, the minimum wage, which is the basis for the pension fund, is maintained at 50 percent of the minimum wage. It is also a crime to justify annually to the government the gradual approximation of the minimum wage, pensions and social benefits to the minimum of living, out of state capacity. This distorts the recently adopted law on public social insurance. The calculations show that according to this government practice, pensions will be significantly reduced compared to those of today. Clearly, such a mechanism is designed, not for the poor, but for the rich, even though there is a reckoning for the poor. Such pensions will cost them less money in elections. Under this mechanism, people are forced to work another 10 to 15 years to add a few more copies to their pension. Thus, the authorities’ intention to extend the retirement age to such that pensions are not assigned at all is not what they pay. The authorities' intention to increase the minimum wage in the following year by as much as 14 dollars, in the condition that for one bread the costs increased by a greater sum, they demonstrate the pharisaism and cynicism with which the authorities "take care of the people". Another example of power immorality is the transition from paying off veterans to an address that most people are unable to reach, or to help with address aid. The criminal authorities are ungodly in choosing the poorest people. This is at a time when taxpayers grew 600 million dollars a year and made 14th grade, and we have more tax services than in the United States. And this is at a time when 97 billion dollars are being thrown out on a bushman's adventure in Iraq, when the maintenance of presidential resorts requires more than 90 million, when about 100 million people are at the President's palace. The list can be continued, it shows that there is a complete loss of conscience in power, and I am not talking about losing my mind, for it seems to have been gone. The faction strongly condemns such practices. The Cabinet of Ministers, as the subject of the legislative initiative, should urgently submit proposals to the Supreme Council for a budget for the citizens’ income index, which is lower than the increase in prices for essential items, primarily for all food products. We're also proposing a whole set of proposals, if the government doesn't make them, we're willing to make them. We hope that these proposals will receive the support of all the national MPs. Only under such conditions can the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council consider the Cabinet's draft budget for the following year, and under such conditions only the faction will participate in its consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u3	Alexander Turchinov, from the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u4	Dear National Deputies! In the past few days, the prosecutor’s office has been encouragingly alerted to the discovery of the murder of Igor Aleksanderov. The prosecutor, Piscoon, does not come off the television screens of the state, boasting of his own achievements at work, calls the names of the perpetrators and the perpetrators of the murder. But what I want to ask you is, "Who will be responsible for the loss of life of a citizen of Verduk, whose prosecutor's office justifiably called a murderer, and the Supreme Court has convicted despite the justifiable decision of the local courts?" The Attorney General and the Supreme Court allegedly killed an innocent person. And who now has to find Piscoon or Mallarenko on the bench of the defendants to be responsible for this crime? Who will be responsible for the fact that power institutions and courts have been turned into dungeons for the people? Who will comfort the hearts of parents whose children are behind bars and die in shades without enduring torture? Who will account for the hundreds of innocents who have been crushed by sandstones and painters? For days I had to witness the unprecedented sadism of Shevchenkov’s court of Kiev. The 70-year-old Gennady Timoshenko, who has been held hostage for more than a year by the authorities, was actually led by the penal system to a loss of not only health but also life. The doctors in the courtroom found that he had a stroke, but the judge, without even concealing his phone consultations with Banka and Veznicka, left a dying person in custody. We have become accustomed to factories and the illegal persecution of opposition representatives and their relatives. Today, the authorities want us to get used to public torture and murder right in the courtrooms. The crowd and its surroundings are cloned by courts that are willing to kill innocent people, to mock the law, morals, and elementary humanity. Just to carry out a dirty political order. In recent times, the judiciary has finally lost all independence, and individual cases of objective court decisions are only possible if the judge is consciously prepared to go to the inevitable threat of persecution and repression in order to carry out his duty. The cave trial of the Pecher Court, the frank abuse of law and common sense in the Shevchenkov Court of Kiev, the disgraceful judicial vachanalia around the elections in Mukachev, the demoralization of the Supreme Court -- they're all chains of one chain. Ukrainian courts are preparing for the total falsification of future presidential and parliamentary elections. This is the road by which the native judiciary, with the blessing of Kuchma, Mallarenko, and Piscona, is on its way to the chasm. For a long time, the last obstacle that prevented the current authority from establishing complete lawlessness, ending human rights and democracy in the country was the judicial system. Having failed to withstand the intimidation, blackmail, and persecution of criminal authority, this undeveloped bastion with the coming of his leadership fell down. Today, we do not have an independent, objective judiciary, because the courts in Ukraine, along with the police, the security forces, the prosecutor’s office, are turning into a single system of repression, punishment, I end up, torture, and abuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u5	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u6	I'm done. Honorable National Deputies, the Supreme Council is obliged to intervene immediately and put an end to the judicial system. We have no right to scrupulously observe how the last foundations of our democracy are being destroyed. We propose to hear immediately the report of the Chief Justice of the High Court of Mahlarenko on the progress of judicial reform. And when it turns out that the head of the court is unable to ensure the normal, constitutional work of the courts, we must seek his resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u7	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Dear colleagues, the representative of "Our Ukraine" is now scheduled to perform according to the record. The "Our Ukraine" faction, please note, requires the right to speak to the head of the Sandaku District Council. Since there is such an effort by the Supreme Council, we need to make a decision by voting. May I have your attention, please? I'm just trying not to let the Supreme Council down. Please listen carefully. The decision of the Supreme Council on procedural and organizational matters is taken by a majority of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in addition to the cases provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. I put to the vote the demand of the faction "Our Ukraine" to transfer the right to speak to the head of the Lviv District Council of Mr. Sendak. [[10:39:40]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the word from the faction has Vladimir Yavorowski, please. I'll put it to the vote one last time, about giving my word to Mr. Sendak, the head of the Lviv District Council. Then please don't interrupt the session. [[10:40:19]] For 259. May I have your attention, please? The Head of the Lviv District Council, Mr. Sendak, has the floor. Please, where? Three minutes. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u8	Your Honor, the Honourable Members of the Supreme Council! I am addressing you as the head of the Lviv District Council, as the head of the highest representative body of the region, which is a sign in Ukraine, because it is from Lviv that the process of restoring Ukrainian statehood and democratisation of society began. With deep concern in my heart, I would like to inform you that during the last year, there have been events in Lviv that are completely contrary to the basic principles of democracy and the Constitution of Ukraine. The reason for destabilizing the situation in the region is the State Tax Administration in the Lviv region, led by Sergey Medvedczuk, who uses the public service for the purpose of political pressure and political settlement. Today, for the first time since 1990, Lviv has been under pressure from freedom of speech. This is a cynical persecution by the tax administration of Lviv newspapers, business structures, banks, pressure on advertisers, and censorship is established on Lviv State television. Soon we can expect the removal from office of Director of the State Broadcasting Company, Jaroslav Klimovic, and the appointment of a representative of the SDPU. I think that if that happens, it will cause waves of discontent and protest by most of the region's media circles, public organizations and political parties. Members of the Supreme Council are requested to intervene in the situation of adhering to freedom of speech in Lviv and to help us to stand by the principles of democracy with solidarity. By decision of June 6, 2003, number 171 on the situation in the area of personnel change, the Lviv District Council expressed mistrust to Sergey Medvedchuk. This decision was taken taking into account discussions at previous sessions of the District Council, the issue of the socio-political situation in the Lviv region, and based on the conclusions of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fight against corruption and organized crime. After such a decision was made, there was even greater pressure on members of the Lviv District Council. People who have joined the MPs are threatened with dismissals, falsifications of criminal cases, and even cases of outright intimidation and blackmail. Everything reached its climax after the last session of the Lviv District Council, which took place on September 25, 2003. Some district council deputies, four heads of district government administrations have already been released, regardless of the positive performance of their farm work. [[I'm done.]] I am convinced that these changes have resulted from the extremely unbiased misinformation of the Head of State, including from the mouth of the Head of the State Tax Administration in the Lviv region of Sergio Medvedchuk. Deputies! In expressing his goodwill, the people of Ukraine chose us as their representatives in the authorities to defend their national interests, to defend their national positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u9	Thank you. 30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u10	Dear National Deputies! I ask you to support the Lviv district council. Now, two thirds, yesterday at an extra session of the extracurricular session, have once again expressed distrust, because the pressure is coming, the persecution is coming. If we're with you, and you won't back me up, and I hope for your hope, for you! We need to create a commission of inquiry, we need to vote for the majority in order to investigate what tax administrations do in the Lviv region, where personnel changes take place, that every three months, I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u12	Yesterday, the head of the BSS in the Lviv region, which worked for three months, was changed by the customs chief, who is now in the open air, smuggling into our Ukraine. I'm hoping for you, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u13	Thank you. He's got a word from a faction of political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u14	Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u15	That's it, that's it, that's it. Thank you. That's it, that's it, thank you. You've already thanked me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u16	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm handing you an objective tape of how the session worked, not the one the Medvedchuks give to our President. Please let the deputies of the Ukrainian people see it too. It's a talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u17	Thank you. Gregory Dashutin, please. Gregory Dashutin, a faction of industrialists, entrepreneurs, and "Urrigible Ukraine". Prepare Michael Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The faction of political parties of industrialists, entrepreneurs and Labour Ukraine draws the attention of Ukrainian national deputies to solving a problem that is of great socio-economic importance at the national level to the need to prepare young workers in the vocational and technical education system. Its relevance is determined by several factors. First of all, the steady growth of the economy in recent years, which has increased the needs of workers who have a sufficiently high level of theoretical and practical training and who are able to work under the conditions of modern high-tech production. Secondly, the fact that young people are unskilled in the labour market today is not needed with all the negative social consequences that result from this fact. I will not be far off following examples. Today, in the Sumsk district, enterprises are forced to engage from the villages of former workers who returned to the land, losing their jobs in the city in the 1990s. At the time, the problem of training workers for industry and agriculture was more or less satisfactory in solving the system of vocational and technical education. But today it is in need, and it is in a pitiful state. The material and technology base has collapsed, the level of teaching, in other words, wants to wait for better. On average, the payer does not even reach 200 dollars. The level of computerization of licenses to which former PTUs have been converted does not correspond in any way to the requirements of the day. The former system of basic enterprises has gone into oblivion. There, there. Schools of manufacturing, where future workers were trained to work in this particular enterprise. Today, the number of boys who go to the army is shrinking. And in the old days there, in the army, a large number of young people were also trained. We returned home with a profession of driving, mechanics, and other things. A system of personnel training through DOSAF was also in place. These are also arguments for greater attention to the system of vocational education. What we have here today must be brought into line with the requirements of today. They are driven by the rapid pace of structural shifts in the economy, the aging of knowledge acquired in the process of primary vocational training. The significance and complexity of the problems identified above is so great that it is possible to return to the budget for today, where only 60 million dollars have been set up today, that in no way solves the problems mentioned above. We need to find an opportunity to increase the funding of the vocational and technical education system to bring it out of crisis and to bring it closer to modern standards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u19	Michael Dobkin from the Democratic Initiative Group. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman. The problem of poverty and unemployment has now reached such a size that it has become one of the real threats to Ukraine’s national security. More than half the working population is unable to employ. 70 percent of those in employment earn not more than 200 dollars a month. As a result, between 5 and 7 million Ukrainians work abroad. In fact, a quarter of the working population in Ukraine is working outside of Ukraine. At the same time, none of the regulations governing the means of employment of our citizens abroad provide for the formulation of medical and pension insurance, compensation for injury or loss, and judicial protection of the rights of Ukrainians. Cases of fraud and fraud are common. Current legislation does not limit intermediaries to attracting substantial sums for employment and shipping to another country. It does not protect against the default of these companies. There are no established schemes for State control of employment agencies abroad. Most of them. agencies that recruit Ukrainian sailors to work on foreign courts are using the imperfections of current legislation. They hardly ever notice. the legal protection of a sailor’s interests, or compensation for damage to his health. The monitoring of the Commissioner for Human Rights revealed a significant number of abuses and abuses in the activities of media companies. Thus, in the past two years, 1,654 Ukrainian seamen have been asked to assist in paying wages, compensation for their health and legal aid. The State must take responsibility for ensuring the proper working conditions of these people. Yes, these people are working outside Ukraine, but they left Ukraine not because of the lack of patriotism, but because the Ukrainian state was unable to provide them with a proper working environment in their homeland. Without hindrance, people do hard and exhausting work to ensure the well - being of their families. Labour immigrants also benefit greatly from the Ukrainian economy. After earning money abroad, they bring them to Ukraine and spend on the purchase of Ukrainian goods, thereby developing local production. What steps can the Ukrainian government take to help Ukrainian citizens working abroad? First of all, national legislation on business activities needs to be improved. I think they're doing a tool for the employment of Ukrainian citizens abroad. This subject has already been violated by national deputy Shibk, who has submitted a corresponding bill for consideration by the Supreme Council. It is also necessary to legalize their status by making appropriate agreements with the governments of the countries where the most Ukrainians work. This step will extend the validity of local labour legislation to Ukrainians and thus bring their working conditions into line with national standards and protect them from fraud. I want to make a point, these people don't demand money from the state, they've found a way to earn it themselves. Ukraine, as a legal state, is required only to protect the rights of these citizens, to create the right conditions for their activities, and to protect them from fraud. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u21	The word is given to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek. The next one is Storm.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u22	Dear National Deputies! Dear parents, veterans of war and labor! Thousands gathered in the square under the walls of the Supreme Council, many of whom came, they say, out of their final strength, and millions of their peers with the last hope are listening to us on the radio today. Today, we Communists are drawing the attention of all society to the death threat that has prevailed over the most disadvantaged, the most vulnerable, and now the humiliated and hurtful part of our fellow countrymen. Again and again, we demand that the active authorities give up other criminal acts, the government give up its evil and deceitful intentions of taking away our glorious war veterans and labor, the student and student youth, the womanhood of the legal benefits that they have earned, earned, won all their heroic lives, and most of which were set up for them by the Soviet authorities. Today’s immoral, irresponsible, and criminal authority is blind and deaf to the grief and tears of the common people, and it neither accepts nor wants to accept anything. It is a cruel, barbaric act of abuse against sick, exhausted, and often lonely people. Because the pitiful average size of their pension or state support is only half, or less, the size of their subsistence minimum, and the loss of their benefits is a tangible blow to their poor budget. Retired officials are cynically shameless and are now forcing weak people by means of lies and empty promises, brutal threats and blackmails to write claims of some kind of voluntary rejection of these benefits in exchange for, what is called, targeted assistance. With all that can be accomplished, everyone understands, there will be no benefits, no targeted assistance, but a variety of declines in the standard of living for veterans, pensioners, and disabled persons as well as their families. Dear veterans! We Communists know and always remember that it is you who have created the powerful potential of our country, to which we are all so proud, and who, with so much wolfish zeal, steals from today's provisional rulers and their representatives from this rostrum today cry as if to protect the interests of the people. But we believe that time will come and justice will prevail. We are deeply indignant that before the 60th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine from German-Fashistic invaders in the 13th year of independence of the Ukrainian State, the ruling regime, instead of taking any small measure to ensure the peaceful old age and deserved rest of our veterans, is cynically trying at their expense, which means, by reducing their age, to solve their complicated clan-crime financial problems -- to balance the 2004 budget. Replacing aid to an address aid is part of a policy of genocide against its own people! We Communists have long warned and suggested where money can be found. We have to briefly say, "Not steal, but give to the people what the people deserve and earned." We strongly and unequivocally demand that today's sad grave decrees be lifted by Cabinetman No.253 of March 2nd last year and the Supreme Council of Ukraine of June 19th of this year on the replacement of legal aids for war veterans, pensioners and disabled persons for what is called targeted assistance. We Communist MPs call on our fellow national MPs to apologize to the government and the President of Ukraine for the veterans, pensioners, disabled people, other categories of benefits they use, and to find an opportunity to make their lives any better. These people are our parents and our mothers! These are our older brothers and sisters! And by their lives, theirs, and their blood, they earned years of better fortune at an old age. And don't forget that old age is our tomorrow. From this high national rostrum, I address the people of Ukraine. People are good! We remember the protection of veterans. Their constitutional right to life is our sacred sonly duty to the living and the dead before the coming generations! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u23	The word is Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u24	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear colleagues, on September 25, this year, the walls of the Lviv City and District Council were marked by the usual notion of a political struggle in Ukraine. On this day, the arrival of about 20 national deputies from the "Our Ukraine" bloc brought into the session halls familiar methods of political struggle: the application of psychological pressure, political, ideological intolerance, the demonstration of disrespect for the institutions of power, outright falsehood and silence of facts, cynicism, intimidation, demonstration of power and obstruction, the tactics of forming the enemy's image. Calls and conduct eventually destabilized the situation in Lviv. It's not an accident. This is the result of a long-term company aimed at showing that in Lviv there can only be one point of view, one political position. At times it may seem that some Ukrainian politicians have learned much from former Soviet authorities. In those days alone, the expression of another view was called provocation, crime, or madness. You, the national deputies from the "Our Ukraine" bloc, are opposed to Ukraine's participation in the EP, you are opposed to making changes to the Constitution, you have the right and the right to defend your position not only in Lviv, but in Kharkiv, Donetsk, Zaporozhye, Lugansk, Nikolayev and other cities of Ukraine. The right to speak up. They also have Social Democrats. Yes, we support the idea of Ukraine entering the single economic space provided that the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine are respected.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u25	Allow the National MP to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u26	Ukraine's international agreements and are ready to defend Ukrainian national interests at all stages of its establishment. That is how we support the idea of political reform and do everything we can to ensure that it is implemented in the interests of building a democratic society when the authorities are politically responsible. The United Social Democrats have repeatedly called attention to the consequences of political attacks on Libya. The desire to settle accounts with power and political opponents sows aggression, strife, hatred, intolerance to another opinion, and subterranean anti - Semitic sentiments. Today, we must openly call this ideology our name. It's a new ideology -- it's ours. This definition is not a form of SDPU(o) or journalists, this reaction of people who witnessed those events on September 25 in Lvov, for you, Victor Andryovich, it must seem strange. They have different views from our Ukraine. This is a reality because there is no monopoly on patriotism and the love of Ukraine. The faction of SDPU(o) expresses a strong protest against the repression of political opposition in Lviv and perhaps in all regions of Ukraine. And he claims it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u27	I'm asking for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u28	And claims to be a decisive reprisal for the gross and groundless attacks on the party, on its members. It calls for civilized methods of public political struggle. And at the end of 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u29	Thank you. Come on, don't bother, let him use his time. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u30	Thirty seconds. I want to tell you what a democratic district council in the Lviv region. Last night Mr. Sandak did not state, and there was actually a debate over those people who had their vision of joining the EP and expressing their position. And yesterday in the district, it was a pleasure to remove from the heads of the committees all the people who voted for the only economic space and for their position. This is a Polish democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Calm down. I'm just saying, dear colleagues, let's do it this way. Don't push. I'll explain it to you one more time. I beg of you, dear fellows, I'll explain again. I was putting to the vote an offer that. No, let's get it up. I say again, fellow officers, let's pick up the transcript, don't push, I ask you again, we all went according to the Rules, it was normal. You have the right to speak, sit down. Since you did not like the talk, you can take the floor. Everything else. Honorable colleagues, who from among the factions, from the factions that have not been registered, ask for the floor? You don't? Then we'll finish. Slauta, please. All of it! Calm down. Then you'll have the right to a line, take your seat. Let's follow the Rules, please. Please, dear fellows. The agrarians have a word for it. Please. You'll have the right to speak. So you'll take the word and you'll take the floor. [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask the Secretariat to give a transcript as we put it to the vote. Don't push, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u32	Slata Victor, Donetsk district, faction of Ukraine's Agrarian Party. In recent years, the economic situation in the agro-industrial complex has become more difficult, especially in agriculture. Major decreases in the production of basic products have occurred. In 2002, about 60 percent of the companies were in business. There is also a sharp increase in debt. Most farms are insolvent. The level of wages of agricultural workers is the lowest in all other sectors. Rural social infrastructure continues to decline, narrowing down rural areas, where residents can receive the most needed services at their homes. The scope of housing construction, socio-cultural objects, engineering networks have come to a minimum and for a long time have not even compensated for the physical wearout of the core funds. It is not possible to ensure further dynamic development of the agrarian complex through insufficient public financial support to ensure that the soil is more fertile, regulation of the food market, which is designed to support price conditions, and production of competitive products. The greedy demand that emerged in the current year, you all know, in the internal food market, the uncontrollable rise in food prices due to the lack of funding for their formation and for other subjective reasons was one of the consequences of such an approach to the development of an agro-industrial complex that is of paramount importance in our nation’s economy. It's now on the verge of survival, it's practically exhausted by its potential manufacturing resources. Such discriminatory policies, which the government carries out in relation to the village, cannot continue. The calculations show that the overall need for funding for the APC will amount to 8 billion dollars against 3.8 billion, as foreseen in article 35 of the draft budget. With this coming to the State Budget, the rate of excise duty will increase considerably and may already be 4 billion dollars in 2004, including from VAT-2, higher rates of excise duty - 0.4, changes in the ratio of agricultural enterprises to fixed tax payers - 0.3 billion. We don't know what's proposed for social investment. But the catch that financiers made here is 50 by 50, it won't work, the local budget won't find 50 percent of its funds, and it won't work this year, which is where it's set up. And last but not least, the faction of the tax problems supports those people who are standing on the street. We don't have to do this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u33	Dear colleagues! No, no, no, I'm asking for your attention! Well, how about you! Dear colleagues! Well, there'll be a right to reply, just me. I'm asking you to calm down. Dear colleagues, don't take the rostrum! Do you want to stop the session? Let's stop, no questions. I'm asking the honourable national deputies, especially those factions that have not yet spoken, will there be no more desirous of being authorized by factions? Time's up. In view of the fact that she is unhappy with the grades that were said there, the faction "Our Ukraine" is entitled. Just a minute. One minute on the line, please. All of it. Will you be speaking, Vladimir Alexanderovich with a replica? Please. I'm asking you to follow the Rules. No, no, that's enough, that's enough. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u34	Society, I'm going to read briefly, not all, the statement of the block "Our Ukraine." Respectable fellow countrymen. Today, every thinker in Ukraine understands that a financial and political union called the SDPU, with a small bug at the end, has stolen a system in the Ukrainian state. At first, they stole an attractive name from European politicians, having a bearing on democracy as a donkey to space. And then, by barely stretching his legs over the critical electoral threshold, then they would have to sit in the shadows of the legislature or in the political gallery, and, with the arrogance, the unrighteous billions and the unprincipledness of the guarantor of the Constitution, they privatized all branches of power in Ukraine and the President himself. Ukrainians with bitterness may say that after 12 years of independence, it seems that the movement towards democracy of Ukraine has returned to a single party system, and an anti-Ukrainen anti-democracy clan of short-lived Ukrainians is playing a role. They are the ones responsible for everything that is going on in the country today. And with the arrival of the chief chancellor's office in the Presidential Office, and the co-existence of the leader of the Esdeks, Ukrainian politics has gained a sinister, horrifying color.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u36	Her immorality, administrative insolence, is no longer hidden.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u37	Time's up. Microphone, please! Well, five seconds. Finish it, please. Because he'll be there again. We're only going to be building a relationship.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u38	They zealously imitate the loyalty of only one person in Ukraine to the President. And according to his conduct, he believes in this Pharisee. In fact, they are expelling from Ukraine the remnants of its economic power. In recent months alone, several ministries, the entire western customs border, most district and district administrations, free economic zones, power structures, banks, courts, media outlets, have been captured by this financial union. No party has such an uncontrollable, presumptuous monopoly on the planet!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u39	Vladimir Alexandrovich, thank you. All of it. Thank you, that's all. Microphone. We won't be any more. Yeah, it's a social-democrat replica. And let's get to work. Anything else, dear colleagues, can be found outside the session hall. Please, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u40	The previous talk mentioned a party of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. We have the right to a replica. But for today, "Our Ukraine" with all its parties and blocks is not worth talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, we've been working for an hour on requests, messages and applications, as you know for 25 minutes. Therefore, we have every reason to move on to Tuesday’s consideration of the issues. It is announced for consideration, attention, honourable colleagues, draft laws to amend the Ukrainian law on freedom of conscience and religious organizations, a new edition. And about freedom of religion and religious organizations. Reporters Bondarenko Viktor Dmitrovitch, Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna, and co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Les Stepanovitch Tanjuk. The procedure for dealing with this issue is proposed by a profile committee. Five minutes to report. The answer to the questions is five minutes, report five and five. For a co-rapporteur from the committee, five minutes and the rest of the time that remains to be discussed. Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u42	Julius Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine", the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. If we approach this bill today, these two bills, we will be in grave violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations. There are two alternative bills on this subject. One of them was on the committee and has the findings of the Scientific and Scientific Administration. Another, introduced long before yesterday's Conciliation Board, did not go through the committee and has no scientific expertise. Today, one of the authors, the main author of this alternative bill, Lil Grigorovitch, is on a foreign mission at the request of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So today there is no way to look at these two bills, this is a question of agenda, and we insist that, in accordance with the Rules, it be postponed until an alternative bill is considered on the committee and the conclusions of the Scientific and Scientific Administration are reached. And to allow the author of the bill, Lily Grigorovich, to speak in this room. We insist, I emphasize, that the question be put away.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Indeed, there is such a appeal from the committee. The one that came in yesterday. There's a project coming up on 24.09 by Lilia Grigorovich. At the same time, I would like to remind you that as early as 1907.2002, the committee agreed and gave good news for the consideration of this bill. We have repeatedly come back to this question. Just as the hot support of the committee and the committee head have been, so has the lack of acceptance. We agreed with you that we would be discussing this issue on September 30th. Therefore, we can postpone consideration only in view of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because there is such an insistence. I don't have to, I know everything. Since there is such an insistence, I am voting on the committee's proposal to postpone consideration of the matter. Let him decide the session room. I don't have to, I don't need to, I know the rules. I am voting on the postponement of this matter. [[11:13:25]] For-98 The decision is not taken. Please report to the rostrum. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u44	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Let me brief you on the need to amend the Ukrainian law on freedom of conscience and religious organizations. We have repeatedly discussed this law. More loyally, the bill and worked with its profile committee, with other committees. He was considered at the All - Ukrainian Council of Churches and Religious Organizations. Of course, you all see that the issue is politicized, and the question is one that, obviously, in the near future, we will not find the only way to solve the extremely complex problems associated with the normalization of the activities of religious organizations, the granting of legal status to the Church as a social institution, a number of other issues. So I would like to make an offer today to consider only the questions that are vital to the normal development of the religious environment in Ukraine. First of all, the point is that we should bring together two serious documents that today are essentially the basis of the restorative process -- the return to the religious organizations of their property. There's an appropriate presidential decree, last year, that requires executive authority to return property to religious organizations. In the law, we have a position that requires that we return only the former places of worship. Of course, these two concepts do not match their scope, and, of course, for religious organizations, these changes would have to be accepted in order to provide a restorative process. Similarly, a whole series of articles, some ten articles of this bill, would have to be brought into line with the Constitution of Ukraine. The sole goal is to propose the expansion of the rights of religious organizations. We don't ask any question that somehow complicates the relationship between religious organizations, we don't ask any question that's being debated by religious organizations, let's say one of them is a large religious organization, I have first of all the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, the Kyiv Patriarchate. There are divergent principles. So I would ask you to focus on what is vital today and not to touch what is annoying today, which is not perceived by religious organizations. Although in most cases they are promising, normal questions. In particular, I would like to point out that we are not asking today the question of granting the right of a legal person to religious organizations, to the church as a social institution. Although this is in harmony with the world’s practice. So I'd like to ask you to pay attention to the amendments and additions to the bill that relates to articles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 12, 18, 19, 20, 22, 23, 24, 26th. That's a small amount of material. And this would significantly improve the situation in the religious environment of adopting these changes and additions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u45	Do you have everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u46	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u47	I'd like to ask you a few questions, enroll, your esteemed colleagues, for a question to the reporter. On board, please, the names of the national MPs. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u48	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Please tell us, in conflicts that exist in Ukraine, interfaith conflicts, what role do you play for the local authorities? Because I have a lot of facts when the authorities are inciting these conflicts. And did you, as chairman of the committee, give any appropriate response to interference, to unlawful interference in these interfaith conflicts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u49	If it is not conflicts that carry or have political foundations, the vast majority of conflicts are related to an abnormal material situation in religious organizations. Usually. conflicts are related to the absence of a normal number of places of worship. Today, religious organizations are provided with no more than 75 percent of the typical places of worship. Thus, a change was made to the law in force, which introduced the order of the services. However, this practice has not been followed, and I think that the very ineffective participation of the authorities in this process is because, in any case, interference without the mutual consent of religious organizations never leads to the resolution of these conflicts. We see our main task for today is to make appropriate changes and additions to the Ukrainian Freedom of Conscience Act, which would first enable the President's decree on the return of property to religious organizations, and secondly, to present Ukraine in a normal manner with regard to the claims that have been made in their own time by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in connection with the inappropriate dynamics of the restitution process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u50	Please, Boyko, Yuri Boyko. Next to the Roadrunners.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u51	Please give the floor to national deputy Volodymyr Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u52	Vladimir Yavorowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u53	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine", Jovkowski, Yavorovsk oblasts, Lvivščina. The honourable reporter, from my point of view, after all that religion, the church in the last 20th century, is the only problem is the room. The rest can be very easy to resolve. My question to you is this. So I think I have a proposition here, or are you going to support it? To rename this committee our State in matters of religion to the Committee for the Protection of the Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate. I think that would be appropriate. And I don't see the need to make changes to the law right now. And an outstanding diplomat, a great friend of Ukraine's, a fellow Moscow Patriarchate, said, "If your hands are scratched, you're scratching elsewhere." How do you feel about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u54	I wouldn't want to, Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, there are physiological problems to discuss. I think that the only thing that could be done for the benefit of a case without "hernien", without jokes, is perhaps to really rename a committee, not "in matters of religion," but "in matters of religious organizations." That would be rational.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u55	Please, Drozuntsev Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u56	Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear reporter! I don't understand what you've reported, the new legislation or any amendments that regulate the collegiates between the Presidential decrees and the law in force? That's the first one. Second, will the adoption of the new law stop the conflagration that is taking place in Ukraine with regard to the capture by one religion of other religious buildings, and will the order in this matter be established? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u57	Thank you. I'm willing to report in an article what we've been talking about. I just put together a common background for what I should have done. I don't think the law can solve these problems that you're talking about because it's about the legal culture and even the enforcement of court decisions. There are dozens and even hundreds of unfulfilled court decisions, and I think that the adoption of the amendments that are being proposed today will not have a positive effect on what is going on. It's a matter of legal culture. We often provoke religious organizations to manifest legal nihilism. I can give you a bunch of examples when a board of different levels makes their decisions, which essentially provoke religious organizations to take over places of worship or other actions that are completely incompatible with the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u58	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u59	Thank you. Victor Dmitrovich. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. I'd like to raise a question from my colleague Drogunzov. So I realized that this was about a new edition and a new approach to the treatment of the Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations. How do you feel about it, and I will be, if this law is voted in the first reading, I will make such an amendment so that the preamble of this new edition says of State preferences, or prerogatives, in traditional churches that have made a decisive difference in the formation of a nation: The Ukrainian Orthodox Church, the Ukrainian Greek-Catholic Church, Roman Catholic, orthodox Judaism, Sunism and so on -- so that this is noted in the preamble.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u60	Thank you. This question was repeatedly raised by both national deputies and religious leaders. But I think we'll never have a shared opinion here, because especially Protestant religious organizations, having before them the experience of Russia, Belarus and the other states that have done so, point out that this does not have any legal potential, but is a purely political step, is just such an impressive step. So I think in this room, people who communicate directly with their electorates and your right to make such amendments or not to make them, in principle, will not bear the legal burden.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u61	Yes, thank you. Have a seat. Time's up. Les Stepanovich Tanjuk, head of the committee. Please, Lesa Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, in 1992-1993 we experienced a major crisis in interfaith relations. And the law that is now in force has been passed. The current law on freedom of conscience and religious organizations has been recognized by international experts as one of the most democratic in this field. He arranged these relationships, and we can say that these interfaith conflicts that we had at the time had actually stopped. In general, this legislative act can be regarded as stable for Ukraine’s dynamic legal field, which has led religious life to the rightful path. At the same time, in years of existence, questions arose that needed a legislative settlement. Yes, when Kabmin brought out the new, this last edition of the law made by the State Committee in matters of religion, the project was accepted by religious organizations, such as one that restricts religious freedom. Even after further processing, he caused concern for the leaders of almost all, the most Christian churches in Ukraine, which were included in numerous letters, and several thousand of them, in the name of the Head of the Supreme Council and his deputies, the Prime Minister and the President. 67 of the 75 virtually existing denominations in Ukraine protest against the adoption of this law. This concern has increased further against the provision of European integration committees to Parliamentary Assembly documents to the Council of Europe. Some standards of the new edition, article 18-20, that regulate property issues, are not in line with the new Ukrainian Civil Code, which takes effect on January 1st of the following year. The draft law on the legal solution of the issue of the return of church property, article 18, does not correspond to the conclusion no. 190, 1995 and recommendation No. 1556 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. There's also a negative conclusion from the Ministry of Justice on this account. The bill complicates the mechanism for acquiring a religious organization of legal personality, article 15. Discussing the relevance of the existence of a special State body in matters of religion is expanding disproportionately its authority of the local executive authorities. This expansion of powers, especially before the elections, is a source of concern to church representatives that these powers can be used in different areas to increase the influence of public authorities on religious organizations. And the proposed removal of standards from the current legislation on the prohibition of religious organizations from participating in and supporting political parties, of candidates to state authorities, of agitation, of funding electoral campaigns, and of the ban on the State from financing the activities of such organizations created by religious attitudes, has involved our religious organizations in a pre-election struggle. [[Article 6]] This is a very short electoral run, and we'll be back in 1993-1994 when these explosions begin. This was what was emphasized by the deputies at the joint meeting of the Committees on Culture and Spirituality, on human rights, on national minorities, on international relations. There is such a letter, signed by the heads of the three committees, sent to Mr. Lithuania. This is the first case in the history of our Supreme Council, so that a letter from the heads of the three committees of the Supreme Council may not be answered, and yet the law may be passed. It is noteworthy that not all necessary changes have been made by the Dercomite in religious matters in this project. The relationship between the Church and the State with the protection of monuments, history, architecture, social affairs, and health needs to be regulated. It seems correct that the leaders of almost all the largest Christian churches in Ukraine are told in a letter to Mr. Lithuania that before the adoption of the new law, the conceptual principles of state-church relations must be worked out, and only on the basis of these principles is it appropriate to adopt a new regulation. The State Committee created a group, commissioned the Razumkov Center, other organizations to create such a concept, and then write the law, but did the opposite: the concept is not yet in the pocket, and the law is already in the pocket. The committee was approached by the national deputy, Grigorovitch, in protest against Tuesday’s September 30th Freedom of Conscience Act. [[new editor]] In her view, the hasty consideration of the bill made it impossible to consider simultaneously the draft law on freedom of worship, which violates article 6.5. [[Registration number 4185]] 3 The Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine The MPs are not familiar with this law. Grigorovich reported that she was sent to headquarters, and today she cannot defend her rights here. This is discrimination. Therefore, the committee insists, of course, that there has been no violation of the Rules. And the last. In this regard, the adoption of this law is under constant pressure by the committee. Drang for stenographers, storms and pressure from power and somehow our Communist faction, which suddenly became very pious, which I'm very happy about, if that's true. But let us listen to the President of Ukraine on this subject. The president in the News for the 11th number says “Do you know how Orthodox religion differs from Catholic religion, what is the main sign of Catholic festivals, and what is the case with Orthodox people? There is Christmas, Christ is born, and we have the Passover, Christ is resurrected. We have in Ukraine to understand you, we have to die first." I think the President may be right in the sense of the incomprehensibility of our community, but our churches have been resurrected after 70 years of totalitarianism, not to be used in political "controversies". Let us be wise! We are the Supreme Council, and we understand how this will turn out. You don't have to wear pants on your head, 'cause something's going to be different. Let's take care of Ukraine! Let us not resort to the ungodly in this case to violate the Rules today. Remember, there is the word “sorm. ” Today it is a shameful thing to do. We adopt the law without listening to the second MP. That's why my committee insists. our committee to cancel this consideration, or consider it to be one that has not happened. You don't have to make a nail for your own crucifixion. We are the Supreme Council!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u63	Thank you. Question, please, to the reporter. Any questions? Please sign up. That's right. Regarding the Rules, I would like to say that first, to talk about the Rules, Les Stepanovich, we need to read it and then talk about the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u64	The Rules suggest discussing two laws, if any. We're not discussing the Grigorovich law today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u65	Les Stepanovich, is the Supreme Council's decision, is your committee's decision to take a stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u66	You were obliged to inform the Supreme Council that the Rules required a discussion of two laws. You didn't do it. You broke the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u67	Les Stepanovich, the voice doesn't mean it's right. So let's stick to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u68	Well, you broke the rules, I'll explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u69	Les Stepanovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u70	I'm telling you again that the Rules have been violated by the fact that Lily Grigorovich is not in the rostrum today, and she's not defending her rights. You're discrediting the deputy from "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u71	Les Stepanovich, don't yell, I say again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u72	I'm not yelling, I'm just explaining to you that you haven't understood for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u73	I understand everything. Do not confuse the law with politics. That's it. Please point it out on the board. You protect first, and then you say you can't look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u74	We protect the law until it has a legal problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u75	Oh, dear, the People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u76	Dear Leonid Stepanovich, you said quite correctly that everything must be weighed. And that's why I agree that emotion is too much. However, please tell us today that there are a number of religious organizations, concessions that oppose the approaches proposed by this bill. Would it not be possible to agree with their views, to their assessment, with their conceptual vision of the law, that we would actually stand on the other side, and we would get, on the other hand, feedbacks, protests, statements that would eventually come out again in some kind of emotion, in some, so to speak, claims, scandals, all the more so in a sensitive area of which religion is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u77	I'd like you to understand me correctly. 67 religions v. 15 deny the law in the way it is, it's a large majority. But they're not denying the whole law, they're denying only the five points that violate the rights of the community. They deny the problem of the new registration of the church as such. The State is not a legal person today, and the church is not a legal person. The organs of the State are legal persons, the bodies of the church are legal persons. It's okay. But if a certain church becomes a legal person, it can go to court against another church. Property conflicts may arise. So this point would have to be deleted. We are talking about the need to delete five points here. And if they go to second reading, it'll be okay, we'll bring this law down if we take it out of the discussion today. We need to get him back to Kabmin, remove these five points that violate all conventions and the Constitution. Well, notice, article 22 of the Constitution gives the right to property of a citizen. Here the citizen’s rights are taken away and the organization is entitled to his property. So this has to be reconciled. I don't want conflicts, I want these five points deleted, and then we can normally discuss both laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u78	Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u79	Dear reporter! First of all, I would like to state that the entire faction of the Julia Tymoshenko bloc is determined against in general violating the very principles laid down in this bill, which is against it being put out in the session room right now, and the main thing is to vote against it being accepted in the first reading and passed, as a minimum, at the first. This is a minimum, and it is better to remove it from consideration at all. But please tell the people's deputies and radio audiences, property matters, we'll get a clear bill here in principle that will take property, that is, the church to the citizens, and pass it on to the organization. Who wins, and who loses? Just explain. I very much ask that this concept be understood and less politicized. Because it's not about the preferences that the Moscow Patriarchate makes, it's about how all of these are dealt with here. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u80	There is an error in the presidential decree to determine the assets. Our old law had a restorative right to return to the churches of religious religious buildings. The presidential decree is broader: not a return, but a transfer to church communities of property. This means that not only buildings, but many other buildings, all conflicting ones, may not return to communities, not restitution, but surrender. This allows organs to be handed over to — to whom I love — so I don’t pass it on to whom I don’t love. Whoever he wants, not who he belongs to. That's right. And that was a mistake in the presidential decree. She jumped over here. It allows local authorities to control this church during elections. We'll give you your property, but you'll vote for us. That's what we're against. These possessions need to be severely normalized, for we will be back to the 1992 level.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u81	Anisim, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u82	Thank you. Please pass the word to your colleague Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u83	Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u84	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Mr. Lesu, the draft Constitution of the European Union is currently being discussed in the European Community. Do you know of the Roman throne’s proposals for bearing witness to the place of Christianity, first and foremost, to Catholicism in this Constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u85	We know. But the whole point is that this is not the prerogative of the proposed law. The law does not distinguish large churches or small churches. Our law was therefore approved in Europe that it was not as monopolies as it was in our older brothers, a law that gave freedom only to one church, and all the other, and the Jewish communities, and the Catholic and Muslim communities, all opposed this law. That's why we want this to be a democratic law, so that it will allow all religions to happen except those who violate the law. Except for those sects that aren't allowed to register.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u86	Yes, thank you, time's up. Please explain to the board the members of the national committee who have signed up for the discussion. Yes, we have 10 minutes to discuss. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Ivan Mihovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u87	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Absolutely agree with those who say that a very serious issue is being considered today. But I can't understand how a serious question can be considered when an alternative 4,185 was only received today, September 30th. How could that be? I don't think so, Vladimir Mikhailovich. As for the bill that's being discussed, and which today, in fact, only one bill was being discussed, I should say that he has serious flaws. The flaws, despite the observations made by both the Scientific and Expert Administration, and here we need to be clear, because constitutional norms are the norm of direct action, there is no need to repeat them in the bill. There is no need for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine the principles of State policy regarding religion and the church, this is article 6 of the bill. Also, what may be the State’s policy regarding religions and churches if a separate church is separate from the State under the Constitution? I believe that in this bill, the government, which has been finalized and signed by Dmitri Tobacco, has been sent to us for some reason, not by the heads of government, but by the Deputy Prime Minister, there are again problems, problems related to the acquisition of religious organizations of the legal personality. There are two orders here for whites and black registrations. So I'd like them to pay attention. I can't understand why we should actually increase the position of a special state body in matters of religion, I just can't understand why we should expand the authority of executives and local self-government in places in this regard. I think that the workers of the Christian churches of Ukraine who protest these positions are absolutely right. At the same time, I believe that the position on the relationship between school and church, which has been made in this bill, is positive. Together, when I analyze and make a general conclusion on the adoption of this bill, I think it needs very substantial work. If it is accepted in the first reading, with a very substantial development that would ensure peace and harmony in society, not, on the contrary, discord among religions. We are an Orthodox state, and let them care for their religions in Turkey or elsewhere. Our Orthodox religion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u88	Yes, Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u89	Ivan Mihovich, Company faction, Human Rights Committee, Carpathians. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, fellow MPs, voters. Today's government bill is relevant and at the same time complex because it touches on different, sometimes conflicting interests in a world-wide pluralistic polyfaith society. Hence, he provokes opposition from interested forces. This is evidenced by delays over the years with its consideration, the hasty introduction today of an alternative that is considered unacceptable. There are no flaws, and there is no government. Yes, the first article gives a narrow interpretation of freedom of speech. Many of the following articles clearly follow the religious and apologetic context. What's more, some of these norms create legal preconditions for bringing schools and churches closer together, other clerical insights that are rightly reflected in the conclusion of the Scientific and Scientific Administration. bourgeoisie fought long and hard to separate the church from the state and school from the church. Our government does the opposite. The involvement of priests in State ceremonies, the introduction of religious instruction for children, the expansion of the ecclesiastical functions and a number of other articles of the bill have nothing to do with civilized secular civil society. Next. The bill in its present form will not stop the ongoing expansion of foreign powers covered by religious records. Weischnavets, supporters, the Chaitani mission, the movements of Santman, the Tantrians, the Vedics, the followers of the Toolan, the White Brotherhood, the Seinthology and other recent movements have taken over tens of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians today. What's going to happen tomorrow? And what they're actually carrying is the Canonic Orthodoxy, other traditional beliefs need protection, not an image and attack of the type: bandits in the crowds, foreign agencies, the Soviet Empire's rudimentary, criminal, narcotic control, anti-government vandalists, and these are just some of the epithets in which the small-scale movement newspaper of Uzhgorod has granted the distinguished Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate. For some reason, however, the newspaper and the forces it produces do not give the same attention to the overseas missionaries, uninvited guests. Unfortunately, the bill does not guarantee freedom of thought to nonreligious atheists — about 40 percent of our population. Today, it has not become prestigious or even dangerous to be a freethinker, an agnostic, or simply an unbeliever. In fact, under the slogan of freedom in Ukraine there is a redesignation of society, a forced establishment of religions. So let's be honest and honest, not exaggerate the role of this factor, not abuse its potential and its functions. On Zacarpatha, for example, in the last 10 years, the number of church buildings has doubled. For every thousand people, we have a minister, a temple, and so on. What less crime, immorality, and others have become? Yes, the church suppresses partly the social pain of believers, distracts them from real causes, feeds on illusions for a better future. Is that not why the greedy rich and the powerful so zealous and clumsyly beat their worship, set up candles, make a form of prayer to various Gods, and actually abuse true religion? In one document, it's hard to predict everything. We have the possibility of including some issues, issues, particularly property, in other codes, in other legal acts. Finally, I propose to base and support the first reading of the government bill, and the authors of the alternative and other national deputies will be able to make their proposals in preparation for the second reading. And finally, about the meetings of the so-called three committees. It really happened on September 19. Questions were discussed, but no decisions were made. Therefore, it is not appropriate or proper to refer to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u90	Vladimir Puzakov, a faction of Communists, prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u91	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The difficult religious situation in the country requires the building of an effective mechanism for relations between the State and the religious complex. Whether we obey this law or not, Vladimir Mikhailovich was right, the situation will not go well. So I propose with all seriousness to discuss and make appropriate changes, and additions to the law that today is about. Today, there is a steady trend in the country towards the formation of so - called regional legislation on religious organizations. Individual local authorities often take a prejudiced position and extend certain churches or religious organizations, violating the rights of other religious associations, such as in the area of the registration of religious communities or the alteration of land allocations for construction, religious buildings, the issue of taxes in part of local taxes, and so forth. The rate of return to churches and religious organizations of religious buildings has slowed. Conflicting potential preserves property issues. Today, this position is unfavorable, in effect unacceptable to the internal religion, which requires a hierarchically structured structure and an appropriate organization of religious activity. It's about the Orthodox Catholic Church and the Greek Catholic Church. The law treats these churches as a union of religious organizations and does not recognize them as legal persons. Thus, the church’s internal instructions are ignored, and they certainly have a negative impact on their shepherding and charity, since it complicates the internal church administration. Nothing prevents Ukraine from introducing legal recognition of churches as comprehensive internally structured institutions, from building relations on the basis of general contracts, and from establishing appropriate rights, mutual responsibilities, and mutual responsibility. A similar introduction would put traditional and hierarchical churches in an equivalent position compared to those religious organizations that do not have a hierarchical structure, allowing them to participate in cooperation and interaction with the State on the basis of an equal partnership. In summary, it should be noted that the current legislative mechanisms in Ukraine, the regulation of State-Church relations and the functioning of religious organizations in general do not correspond to the complex political situation in Ukraine and need to be reconsidered to take into account the realities of social and religious life of the country over the past ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u92	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Get ready for Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, within 12 hours we will complete our consideration of the matter and announce a recess then.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u93	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, in the bourgeois Parliament, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we are considering a bourgeois project on the attitude and location of religious organizations in Ukraine's social life. So you don't have to put on people's faces like a democratic mascot and loudly talk about human rights and so on. Each bill is followed by certain interested forces -- political, social and social movements. So I think it's useful to remind you that in Europe now, where our fifth European continent is trying so hard to integrate, a bill of the Constitution of the European Union is being worked on and considered. Today, according to the Pope's throne, it is proposed to write in the draft Constitution on the special role of Christianity in the spiritual and cultural life of the European community. What Christianity, that is, Catholicism and Protestantism. And every nation that comes into the embrace of this spiritual and cultural community has to change its spiritual and cultural stereotypes and betray its spiritual and cultural traditions. So I would like to propose this very situation. It is known that Eastern Christianity, regardless of who cares for it, is the parental faith of our people. And if we think about how the Cossacks of Nikola Vasilovich Gogol "Taras Bulba" fought for the Orthodox faith, the Russian land and the Cossack Society -- that's how we should follow the traditions of our people. And so the government bill, at least in part, takes into account all the grief of our people and their love for the parental faith and the parental church. I'm an unbeliever, but I support a government bill with both my hands, even a bourgeois one, because it at least partially takes into account what our people want from the Supreme Council. On behalf of our faction, I propose to support the government bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u94	Please, Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u95	Our Ukraine faction, Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters who still listen to us! To all the troubles that Ukraine has today -- economic, political, social -- has long been involved in another disaster -- is a huge upheaval in a very thin, delicate sphere -- the sphere of the human soul, the sphere of faith. We, the Orthodox State today, unfortunately, have a few branches sometimes hostile to one another, the Orthodox Church, and the Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate, and the Church of the Moscow Patriarchate. In addition, we have a patriotic, recently repressed, Ukrainian, and I emphasize this, faith is Greek-Catholic, which has a large territory in Western Ukraine. Of course, today we need to be very careful, very careful, in this world, in the world of faith, in the spiritual world in order not to ruin anything. I'm saying this because maybe this is my most important position. We're in so much pain, and I, including, have adopted at the beginning of our Ukrainian independence the law that works today, and which has helped to achieve something, let alone relative, but still stable. I was talking to the head of the committee, the main problem that is, is the problem with the premises. But she also quietly decides: Churches are being built, people are getting together, people are getting different. I think that's a question to be settled. Because of this principle, I simply ask all honest MPs who do not want to speculate on a certain political situation, we today would be wise not to touch this sphere, nor in any case touch it. That's more than we're offered a government law. Well, tell me, my dear colleagues, how would each of you have done it if there was a bill introducing a national MP, entitled to a legislative initiative, and there was a bill introducing a government? The wisest thing is to take these two bills, see what's good about one thing, what's good about another, and make something of them. That's why today we're going straight to, as it were, a tribute, and we're going to have huge nonsense if we're going to accept with you today this bill that exists. I just want to say. As a Ukrainian, I am in pain and pain at what is happening today in Kiev-Pecher Lavre. You may know that castles are being broken, where our greatest national rarity and our greatest national values are closed. You realize that Kiev-Pecher Lavre is not as much an object today as it is a spiritual institution of the neighbouring state. These are all the realities we need to talk about. Because of that, dear fellows, I think that whoever believes in the Lord God, God's hand will overshadow him at the moment that he will vote this law, and you are not pro-ho-lo-su-e! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u96	Yes, thank you. The last one. Ah, Eugene Gorenik, right? Please. Tomenko's gone. A miner. The last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u97	Eugene Hoornik, Valley Electoral District No.89, faction of our Ukraine. Deputies! In relations with the State and the Church, there is a fundamental principle: Caesar Caesar’s, God’s God. And with regard to this bill, I think it's this position from the 67 denominations that Les Tanjuk was talking about that it is determined that the basis of this bill is a violation of this principle and that it is possible for Caesar himself to determine for his people the right to choose the religion or the God who wants Caesar. And one thing is that this bill needs to be treated very carefully. What is more, there is actually a bill by Deputy Grigorovitch on freedom of religion and religious organizations. Even a passing reading of it tells us that it has a much softer position than the bill proposed by the government. Colleague Solomatin spoke of some kind of threat to the papal throne as regards the Christian principles of Europe. Well, let us be clear, modern civilization has indeed reached such a level, for it was based on Christian values, both Catholic and Orthodox, as well as Protestant. And it seems strange, therefore, that once the Constitution recognized its responsibility to God, in this bill the government once again stressed the State’s distinction from the Church and the school from religion. Well, in practice, yes, our high officials are always trying to show their closeness to certain religions. As far as school is concerned. Indeed, optional education is possible for public schools. But why is it that this right is not for the optional teaching of religion to be deprived of private schools, why are religious organizations deprived of the right to engage in the teaching work? These and other examples show that the bill passed on to us is imperfect. Given the presence of a parallel bill, I would say a more perfect alternative bill. I propose that this bill be rejected and that another bill be drafted on the basis of what has been submitted and on the basis of a project submitted by Deputy Grigorovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, time is up, 12 o'clock. All of it. What's the line? Please, one minute, a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u99	I thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, for being able to say a few words of this law to my colleagues. Dear colleagues, some want to put such a problem that the problems that exist around this law are problems between the Moscow Patriarchate, the Kyiv Patriarchate, among the leading religions, which are, say, complex relationships between themselves. Dear friends, when you read this law carefully, you will see that this is not the case at all. Other problems give us the opportunity to vote for this bill today. That's right. First. This bill foresees administrative pressure, strengthening administrative control over all religious religions. That is to say, there is a complication of the registration of confessions, there is the possibility for the official to initiate the closure of a religion that he does not think he will perform the tasks that he will put before it. I mean, my fellow Members, I would like to remind you that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has asked Ukraine to simplify the registration procedure. We do everything, as always, on the contrary. The second problem is very serious, dear friends. This is a problem with the lack of economic justification for the proposals contained in the law. That is, the return of property to the churches. I support the idea of restitution of church property. But, dear colleagues, no economic justification as to how much the budget will cost to recover this property. And last but not least, Vladimir Mikhailovich, a very important question, is the demand for church politicization, i.e., the law has eliminated positions that have forbidden churches to participate in election companies, to raise MPs. And actively acquiesce for any political power. I mean, dear friends, what's going on? On the eve of elections, religious denominations want to mobilize in administrative resources. That's what I'm asking you to do, Your Honor, and not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed, we will make decisions taking into account discussions, positions polarly opposite. Obviously, we will need to continue to work on reconciliation. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u101	We're continuing our work. A draft law on Ukrainian diplomatic and service passports is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Green Igor Alexiyovich. Do you have Igor Alexiyovich? Please. Dear colleagues, the committee proposes the following rules: 3 minutes for the report, 3 minutes for the answers to questions and then. If it takes more than that, I'm a fellow officer, then I'm a co-report for three minutes and three for a discussion, and I'm reading what the committee is proposing, and five minutes for a discussion. Let's do as much as you need, by five, by five. Please ask 5 questions later. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u102	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. Today's issue is in the form, issuance, storage, return and destruction of diplomatic and service passports, a list of persons who have the right to obtain Ukrainian diplomatic and service passports, as well as a mechanism to monitor compliance with the established order, is determined by the following legal acts. This is the President’s decree on diplomatic and official passport of 26 February 1998, Presidential decree of 27 November 1998, as well as part of the Ukrainian law on the order of departure from Ukraine and entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian citizens since 21 January 1994, through expulsion. The adoption of the Law on Diplomatic and Service Passports has two components. First of all, it is necessary to codify individual sub-legislative acts that regulate the specified subject matter, to give active law to the force of the law. Secondly, the need for a substantial clarification of the circle of persons who are entitled to obtain diplomatic and service passports to remedy the existing situation, which undermines the concept of Ukraine's diplomatic passport. European legal practice has been instrumental in regulating the issue of diplomatic and service passports by law itself. The only European country in which, as in Ukraine, the basic normative document on this issue is the Presidential Decree is Finland. I am convinced that, in the light of the changes that have been initiated before the Constitution, the bill that I am presenting should be primarily supported by the initiators of such constitutional changes, because we also propose to release the President from his own functions, regulating the very rule of law for the functioning of diplomatic and service passports. In all countries, members and candidates for EU accession, the basic document in this area is the law itself. Yes, in Austria, Poland, Germany, Italy, the issue of diplomatic passports is regulated by the general passport law, in Lithuania by the law on diplomatic service, in the Russian Federation by the law on the order of entry from the Russian Federation and entry into the Russian Federation. However, this method of settlement is not very convenient, since the issue of the state’s entry and issue of diplomatic passports are of a somewhat different nature, which is subject to legislative regulation. And that's why a similar way of settling diplomatic and service passport issues is not typical of European practice. Instead, two candidate countries -- Latvia and Romania -- have recently passed separate laws corresponding to diplomatic passports and diplomatic and service passports. With regard to the very contents of the bill, it is very principled, in the view of the authors, that there is a question of the substantial clarification of the circle of persons who are entitled to obtain diplomatic and service passports. As evidenced by the analysis of the legislation of European countries in Ukraine, many categories are included in this circle, the status of which does not fall under the European criteria of the right to hold diplomatic and service passports, which leads to the destruction of the concept of "diplomatic passport of Ukraine" and the emergence of misunderstandings in the conclusion of bilateral agreements on visa-free regimes for persons with diplomatic passports. Today, there are people in Ukraine. who are entitled to a diplomatic passport several times larger than in civilized countries. In particular, the draft law prohibits the receipt of diplomatic passports for the heads and members of state delegations and delegations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at international conferences and negotiations in accordance with the actions of the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of the Ukraine on the creation of such delegations, if these acts provide for the issuance of diplomatic passports to such persons of Ukraine, the heads of district councils, the heads of district administrations, the relevant officials of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and certain other categories of persons whose status does not require diplomatic passports. A thorough examination is also made regarding the circle of persons who have the right to own a business passport. These individuals are filled with persons who are deprived of their right to hold diplomatic passports in comparison with the decree in force. The project also details how diplomatic passports are stored by Ukrainian national deputies. Considering that the President's decree on the permanent retention of diplomatic passports of Ukrainian national deputies to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine is not fully implemented, this requirement is not foreseen in the draft law. Thus, this law, first of all, codifies by codifying the power of law to the rules governing the full range of issues relating to the processing, issuance, storage, return and destruction of diplomatic and service passports, specifies, in accordance with European standards, persons entitled to hold diplomatic and service passports, the third is to bring Ukraine's legal field closer to the standards of legislation of member countries and candidate countries to join the EES. I pay particular attention to the fact that the draft law on diplomatic and service passports takes into account the large number of wishes expressed by experts in the Passport Department of the Consular Service Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. The bill is recommended to support both the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on European Integration of the Supreme Council. The scientific expertise of the Supreme Council has also been approved, and the right comments and suggestions to improve the content of the bill can be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. Thank you for your attention and I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to ask the reporter. Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich, will you not ask your question? All right, until Yuri Anatolyovich arrives, Yavorowski, please. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Well, by the time you get there, Vladimir Yavorowski, please. Put your name on the board. And now, one minute, Anisim, a faction of Communists. I've already looked at the performance. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u104	Anisim, a faction of Communists. I give the word to Yuri Solomatin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u105	Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u106	Dear reporter! Please tell me how this round and round with diplomatic passports, foreign passports and others can be overcome in our relationship with our closest neighbours, Russia and Belarus. How will this bill contribute to further processing of documents related to the creation of a single economic space? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u107	Thank you for asking. Directly to the sole economic space of the bill has nothing to do with it. It regulates Ukraine's internal issues on the order of issue, storage and destruction of diplomatic passports. And it regulates, once again, just around the people to whom it's given. This law has no bearing on the nature of binary or multilateral relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u108	National MP Pisarczuk, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u109	Please pass the word to your colleague Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u110	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. I have a specific question. Igor Alexiyovich, I'm just asking you, don't be mad at me: it's so conceptual, but I have to understand for myself. You see, there are two normative documents that you said were the President's decree and the Cabinet of Ministers' decree. More than half of your bill, well, it's actually been duplicated by the President of Ukraine since 1998. Briefly but understandablely, what is required by the adoption of a separate law regarding this field of activity of our State? Well, for example, if we're not satisfied with the decree, if we're not satisfied with the Cabinet of Ministers, if you're making any changes, if you're making any changes, is that the bill? In order to determine when to vote, please, what is the conceptual need for the formulation and adoption of such a separate law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u111	Thank you. Comrade Suhi, I'm not taking offense. On the contrary, thank you for asking. I'd like to emphasize again. First. In practice, such matters are regulated by law in all countries. If we are a parliament, if we respect ourselves, we must close this white spot. Issues that were not regulated by legislation, the President issued decrees because it was urgent. Now we have to restore the status quo. That's the first one. Secondly, I would like to quote a special rule of the President's decree, which was a rather long quote on the list of people who are issued passports. This list of individuals is being reduced in this bill. Moreover, he is sufficiently conceptually regulating the list of persons who have the right to use these passports. Note simply that it will be enough to be a member of the official delegation, and in recent times, many people have been accompanied by official delegations of officials and have a formal right to obtain a diplomatic passport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u112	Bogdan Costinjuk. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u113	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine." Bogdan Kostinjuk. Dear Igor Alexiyovich, on the other hand, the Constitution of Ukraine does not refer to the powers of the Supreme Council to determine the procedures for the identification and issuance of passports, those passports. How you feel about this problem is one question. What's the difference between these passports, between diplomatic passports and service passports, is, for example, I don't see any difference between these passports. And thirdly, we have a whole variety of passport states: diplomatic, official, foreign, internal. There is no European state. Do you not think that this problem should be taken into account in general, such a general law on the passport system as your opinion of this attraction?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u114	Thank you. Here are a few questions, I'll try to start answering them. First. That the Constitution does not state that this is the mandate of the Supreme Council, it states that the Supreme Council is the only body that adopts laws. This time. It's different. As for the fact that we have quite a lot of passports, and that we are such a unique country. That's not exactly accurate information, because this is the order of most countries in Europe. This is the second question of diplomatic passports. And in many countries there is such an institution as a business passport. That's the second question, the second answer. I don't see any contradiction here with canceling, for example, a business passport right now. It is anchored in many covenants, such as the visa - free entry. And that's the order we're proposing to keep. The difference is defined in his status, including that fixed, as I said, in interstate agreements. For example, with some countries, we have a visa-free diplomatic passport, and in some countries we have both diplomatic and official.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u115	Thank you. Time's up. Igor Alexiyovich will be right with you, and. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u116	I'm hoping for backup.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u117	What are we moving on to? Is there a foreign ministry? Please Deputy Minister Alexander Fedorovich. I think it's out of place. The Ministry's position, please tell us about this project, is supported or not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u118	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in principle, supports the proposal for the adoption of this law. Although today the situation is regulated by the President's decree and the Supreme Council's decree. But it has been said that the practice of the vast majority of nations is on the path of a legislative settlement. At the same time, we have a number of observations, about ten of them, before this draft law, which we think should be adopted with the law being. that the law properly regulates the issue of diplomatic passports. We will then transmit our comments to the second reading. And we would also suggest that we set up a working group from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and maybe a committee in foreign affairs to make these comments that we have to process and put them into the project. [[And they're about a dozen.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u119	Thank you. I think this is how we need to work so that your amendments are consistent with the committee and are materialized as proposals by the Ukrainian people's deputies, otherwise it will be difficult for us to find consensus and agree on our interests. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. 15 minutes to talk. May I have that in mind, 15 minutes. Prepare Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u120	Yuri Carmazin, Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The first question is whether there is a need to adopt such a law. I'm going to say yes, I am. Because today's issue of diplomatic passports and service passports is regulated by the President's decrees is absolutely nonsense in terms of our Constitution and our right. And that hole should've been buried long ago. Another question is, how much does the bill that was reported today look like a law at all? I apologize to the authors, that's a very good idea, but you have to make it a little bit more like the law, not the instruction. Chapters, such as articles that appear in one sentence. For example, article 19. "For issuing Ukraine's official passport, the State Customs and Consular Assembly cannot handle it." Why isn't he coping? What about the constitutional requirement for equality of citizens? What, does this passport seem to the most underpaid citizens? No, it's not. Both the MPs, both the President and the ministers, and everyone else who has a business passport, can pay for it. So let's not write things like that down here. Among the individuals assigned to diplomatic service in Ukraine are clearly defined both by Ukraine's international law and by international conventions: the Vienna Convention on the Law of International Treaties, by acts of national law, by the Law on Diplomatic Service, and by the status of Ukraine's national deputy. It would be desirable for us to have a law about the President. Because the President is, and the President's Act is stuck with this law. By the way, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'd like you to enforce this law, and perhaps you will answer us, but what about the People's Choice faction. Here I look, there are people sitting, good people very, I respect them. Is it a faction or not? Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and by law to the President. Because we're writing to the President that it seems that if he doesn't have an impeachment and so on, all the time. I have doubts about article 8 of the bill, where diplomatic passports are issued to wives, husbands, children who have not been fulfilled, other members of the family of diplomatic workers who are serving abroad. It seems to me that this category of persons would have to be transferred to article 15, which is provided by official, stressive, business passports rather than diplomatic passports. In general, it is of great interest that the distribution of diplomatic passports by entities narrows down. And that's what makes me happy. At least fewer people will be able to freely export valuables from the state without being declared. At the same time, the control established by national deputies, in this law, in the draft law and in article 5: passports appear in the Supreme Council is absolutely such that they violate the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy. This control has to be removed. The passport shall be issued to the national representative for a period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u121	I think that's a very good last offer because it regulates the activities of the Supreme Council, all other branches of government don't apply. I totally agree with you here. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine" faction. Boris Bespaly will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u122	Vladimir Yavorowski, Lvivščina, Zovkla, Yavorov, Our Ukraine. This law is pleasant to speak of, and it gives rise to a completely calm, normal emotion. The world’s practice of lawmaking is very simple and understandable. I think we should use it in Ukraine too. There's a bill that's been passed, it's been tracking holes where it doesn't work, it doesn't work, it's being circumvented, and then these holes are being covered up step by step. We had a bill, a presidential decree was issued, there was a presidential decree, there was an order from the Cabinet of Ministers, they did their work, and I think that the time came when we should have a situation regulated by the highest legislative act is the law itself, especially since you and I live with you in a state that in the 20th century, a large number of people, was completely without passports, and because of this attitude to passports special. I don't think we're going to hide anything that's been done in this time of year to get diplomatic, and most of all, it's official passports. As far as I know. It's kind of even business. And official passports have those that have no bearing on the government service in Ukraine. Because of this effort by Igor Greeniv to put it all within the legislative framework, it's very normal. I, having this opportunity and standing here on this stand and knowing that someone is listening to us, I would just like to do it again. I've already written a few parliamentary queries to the former Minister of Internal Affairs and I'm going to address today: finally solve this problem of issuing ordinary foreign passports for our citizens. Literally from day to day, Poland introduces a visa regime: huge queues, people occupy, as they used to be, in ancient times, so there are queues for deficits, recorded to get these passports. I write questions, they tell me it's okay, it's gonna be resolved. But the question still remained. I'm just asking for a new minister who's so taken up today, it means, for business, to solve this problem. I am convinced that we will vote in favour of this law in our second reading. There really needs to be seen, not settled, as his diplomats put it back, because it seems that they keep it in mind for the next museums. There are little things to clean up, and in general the bill is very necessary, normal. I think we'll take him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u123	Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u124	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, in principle, this bill does not offer any revolution in the field. Indeed, today there is a common civil passport for all Ukrainian citizens, and there are also service for a certain category of persons, and there are diplomatic passports. A problem may arise, or it may be appropriate to adopt a new law. The position of our faction is that this law must be passed, especially since the problem is of international importance, and also of the international obligations of Ukraine, so on the authority of the state, it should not be delayed, I think it has been introduced in a timely manner and should be dealt with as quickly as possible. The point is that some of the principles of the situation, such as the issuance of service passports, which were subject to justified criticism here, are governed not by law at all, but by regulations such as presidential decrees. In general, some question the appropriateness of such a category as a business passport. Well, really, a business passport, it separates, forms some kind of, let's say, elite, but it's not even diplomatic. So the question is, Is it just that some Ukrainian citizens feel more equal than others, or is it normative? Indeed, Ukraine’s bilateral agreements with a number of countries provide that the availability of a business passport provides a visa-free regime. And that's enough for this category of passports to be preserved, and as rightly suggested by the bill, it's narrowed down and arranged. At the same time, we can't ignore the fact that it's difficult enough to date, well, let's say that there are fibers, there are bureaucratic barriers to getting ordinary foreign passports by ordinary citizens. It's totally unacceptable how unacceptable business is in this case. I could refer here to my own experience when I came to get a regular public passport a few years ago, and I think the interested services would be interested, and I wanted to write a statement, and they said, "You're not going to write it, and we're going to print it, and you're going to pay us 60 bucks for it." It's about this kind of business on nothing, and it's flourishing. But at the same time, with the law, it is easier to deal with such shameful phenomena. So given all the circumstances in the complex, the faction of Victor Yushchenk's Block "Our Ukraine" supports the bill as a basis and invites all MPs who have made the right points to submit it in an orderly manner. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u125	Andrew Schlell. You don't? Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine. Get Cybenka ready instead of Chelnokov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u126	Honorable deputies. We've practically got two of these situations, similar to each other, these are government numbers on cars and passports. Can any of us say that he has full control of the situation of how many car numbers there are now in Ukraine? The numbers that had been adopted since the Soviet Union were then changed several times during Ukraine's independence, and this process is now continuing. And it goes on far not for free, and it's a pretty profitable business. The same is true of passports. I certainly support the efforts of the authors of this bill to arrange for the issuance of diplomatic and service passports. But perhaps a broader question needs to be asked: The passport system in Ukraine in general. In fact, some citizens have old Soviet passports, Ukrainian citizens' passports, which, by the way, have been deprived of the citizen's right to state their nationality, and special and diplomatic passports. No questions about a diplomatic passport. Of course, there is a circle of persons to use. I think the positive thing is that this circle here is narrowed down and regulated. It's about a special passport, a special service passport. For a long time, I worked as a civil servant, and I did not have a business passport, and this did not prevent me from going abroad to carry out my ministry. It is said that there are certain arrangements with countries for visa-free travel on official passports. Before adopting a similar bill and talking about a business passport, it would be desirable to have statistics with which countries, which individuals from and from us have the right to use it. I also had a bit of an interest in international practice, at least in neighbouring countries, and making my citizens equal and even more equal, I don't think it's enough to fit even our Constitution. Therefore, I believe that, based on our position on diplomatic passport, we need to raise a broader question, draft a new bill on Ukrainian passport, rejecting the position on official passport, leaving only a public passport, where people should have, if not required, the right to include their nationality, religion and such things, at least, the right to do so. And diplomats, of course, have a diplomatic duty to carry out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u127	Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists, instead of the national deputy of Chelnokov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! The problem that is currently being discussed is the problem of a diplomatic, service passport, really, very important. But I went out to this rostrum to get both your attention and the attention of Ukrainian citizens to things that are much more painful and very important today. The point is that today, under the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, there was a large number of actions in which about 10,000 people took part, the second stage of the "Protection of Veterans" campaign, where a large community of veterans, pensioners, disabled people, black people protesting the replacement of social benefits provided by legislation, so-called, targeted money aid. On their orders, I wanted to read out the demands to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Lithuania, Vladimir Mihajlovich, and Prime Minister of Ukraine, Janukovic Viktor Fedorovich. "We, as participants in the second stage of the protest on behalf of the multimillion-dollar army of war veterans, invalids, pensioners, Chernobylers, express our indignation at the fact that the state's authorities continue to ignore our demands of September 11, 2003 and are putting pressure on veterans for the purpose of refusing the benefits established by the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine. We believe that our benefits are, indeed, targeted assistance from the State to those who, without harming their lives and health, have protected and built our nation, who have placed it at the same level as the advanced nations of Europe, who have brought not only European but also the world glory of Soviet science, medicine, education. If it is necessary to take off the benefits without any financial compensation, it is among those who have brought Ukraine to ruin. And the people are poor. We are strongly protesting that the government in the draft budget, article 84, puts working pensioners ahead of their choice, or retirement, or work, which in fact deprive pensioners of the right to earn at least a little of their modest pension. There's only 500 million dollars in the budget project to pay off our deposits, and we're back in line for 50 bucks. All of this confirms that the 2004 government budget is antisocial. The media prepares public opinion for another inevitable increase in the price of bread and other foods. The president's task is to privatise the housing and utilities sector, which will lead to a new sharp rise in prices and tariffs for quarterly payments and utilities. We ask in power why the road to Europe, which we are now passing from Stalingrad to Berlin, lies in the physical abuse of the older generation of the Ukrainian people. Indeed, the authorities believe that there are not enough sufferings for the older generation to deal with fascism in the early postwar years when Ukraine was lifted from the ashes and during the elimination of an accident at CHAES. We point out, on the other hand, that raising the standard of living of workers, strengthening the social sphere is possible not by cutting the benefits of workers, but by developing the economy of the state. This requires full use of the opportunities open to Ukraine with the signing of the agreement on the creation of a single economic space between Ukraine, Belarus, Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation. On the basis of what has been said, we demand - I conclude - that Volodymyr Mikhajlovich will fully comply with the requirements of the participants in the action transferred to the Head of the Supreme Council and Prime Minister on 11 September 2003 in the first part of the refusal of paragraph 5 of Supreme Council Regulation No.987-4 of 19 June 2003 and Cabinet of Ministers Order No.253 of 2 March 2002. Dear colleagues! I'm a little bit. These requirements, but we've handed them over to the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers. I am absolutely convinced that we are obliged to hear the opinion of our disadvantaged citizens with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Time is up, I ask very briefly. Taras Cranvil, then Hennaday Josephovich. Very short, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u130	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Well, clearly, this law has to be passed because the cowgirl we have today with diplomatic service passports can't go on, and it's leading to the fact that it really discredits the same notion of diplomatic passport and I would ask everyone to support this bill in the first reading. Before the second reading, we're going to have to work with him. First. The very status of a national MP who provides that a deputy may at any time have to leave at any point, or Ukraine, or a world that violates the rights of his electorate, or of any Ukrainian citizen in general, foresees a change that would allow him to get a passport without giving up and keep it to himself. I will give an example when I had to follow the hot trails a few months ago, to go to Poland, where our Ukrainian citizens, who were forced to work there, went from my home to the Polish border in Lviv 70 km. And I managed to be there in a few hours, literally, to stop the basic abuse of people. Imagine that I had to go to Kiev, get a passport here, get a passport here, get a shipping trip and go back, and then with those people there could have done whatever it was, because there was a basic beating and torture. I'd ask that we bring it to the second reading. And for me, it is still necessary to establish a certain point of responsibility of officials for issuing diplomatic passports, especially for servicemen of other categories that are not subject to this. Since the law will again cease to work, criminality will again move abroad with corresponding passports. And the last point is, it's probably a little bit of a populism plan, but you still have to write out more clearly in law the status of a diplomatic passport holder when crossing the border and all that. So let's say I'm not going to say, I'm not sure if I should introduce an extra rule on out-of-step procedures, and so on, but I'm sure it would be necessary at some point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u131	Hennady Josephovich Udovenko, head of the committee Please, Hennady Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u132	Dear national MPs, as a person who had a diplomatic passport and still has since 1 January 1960, would like to point out that this law is very necessary, and it is the law, not the President's decrees, that should regulate the standards of diplomatic passport or service. This bill is in line with European standards. If we are to move in that direction, we need to support and accept it. If we go backwards, each of us can voluntarily refuse a diplomatic passport and travel to Russia on old samples of a Soviet passport. The other one. The law also contains technical provisions, such as a description, a detailed description of the diplomatic and service passports. This is unnecessary, since there are other positions that the passport approves, the form of the passport is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. This is our last diplomatic passport, this is the last one, and this last passport, it fits all modern standards. Next. It is very important that a diplomatic passport protects a highly respected person in Ukraine’s foreign affairs. But the presence of a diplomatic passport does not mean that it protects a citizen, and it can be arrested if there is no diplomatic visa in the passport, that is to say, to a diplomatic passport, the state to which one of us is going should also give a diplomatic visa. Next. The issue of the passport system at all was raised. I inform you that the committee I lead on human rights is conducting committee hearings on this issue, a round table to consider the issue of the passport system and to bring it into line with the Constitution and international standards. We have a business passport today, we have a diplomatic passport, we have a passport from a Ukrainian citizen and a passport, a foreign passport from Ukraine. The national deputy Zwania has already introduced a bill proposing to unite an internal passport and a foreign passport. I invite interested persons to attend this meeting on October 15. And I support the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' proposal that we set up a working group, because there is a specificity that needs to be discussed, not in the general meeting, but how to reflect on the issue of diplomatic passport holders in our legislation. I ask you to support me in the first reading and to complete some of the provisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, the review of the draft law on Ukrainian diplomatic and service passports, this document under number 3100, has been completed. The decision will be made in the light of the discussion. A draft law on the nature of privatization of state-owned shareholders is being announced for consideration. What rule is proposed? For reporters, give 5 minutes and 5 minutes each for answers to questions. I'll talk to you in a similar way. Use the rest of the time to discuss. Is there no objection? Please, Mojcan Volodymir Petrovich, reporting officer, Ukrainian National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u134	Silent Volodymyr Petrovich, 31st constituency, the city of Krivi Rig, a faction of national Democrats. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! The company itself was founded at the end of 1998 and started working as of January 1, 1999. The company’s statutory fund has been stockpiling all the controlling stocks of current mining companies in Ukraine, as well as less control packages. Almost five months later, the founders of this company — the Ministry of Industrial Policy and the State Property Fund — were handed out to control the stock of almost all businesses. At that time, agreements were signed for administration on behalf of those who ruled and on behalf of those who were founders, that is, with the State. Over the course of these five years of governance, most of those companies that run these companies, they practically all bought up those shares that belonged to the Ukrainian State Property Fund, which is 50 minus one that was sold today. The law is called, which I wrote back in November 2002 on the features of the privatisation of this company. The very special thing about privatization is that, by the way, when I found out that the State Property Fund was going to sell these packages today's operations, so to speak, it goes against all the requirements that had been agreed before. So I decided to write this bill, in which one thing, I repeat, is that the right of the first hand to buy the control packets are owned by those shareholders who now own more than 25 percent of these companies. By the way, during this time, there have been many suggestions from the Committee of Industrial Policy, at meetings and at some meetings that have taken place in the Ministry of Industrial Policy, both positive and negative. The negative is that my bill today does not foresee, let's say, an increase in output and an improvement in quality. It does not need to be adopted because there are no laws on nadrah, on land use, on land tenure, and so forth. There is no discussion of the closure of mining companies. But I want to tell you that in these businesses, people know how to increase graduation and know how to improve quality without laws. So I'd like the law to support you to go in that particular direction. I emphasize once again that this law should give people who are already in charge there today and have more than 25 percent of their packets to be the first to be sold by the company Rudprom itself. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. Put the name of the people’s deputies on the sign. Stepan Cloud, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u136	The cloud, the block of Julia Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland. Tell me, what is the need right now for you to privatize Rudprom right now? Because we understand very well that this is going to lead to the creation of a supermonopoly of those who have already acquired precious metallurgical factories. And so the state will completely lose any control and influence on this basic sector. More than that, there is no such huge money in Ukraine to privatize, to buy the entire complex at a real price.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u137	Thank you for asking. I answer that the decision to privatize Krukramu, I don't know how it was made, but it is said that in September of this year it should have been started for sale. Given that no matter how much time goes by, and this is a matter of privatizing mining enterprises, I'm going to make the same decision, and I've initiated this bill as I called it. So the decisions are made, you know who, about privatization. And my job is to make sure that there, at these enterprises, where 50 minus one was sold long ago, it's sold long ago, so that no corporate war will happen again today, so that the enterprise will work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u138	National MP Anisimov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u139	Please pass on the word of Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u140	You can't do that right now. You can't do that! Well, for God's sake!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u141	Well, thank you. But I'm pressing all the buttons.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u142	Well, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u143	My question is next. Tell me, who exactly is behind the 20 percent of the shares that already exist? And that's exactly what you're proposing right now for adoption as a law. What specific structures, and who is leading these structures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u144	Thank you for asking. But I won't be able to tell you who's behind that 25 percent or more. Because to this day, trade in securities has gained such a bad height. I can't say. Different businesses, you know? If the brothers, let's say, the central mining unit, where I know it, what I know is that there are 25 or more shareholders in the American company. If you're taking the North Room, there's another one, if you're in the South Room, there's another one. Ingulatic is the second, well, some combinations don't belong to the Kuhrtprom statute fund, so, there may be changes, I don't even want them, I don't even know what they are. But there are, I know what they are, I know that these are the 99 percent that have been doing corporate governance of the state since May 99th to practically today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u145	Yes, Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u146	Thank you, Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye City, Faction of the SDPU. Dear Vladimir Petrovich, I suggest you approach your bill and the bill of another state position. You see, the vast majority of the members of the Hall still don't understand when a separate system of privatization of a particular enterprise, which, for example, has strategic, defensive value, is at least, honest and transparent. I have three questions for you. First. For what purpose was created by the state-owned stock company Ukruprom, you're on the subject that gave those 10 companies, those labour groups that joined this state-owned stock company, now a new outpouring of a new point. The other one. What is the ultimate goal of this privatization? And the third. I mean, where are the interests of the state, the interests of the labour community? You're talking about some 25 percent that the owners have, we're not interested in, we're talking about labor groups. And the third question. You're proposing to set a five-year grace period for the five-year repayment of corporate debt under taxes and payments to the state budget. What does that have to do with anything? Three questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u147	From the last one, as they say, I'm going to start by answering what you said about the state. Then there were interests in the state when the Cabinet of Ministers decided to set up this company, when it became clear to everyone that the mining industry of Ukraine had approached that position when it was necessary to open and close, then there were the interests of the state. But when they started handing over administrations, well, you know, I wasn't, I say, I wasn't standing by, I can't tell you what the interests were then, moving when the founders passed on. Chechetov's sitting there, he'll say what they thought about when they gave. Or someone else, he's not in the hall. That's the first question. The second question. What you said from the state's point of view about people, I think my colleagues. Which is going to come out on this rostrum, and we've got it all figured out, so to speak, by the people. What about the state? Look at the indicators. Look at the performance of this company. And the company's indicators are made up of enterprise indicators. Now for a five - year grace period. It exists until today, when these enterprises entered, I do not remember there three years or four years ago, in an economic experiment. It exists, so it's repeated, there's nothing new here. There's no experiment for three days.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u148	Dear colleagues! Next question, Bogdan Kostinuk, faction of our Ukraine. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u149	Bogdan Costinjuk. Dear reporter! I also want to draw attention from a national point of view. Imagine how you would protect your public interests. State-owned company, state-owned enterprise. Obviously, it is profitable, highly profitable. Please tell us why the State should give up the profits it is already earning today. Why should she give up this business for free? If only. Let's say we do this analogy. If the owner of a private enterprise had received high or very high profits from this enterprise, would he have voluntarily given up or sold it if it was highly profitable? Thank you. From a national point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u150	Thank you. I support you personally, but there's a decision to sell, because there's got to be 2 billion in the budget from privatization. And it goes in there and you know what businesses are already getting involved in selling them. So in fact, as they say, in the peak of what it already is, it's written.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u151	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u152	Let's ban it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u153	Thank you. Vladimir Petrovich, time is up. Please sit down. The national deputy of Ukraine, Vadim Mikolaiovich Gurov, has the floor for the report. Please let go of Gurova.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u154	Vadim Gurov, Krivbass. Well, first of all, I'm not gonna be very original if I say I'm categorically opposed to privatizing Krudprom. Of course, the question will arise: "Gurov, how would you object if you gave your privatization law?".. That's why we don't have to give it a round of applause yet. And the bottom line is this. We've been making one mistake after another for 12 years. This savage privatization, which went beyond the laws, beyond schedules and beyond human understanding, is simple. And talk about us. For the benefit of the State and for no use, this is certainly a very serious matter. That is why I have passed this law with only one purpose to at least preserve what has already happened, because we cannot go back, and practically if I say so, half of this issue has already been privatized. But there's 50 plus 1, which is ruled by the State. That's why it's my law. First. There is no way that this place can be split. It's not just one mine or one GOK, it's our wealth, it's the foundation of metallurgy. And if we do. HOC separately, South Africa separately, mine separately, as a result of which we will destroy the raw materials base. And a commodity base is the foundation. Let's move on. You can't do all of this without the main law, the Surrender Act, the Rent Act. But it's all happened. So I passed a law that is fundamentally different from the previous law. Well, what's the first thing? In no case should it simply be given in the towers to privatize; it should be open. And secondly, it must be at the open auction. This time. Secondly, there is the role of the labour force, i.e. his first hand, if he is taking further matters of privatization. Secondly, 50 plus 1 must be left behind. Other questions, but there should be no discussion on the subject. There's practically one South Africa there, only 25 percent left, well, you won't be able to bring it back. However, what is left must be preserved. And a very serious point is the terms of the ransom. First, increase production, increase profits; third, increase employment as a result. And, of course, increase the average wage of workers who work there. Because without addressing these issues, all the other issues are of course highly questionable. Well, if you tell me the story of this question, I want to tell you. President Leonid Danilovich Kuchma wrote on a letter of action, and I wrote a letter: privatize only with a separate complex. To which the Mines Fund immediately responded and also said that we are behind the privatization of a separate complex. As soon as that inscription is forgotten, they say that it has to be sold in part because the State will have a lot of money. So where are you, Chechetov? Is it there or here? That's one question. The Ministry of Economics is categorically responsible for cutting the place apart in part. And I just want to tell you that the Ministry of Industrial Policy, which is more or less imaginary, has said that it is simply not possible to do so. I want to tell you that the privatization of Krudprom is worse than the privatization of Skretelekoma, even a separate factory. Because it's a collection, it's a foundation. At home, destroying the foundation, it's useless to do everything else. I therefore believe that, at the very least, we, the Cabinet of Ministers, which is at odds and cannot resolve this issue, so we should take this into our own hands and address this issue. But without the law, of course, we can't do anything. That's why I have a very, I think it's okay. Nevertheless, the issue would have to be discussed, and the comments would be very serious, summarized and then returned to the solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the reporter? Please sign up. On the board, show me the name of the national MPs. Peter Petrovich Toloczko, members of the People's Rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u156	Vadim Mikolaiovich is honorable! Judging by the puffos and the content of your speech, I understand that you don't have privatized shares in those businesses, do you? How are you?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u157	Well, what I want to tell you. He's an academic in Parliament as well. The question is very serious. So I officially state that there is no stock in these enterprises and in any enterprise at all, there is no and I don't think it will be in the foreseeable future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u158	And that's not a good thing to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u159	That's why I'm not in your faction. It's so you won't speak again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u160	Constantine Mercury Sitnik, block of Julia Timoshenko. You don't? Yes, then Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u161	Vadim Mikolaiovich, you were very pompous, but to be honest, I didn't quite get it. Well, I realize that your shares are gone, but give me a clear answer: Who's lobbying so that whoever's already got 25 percent of the shares has the rest and is a mess? That's the first question. And the second. If you insist that there be fifty plus one vote of state, why is this law in general? Shouldn't we simply reject it and work on a more acceptable bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u162	Thank you for asking. The point is: if we don't adopt any law, that is, we don't make any rules for a future destiny, then it will go the way it was twelve years ago -- we'll talk about one thing, and things will go very differently. I believe that the privatization of Krudprom is still necessary within the framework of the law, or even the word not privatization at all, but the fate of Krudprom within the framework of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u163	Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u164	Vadim Mikolaiovich! Fucking Communist faction. You may have seen under our walls today were veterans, who today also suffer from what is called an accommodation that replaces relief benefits. I know in our Cherkachina, in the city of Vatutin, when our mines were destroyed, and today practically the city is dying. I'm asking you two bills, one of them yours. I know you were at our committee meeting. Please tell me, how does the local authorities, the local authorities, respond to each other’s laws, first of all to your local authorities?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u165	Thank you for asking. So, local government, so what is local government? This is the mayor, the city's executive committee. The City Executive Committee, the deputies, is basically supporting my bill because, in principle, all the deputies are the officers of Krivbass, and they are interested in this city living and flourishing as it now lives. It's their direct interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u166	Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u167	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Vadim Mikolaiovich, they say that the President's family wants to buy, as recently purchased by one Nikopolski Kombinate, the Krudprom is the only complex. What do you think of this as a national deputy, and how much income do we give to our ruler in general in the "Standroom" and in his enterprises to imagine that this law accepts sales as a separate complex? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u168	Well, thank you. So the annual Krudprom turnover is about 3.5 billion bracelets. It's the chorus. With regard to privatization as a single complex, you knew that I immediately said that I was categorical. against it. But when it does happen, it's very important that they don't privatize the peaks, and the pears stay in the city. Because it's a complex, not even a factory, it's a storage facility, it's a failure, it's a drained mine. I mean, if you're taking this case, take the sociosphere, take this failure, take it. I mean, the whole town's in the pits. And that's why it won't be easy to take it. I understand, and I consulted you. If that's the case, we'll think about it, and if they only want to take the mine separately, separately. I mean, tops, then, I guess we won't let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u169	And thank you. Please sit down, Vadim Mikolaiovich, the time is up. A report from the Committee on Economic Policy on the administration of national agriculture, property and investment has the floor for the report of the first deputy head of the committee, Demjokhin Vladimir Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u170	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. The Committee, at its meeting, considered the draft law on the specialities of privatization of the State Shareholder Company 3168, which was introduced by the People's MP, Mr. Movcan. However, since an alternative bill has been tabled, which has just been reported by our colleague, People's Deputy Gurov, 3168-1, the Committee has reviewed both bills again. These bills propose to define the features of the privatisation of the State Shareholder Company. I think you're familiar with the findings of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office. The findings by one and by the second law coincide by 80 per cent. I will not give examples of these coincidences, but in view of the comments made on the Committee by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council two committees - our Economic Policy Committee, the Industrial Policy Committee - together with the legislative initiative and the Cabinet of Ministers to return, finalize these bills, merge them into a single bill and submit them for re-reading. For reasons of objectivity, I would like to point out that there is another draft regulation, and we will take a decision on those orders, Decree 3168/p-1. It is one point away from the draft regulation proposed by the Committee, namely, paragraph 2: "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the State Property Fund prohibit the holding of general shareholders' meetings of the DAC "Krudprom" until a final decision is taken. The point is, what I would like to point out is not a very correct draft regulation, because we cannot write such a word as “prohibit”. We can recommend refraining from holding a meeting. I would like to express a separate opinion on the privatization of such facilities, so to speak. The thing is, both in the findings of the Scientific and Expert Office and in both bills, we're talking about leaving 50 plus one, selling 50 minus one, leaving 25 plus one. In today's legislative field, I think it's all you know, not 50 plus one, not 25 plus one doesn't solve the fundamental issues. Because 50 plus one does not allow a meeting to take place for many years until the Shareholder Society Act is passed. Therefore, the final decision will be made by those currently in charge of the company. I hope that all my colleagues, the people's deputies, will take a very careful look at this issue and make the right decision, which has been considered. The considered solution could be that, given that the privatization process was already under way, either there was a need for a full-scale retraining, or we should make the only right decision — an open tender, an open tender, or a package in the State that would solve it, not just a word-based one, but a final decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u171	Dear colleagues! Is there a question? Then sign up, please. On the board, show me the name of the national MPs who are registered. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u172	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleague! Please tell me this question, which I will now announce as a member of the Committee on Environmental Management. Natural exploitation is an area governed by many laws and, above all, with a view to obtaining a certain rent for the use of natural resources. Please tell us how the ore ore rents go, which should be collected separately in the budget account and distributed as is the case in Libya for oil: 50 percent for individual accounts of each citizen and 50 percent for further development of the mineral raw material base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u173	Thank you for asking. I think that, in general, this issue is slightly beyond the scope of the bill under consideration, but we will not resolve the issue that you have asked about the payment for the subsoil until the division of products has been passed. It's the key. But as payments actually go today, it's hard for me to say, we're considering privatization. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u174	Basil Nadrag, National Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u175	Dear Vladimir Anatolyevich! Please tell me he was sitting, listening, having conversations with the drafters. I don't quite understand the logic of how two bills can be combined, including those of your committee, in order for something to happen. If, in fact, there are two mutually exclusive approaches. One author said that privatization was needed and, accordingly, as a method of fragmentation of the Single Complex. The second said that privatization was necessary, but not a fraction of the complex did not give rise to the privatization of the movement. That's one nuance. Second shade. You represent a committee that knows property. The issue. The authors of both members of the Prompolitics Committee. Did you ask the Committee's general opinion? What our parliamentary committee of prompolitics says about this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u176	Thank you. The opinion of the prompolitics committee coincides with the draft regulation proposed by the Committee on Economic Policy. And when it comes to mutually exclusives, I wouldn't say that. If only the text of the law, rather than the emotional statement of respectable Vladimir Nikolaevich, is clearly analysed, there is 80 per cent overlap. That is why we believe that they can be united. And the fact that Vadim Nikolajevic says that he is against privatization in principle, but unfortunately there is nothing left to do, the train is on its way and we may not be able to jump into the last wagon unless we make the right decision. Well, you can agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u177	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u178	Please pass the word to Valentina Seminouk, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u179	Valentina Seminouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u180	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. Dear Volodymyr Anatolyovich! First of all, I'd like to see how the Economic Policy Committee has made a committee. At the Institute of Economics to make real economic calculations on virtual changes in the fullness of the budget, because it's a profitable enterprise. I mean, I realize there's an old privatization program today that clearly says there's a buyer-procedure to sell, not leave anything to the state. And the second question. You said we don't have a mechanism for distribution. The Law on Product Distribution Agreements is in force. I won the Constitutional Court there. You can clearly ask questions of responsibility. So that's the phrase I'd like you to correct. And the third question. How do you see that the great tribulation can turn ecologically and with those floods, and with all that in the world, so that, by virtue of norms and international law and our right, we do not allow the trouble that may be ecological as a result of the wrong actions in the post-privatization period? I think you know what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u181	Thank you for those questions. So, consistently, did we make a request to calculate efficiency? No, we didn't. The draft decision of the Committee was therefore not done and was therefore sent for further refinement. I think these calculations should take a long time. First of all, it's probably not the institution that should do it, but first of all, it's the audit of enterprises that are part of the Krudprom. And then there's the institute. With regard to the Production Division Act. If it worked properly, I don't think you'd be making a request to the Constitutional Court. With regard to environmental problems, yes, they can be very serious because, as is known, seven baby - sitters have no eyes. And if that's all, I'm sorry about the jargon, scattered between the owners of the entire Krudprom, then there's probably going to be a big problem in managing all these huge complexes. I would like to conclude with my personal opinion. I am not in favour of privatizing Krudprom, but given the prevailing circumstances, I think that I need to have clear guidelines for the benefit of the Power and the people working in the region today, in Krivbassa, that these rules should be directed to the interests of these people and, of course, of the States. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u182	Thank you, Vladimir Anatoliovich, time is up. Have a seat, please. What does the government think about these projects, which is the position of the government? Please. Please head of the State Property Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u183	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! There are two questions. The first question is the relevance of privatization. It's a political decision. If it is accepted, then consider the bill. If not, then there are no questions at all. If the issue is adopted politically with regard to the privatisation of Krusprom, there are two bills. I want to ask you one question: why did it happen that there are two national MPs who are part of the majority faction that are part of the same Committee of Industrial Policy, but they have a diametrically opposite view of the privatisation of the Krusprom? I answer that there is a corporate interest there and there. What is the state’s interest? In my view, privatization of these objects should aim, not at budgeting, but at ensuring the prospects for these strategic enterprises. I fully agree with the distinguished national MP Stepan Ilkovich Cloud, which is difficult to find an investor who could buy the entire Krusprom enterprise. There is no investor like that. And if he raises money on the Crucifixion, he doesn't have enough money to invest, to invest in the development of the enterprise. There will be no prospects, yes. And if you sell individual businesses that are part of Sculpture, there's going to be a few investors, and these investors will be able to provide a higher price for selling individual packages and investing more money in the development of individual enterprises and ensure a development perspective. But I'm definitely against, so somewhere more progressive is the bill of the people's MP. But I'm definitely against it, and the position of the fund, we're definitely against the idea of who already has to give it back. No, it's not. To conduct an open tender, and an investor who will provide a higher price, and, most importantly, a better and bigger investment for development, let him win. And it's going to win both the state and the business. What's going on in solving the problems of the region is maybe with the scheme, with this scheme, if they're selling, I'm half-waves literally, maybe with the scheme, if they're selling, and the competitions are going to be in separate enterprises, and they're going to enter into an investment obligation that they're going to have to give the city there some other fund to solve the environmental problems of this kind of investment. And then the region's leadership of these investments will be directed and invested in the development of the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u184	Thank you, too. I just want to say, for you, I'm going to tell Michael Chechtev that you don't have to give the National Deputies an assessment, you're going to have to give them an estimate and not by the State Property Fund to do that. Your job is to evaluate the project to the extent it is in the interests of the state. I was responsible for you. Let's move on to the discussion. On board, please, the names that have been signed up for discussion. Yes, Yuri Carmazin. I'm asking your permission for 10 minutes to resume our morning session so we can have a brief discussion. Yuri Carmazin. Prepare Volodymyr Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u185	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I would refer to this as the desire of a group of persons to be richer by five billion dollars at a minimum. That's what I would call this law. Now, as our former colleague, Mr. Chechetov, spoke here, I would like to ask him: Would he be able to name at least one enterprise of those who have privatized, which today would have fulfilled their investment responsibilities? You won't call them! You will not even make an inventory of your investment obligations before the budget has to be adopted! And that means you're working for the wrong state! You work for another state. In time, it will become clear which one. I urge you to remember that you were still a decent deputy! So you don't have to do the things that are being scattered and sold right now. There'll be a reprivatization. And I'm going to say to Demijochin that the train that you're going on, that's what you said, that's the answer from the committee, that's between the two. We can't satisfy both of them, these two projects, both Gurov and Silent. You couldn't be satisfied, you tried. I don't think that's right. History will judge us. This enterprise needs to know, more faithfully, this company, and strategically, and defensively, for the state, is the future of the state, the future of our state in its existence, not that we are going to enrich Mr. Jaroslavsky today, our supposed colleague who runs one of the companies of this Rudprom. Another group of deputies also manages the Rudprom business. On what basis? Mr. Chechetov, why don't you talk about it? Where is the public interest? Why don't you call them names? Where's the Attorney General? Mr. Piscoon, you have to know that there are people who take their businesses away, and you're getting cold at the time! I advise you to watch what's proposed. We've released these companies for five years, we're offered to predict the benefits again, we're going to predict it again. So that it would not be a civil service, it would not put anything under arrest, and so on. Dear friends, if we were. Parliament, this question would not have stood. We would now include in the list of enterprises that are not privatized -- everything, and a dot. I urge you to do it. The Gurov project is better, but how much better are we Ukrainians going to choose from two evils? How long are we going to do this? Let's understand that from the two difficulties, we don't have to choose either -- that's what the English say. So I'm going to Valentina Seminyuk: Gather the commission, let's do the project now, and we're going to accept it immediately in the first and second readings. And, Mr. Chechetov, tell those guys -- Jaroslavski, the company and others -- that, boys, you're not going to get beat up here, Ukraine won't be allowed to rob itself in a year of presidential election. We'll save the property and the train will leave. If the train is not going there, Mr. Demjochin, it is being undermined.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u186	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine has a word. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, in a state of difficulty, I went out to this rostrum. The most dangerous decisions in economic policy are simple solutions. Fear simple decisions. I think we've broken wood a lot because we've always wanted to solve complex problems because of the simple decisions we've been making, difficult problems have complex solutions. And we have to work in that direction. Now essentially. First of all, we have to take into account the fact that Krudprom is a strategic enterprise, it's a raw materials base in Ukraine. And that's why it has to have very important, important features in privatization. But, really, I agree with those who have already said here that we need to determine whether to privatize or not. Let's stop at the answers: it's pointless. But in doing so, we must take into account that the Privatisation Act is in force, the Privatization Program is in place, the old program is in operation at least. The Supreme Council has to perform a control function. And there are problems that can just stretch beyond the Supreme Council's control function, outside the committee, outside the control committee. We have to take that into account. I mean, if we just make that decision, that's not enough, that's not a guarantee that privatization won't happen, because we know that we often have ownership in general outside the privatization process, with violation and so on. We all know that. Second answer. So this is a simple answer, but it has complex consequences. And we need to get to the bottom of this whole scheme. The second answer is that it is appropriate to privatize. Then again the question arises: How, if appropriate, how to take into account the features of this complex. And the main question here is how to preserve the integrity of the complex. Here's the main thing. It's not even a matter of privatizing or not privatizing. And the point of the problem, the root of the problem, the nerve of the problem is to preserve the integrity of this complex so that it doesn't dissipate it. Or then, let the state really take over the government's package, or let the state look for investors, but it works in such a way as to preserve integrity and not scatter. So I urge you to focus on how to preserve the integrity of the complex, save it for the economy of Ukraine. Of course, it takes serious calculations and it takes a decision for us, I think, to make a wise decision, and a wise decision, that's the decision the committee proposed, but it didn't offer it properly. I think we need to do a little more research, take some calculations, and see how we can solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u188	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, a Communist faction, prepare for Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u189	Thank you, Yuri Solomatin, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Ukraine's Mining and Metallurgical Complex makes a left-hand portion of the government budget and creates an even more left-hand share of the profits in modern Ukrainian capitalists. Nadra Ukraine remained the last unreceptive of its wealth. At first, there was the fascination of what was created by human hands, and then the earth was captured, and now it's on the line. And what we're seeing today around the Natural Resources Minecology, when for almost four months now, the Central Executive cannot make a final decision on the distribution of relevant and natural resources policies and policies. This is a testimony to the fact that the struggle in this field is going on, not to life, but to death. The key issues in this case are licenses and distribution agreements. This is done under the banner of the Cabinet of Ministers, not under the laws of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today, the principle of distribution and capture is in force. And today we've heard this from an example of the discussion of "The Crucifixion." And to that end, there's a State Property Fund with its anti-national functions. The stories about tenders that seem to solve the issue of involving a strategic investor are no longer satisfying or convincing. Tenders are another game of thimbles when three have engaged one of the country’s uncles and will surely be fooled. And they're going to put someone on this tender to meet the requirements of the formal holding fund, which is the Union of Peacekeepers in Liberia or Burkina Faso. The point is that the very system of power that has been established in Ukraine in recent years has contributed to all of this. It's designed to do exactly that. And these actions can't be different. There were calls for a state, such a powerful appeal that it should be protected. Ladies and gentlemen, what state are we talking about? The only Ukrainian, our Ukrainian? Perhaps not about the nation of the worker. So our faction will vote against both of these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u190	Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepare Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u191	Dear colleagues! In considering this bill, more faithfully these two bills, we need to speak clearly, to whom does it benefit? Those who, I would say, have passed and drafted a bill that proposes leaving 25 percent of the country behind can be said to benefit them and those who lobby for the passage of the law in the Supreme Council. Why? Because 25 percent of it doesn't affect the process. First. It's different. Is it convenient for a State to privatize businesses by selling an uncontrolled enterprise? No, it's not convenient, it's a waste of state property and nothing else. If you're selling, you're selling the only property complex. When can this be done? You can't do this this year. We need to make our state really marketable if we decide to sell, five to seven years from now, when this enterprise costs $5 billion to $7 billion. And then cover Ukraine’s external debts by selling one strategic enterprise. Today, in the following year, we can't do that, we have to make one decision: "Stuffromme" is to call an enterprise that is not privatized, and the stocks that follow it. And the government needs to propose a bill that would give the state an exclusive form, with 50 plus 1 shares to control and manage the enterprise. And gather stockholders' meetings if the state has 50 plus one. And such congregations should be legitimate. Next. The State Property Fund and the government, which there is no explanation that, with the State-controlled Constituent, you can have the same effect as our monopoly on the production of alcohol. We raise alcohol excises, we increase budget revenues. You're the same person with control over Krudprom, you can go into the politics of metallurgical enterprises, into the export policy of the metallurgical complex. Next. We don't have to drag representatives of the Committee on Ecology and above, let's put in a rent on ore, and let's keep the money in the budget, not the profits in the pocket of the metallurgy, which is already half the place in the Supreme. The halls have been borrowed and Krudprom is starting to send his representatives to the Supreme Council. Money needs to be paid in the budget rather than allowing the multimillionaires who use state property to make money. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u192	Valentina Seminouk, head of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization. Matthew's getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u193	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to answer Carmazin. There will be a meeting tomorrow of the Special Monitoring Commission. I invite all deputies to participate, and I think we'll make the right state decision, as the Special Monitoring Commission has done before. The other one. I did not by chance ask Vadim Gurov if there were such economic calculations and Mr. Demiokin. Sadly, they are not there. Thus, not only the Supreme Council’s Rules but also the Budget Code have been violated. Question three. The efficiency of managing an object that is now in the hands of the State. Has this standard been analysed in the State Property Fund and the Cabinet of Ministers? Unfortunately, the answer we have at the Christmas tree’s signature on behalf of the Special Control Commission is not given either, but it is noted that the interministerial commission that worked in the Cabinet of Ministers today finds that this object is a strategic assignment. And the Cabinet of Ministers will be addressing the issue of raising the efficiency of this company. First of all, I want us, honourable colleagues, to speak out of this rostrum, never to use double standards. Remember, the Nicopolian Ferrosco factory. If family members had to sell it, it was sold in parts: 25, 25, 25. And you don't need the Cabinet of Ministers to do that, and the fund is decided, and everything is signed. If you have to sell in bulk, there's going to be a trend in the Cabinet of Ministers because there's a corresponding order. On Friday, I spoke at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers. During May, there were three decisions made by a special review committee. Why changes are not made to the methodology so that all objects undergoing privatization are accounted for by inflation. 352 percent is an inflation index since 1996. Nothing's going on. Strategically designated objects for privatization are widely thrown in. Or maybe we'll privatize, and then we'll run a direct indexation. This speaks of the order and corruption of the state The way out. First of all, I think that as part of the commission's mandate, we will take a decision and consider the issue of governance and efficiency. I do hope so, and I think Vladimir Mikhailovich needs to talk to the President after all. On September 22, we sent the Law on the Administration of State Property, and there was a clear set of controls. Stop handing over objects that are strategic assignments that are not responsible for the efficiency of management to natural and legal persons. I'm just going to give you an example like this. The "Scartanafta" we spoke of here in the hall with you, representing from a foreign state -- vice-prime ministers, ministers and so on, attending all the meetings; representing from Ukraine -- the head of the Department of the Holding Foundation, which is present two or three times at the meeting. Who Will Take Responsibility? That's why I want to go back to the session room. By Thursday, the special review committee will have its decision, but once again, I would like to say that such an object, without representation from the Cabinet of Ministers, cannot be placed in the hall without economic reckoning. We don't need to work out between the clans here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u194	Yes, Sergey Matvienkov, MEP of the European Choice, last speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u195	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! The question of each major privatization must be related to conflict. This must be natural, as attractive facilities are becoming smaller and the demands of industrialized groups are increasing. Undoubtedly, Krudprom should be and should have its characteristics of privatization, as it is a special object. I'll just give you one number: well, the share of mining holdings is 69 per cent. Think about it. It's a huge amount. But I can call another number. To date, our metalworks are transporting about five million tons of raw materials from abroad with the potential that we have today in Kruthprom. To figure out what's going on and actually what we're being offered. Let's make some history. Let's see what happened. The State Share Company, Ukrudprom, was established in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers Order of December 98 by general order of the Ministry of Industrial Policy and the State Property Fund. The State set up the company by the Ministry of Industrial Policy and the State Property Fund. Public property packages of open stock companies have been transferred to the State Property Fund. According to the acts approved by Minprompolitics, the statutory fund of the GAC transferred the assets of State enterprises and organizations that were not subject to privatization at the time. But then the most interesting process begins. Enterprises are not subject to the privatization process, but they have gradually begun to disappear from the roster and gradually, gradually, the constitutional fund of the GAC “Ukratrod” of Ukraine is beginning to decline. I mean, one after the other, greedy pieces of this plant are starting to bounce off. Question one: Who privatized these enterprises? Question two: Who has decided to privatize these enterprises? Third: how was privatization undertaken? Fourth: What did the State get as a result of this privatization from these greedy pieces? And so on and so forth. We have put all these questions at a meeting of the Committee, but unfortunately we have not found any answers to the questions raised so far. I mean, in the translation into Russian, what do we have? We do. That we are now being transferred to the privatization process from a company that in its own time had enormous capacity and which was one of the most powerful enterprises. So today we have to solve the issues. Storage facilities, we have to solve the environmental issues of urban enterprises today, and these are the remnants that we are going to try to resolve today, so to speak, by these two laws. But the question is: Where did the greedy piece go, and who privatized it? Two bills, one proposed, let's split it up between the two, so let's say who's got it. I'm sorry, I'm very respectful of Mr. Silencen, but it's probably a wrong question. Why don't you ask the question, and why don't you include those who are interested in Krudprom's work, the same metallurgy, and why don't you include other structures that could make up competition? The second bill, with all due respect to my colleague, is simply delaying the resolution of this issue or the problem that has arisen here. So, if I say this today, I can say this: today, after our discussion, we can only answer one question, because we have not received an answer to all the questions that I have asked: will the Supreme Council control this process or will we not, will we take control of the processes that are taking place on the Crucifixion or not? I believe that we must first have an answer to all the questions I have said to deal with what is going on and then develop a normal framework that would first satisfy the interests of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u196	Yeah, one minute at the end of the line. Yuri Yehanurov, then Demyhochin's replica, and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u197	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, colleagues! As I consider the adoption of the bill in the first reading, I propose that we focus on the motives that prompted it to appear in the session room. The process of privatising the State Shareholder Company Krutprom has actually been initiated by the management of the Ukrainian Cabinet and they've been trying to change the management of mining and enrichment units for six months now. The fact that the shareholding activity of the company has been positive in recent years, the government has not stopped, the administrative resources in the form of the State Property Fund and the Public Prosecutor's Office are underway. The country already has an experience of "effective" farming in a region not too far from the Horn of Curve. [[in quotes]] Are we ready for government coal subsidies to be part of the mining of ore, and do all of us need them? Think about it. After voting Bill 3168, Vladimir Petrovich Movcana, in the first reading, we will in principle determine that the issue of such importance as the privatization of one of the basic sectors of the economy of the state should be addressed in a transparent manner in this room, not in the classrooms, oral instructions and telephone teams. And in the second reading, we're going to define questions about the future structure of industry management, separate from privatization terms, and with the interests of the city of Krivy Rig. Because the stock company is a city-creating company. By the way, a lot of the blocks in the Bill of the People's MP Gurov are directly relying on the second reading of the Basic Law of the Mobchan. And the last. Our committee has expressed concern about the processes that are taking place not only around the Crucifixion but also about the Equinox, the Azomash, the Crimson. We really want everyone to know how the process is going, by law or by concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u198	Vladimir Demyohin. Replica, please. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u199	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I apologize for using the complex, allegorical image of the carriage and the last wagon in my speech. All I wanted to do was explain this complex privatization process in a simpler way, but it didn't work out that way. If it is simplified and accessible to understand: if the Supreme Council does not intervene in the privatization of strategic facilities, they will be at low cost without us and not for the benefit of the State and people working in those enterprises, and we will not benefit from it. And then they're going to tell us that all of this happened without us and, so to speak, it's completely random. I'm sorry, I promise not to use allegories like this again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m0.u200	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft law on the specialities of privatization of the State Shareholder Company is complete. These are documents number 3168, 3168-1. The decision will be made in the light of the discussion. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. After 16 o'clock, we're going to have a short-term bill.
