ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:18]] Registered -412 There are 412 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the day of the birth of Ukrainian national deputies: Nikolay Dmitrovic's chariot, Melnikov Mikoli Petrovich and Tkača Romana Volodymirovich. Let's welcome them, we want all kinds of goodies. Turn on the microphone of Boris Illich, please. Please. Attention, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u2	Dear colleagues. Today, in Ukraine, a sad and yet bright day is the return to the motherland of our national genius, Taras Shevchenk. Now in Lviv, celebrations begin on this occasion. And let's say, as respectable as we are, let's join this folklore and say, no matter what the Pygmies try to get at least Kobzar's sole sole solely by their pathological tinyness, they emphasize the stellar heights recognized by the giant world. No, we don't canonize Shevchenk, just because his spirit lives among us dead and coming. However, the latest episode of Kiev Telegraph is being watched, not only because it was deliberately cast before the festivities. The dirty wind of the sun will not replace it. It is disturbing that this oat is published in a Russian - speaking newspaper. Then the undiscovered readers may think that this is the viewpoint of the Russians. And that's what's causing the disunity. I'm sure that the true Russians, who honor Shevchenka from ancient times and to this day as equal to Pushkin, are firmly separated from those who only slander Russian. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please honor this date, a memorable date for the Ukrainian people, a memorable date for the genius of the Ukrainian people who returned to the Fatherland by standing up. Thank you, please sit down. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with the Rules today, are taking decisions by the Supreme Council. Since we have many questions to consider according to the schedule of meetings for the fourth time, I would ask that we work in a coordinated and timely manner. First chapter. Please, from the procedure, Turkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, our faction does not for the first time raise questions about the preparation of the sessions. According to the Rules, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, I have already told you, and once again I remind you, the bills for second reading should be distributed to the people's deputies in 12 days. We have today several bills, more important bills, such as changes to the law on citizens' income tax, such as changes to the budget, which are only now beginning to be distributed to us. How can we vote, Vladimir Mikhailovich, when I have only by law 40 amendments to the budget that should be taken into account? I very much ask you, as Head, to comply with the Rules, to comply with the laws and Constitution of Ukraine and not to deprive the national deputies of their constitutional rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u5	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the Income Tax Act, I would like to remind you that we are carrying this document for the third time, and all the necessary documents are in the MPs. With regard to the law on amending the budget, Alexander Turchinov is absolutely right. We discussed this issue on the Conciliation Council and agreed that if the Budget Committee was ready to report, we would consider it. As far as I'm aware today I've had a conversation with the head of the Committee on Budgets, he's ready to address the issue. Yeah, we'll come -- we'll talk about it in concrete terms. Ladies and gentlemen, we agreed that we would put the chapter "Integrating into the Order of the Day" first. You have a list of drafts that need to be included in the agenda so that the committees can work on them. They're all worked up, in factions of objections they don't cause. Please, Stanislaw Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u6	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I fully support the proposal you're making, it would unlock the committee's work, give our work constructively. At the same time, for purely technical reasons, Bill 3425 Rudzikowski, Olujko, Ponomarenko, and others were passed. He was, and now he's not technically there.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u7	What's the bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u8	3425 - Rudzkowski, Olujko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u9	The name, the title of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u10	About the election of Ukrainian national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, this law has not been dropped for technical reasons. It's excluded for us to reconcile positions on a number of factions. There were suggestions, and I asked for questions that raise objections so that we could vote so that there are no differences in the session room. And this bill was proposed to be excluded, because there are a number of other bills, including the Electoral Code, to be considered separately, this is the question. Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u12	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Talking about what there's nothing to work on, so we need to include another 50 additional questions, well, it probably doesn't take any criticism, because we're very loaded with you and so on, we see in that order of voting that we're going to be in a big debt with you after the session, that we're not voting a percentage of 50 of what we planned. But since there is the will and desire of many MP factions and groups to vote in addition to the agenda, our proposal is not to vote. If we even vote through the list, we propose to remove the following numbers from this list: 3164, 3160, 3163, 3171, 3172, 3114, 3085, 3070, 3155, 3418, 3363, 3412. And for the rest, we're willing to vote, and then we're ready to vote separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, let's work this out. We agreed on the Conciliation Council, and if anyone has a warning, the factions make their proposals in writing by Wednesday. Those positions that came in were taken into account. And now I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill according to the list in chapter one, which is given to you. People's deputies would like to support the decision of the Conciliation Council. Please vote. [[10:09:43]] For 304 The decision is made, and I am truly grateful. Let us turn to the agenda and the decision - making process. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the head of the Council of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States. Please vote. [[10:10:28]] For 285 Decision taken. Staszewski Stanislav Telisforovich. There's Staszewski. I asked you to come to the rostrum, please. It's very short, why it's necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! This question was discussed yesterday at a meeting of the High Council Committee on Foreign Affairs. And it was decided to ask the Supreme Council to accept it. The reporter was identified by Kuras Ivan Fedorovich, and he and a group of national deputies were preparing this issue and there were no problems. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u15	Ivan Fedorovich Kuras is the need to report. Have a seat. Turn on the microphone of Kuras Ivan Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u16	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! This bill or a more faithful appeal is dictated by the situation today in the SND countries in connection with the formation of a single economic space. That's the first one. The other one. The intellectual space has always been the only one, but it has to be recorded in certain norms that affect the registration of trademarks and other forms of intellectual property. I am convinced, and we are all on the committee and in our faction, that this will be very timely, that this will correspond to the current status of Ukraine in the SND countries and will help us, as it were, to resolve these issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u17	I'm betting on a vote on adoption on the basis of a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the head of the Council of the International Assembly of States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States. Based on the base. [[10:13:03]] For 290 They took it as a foundation. What are some additions? Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. I see, I see, I see. Kirilenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u18	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, first of all, I didn't understand, but what is the actual position of the committee of profile and what is the discussion on this issue, if any. I mean, the position of the profile committee, I think most deputies are misunderstood, there was no report. Secondly, I do not understand why it is suggested that the Parliament of a sovereign country should be asked to refer to an advisory, supra-national and unauthorized body in St. Petersburg. What are the normative consequences, I don't talk about practical, from the fact that the Supreme Council will address this issue? I think we need to improve our own normative base. And I don't think that's appropriate for the status of the Supreme Council to take such a statement. I call for a vote against the whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u19	Thank you. Victor Terrence, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u20	Victor Terrence, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we did not see this draft decree. This is an extremely important document. And Kirilenko is absolutely right because we, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, can we address an organ that is not equivalent to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like to suggest we stay in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u21	Thank you. Well, there is a committee, not me. I am voting on the whole draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the head of the Council of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States. [[No. 3515]] [[10:15:21]] For 280 Decision taken. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the preparation of a single economic space for Ukraine's Republic of Belarus, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Kazakhstan, for inclusion in the agenda. What you're yelling at, you need to pick up the schedule, see. Wait, what am I defining? About getting into the daytime. Wait, what motives do we include in the agenda? Wait, please. [[10:16:10]] For 261 Decision taken. It's from the Cherniak procedure. Peacemaker, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u22	I don't understand where I'm going, and where we're going if the MP's asking for words for reasons they don't give him. I wanted to say why I wouldn't vote. The head of the Supreme Council didn't give me a word on this. It's not normal. Now essentially. The very concept of "one economic space" is not valid from a scientific or a political point of view. It allows for different interpretations. The correct term is "free economic zone." If we want to pave the way for the creation of the Soviet Union, let's make these decisions, let's say frankly, directly and honestly, where we're going. If we're going to destroy the state, let's say that. The president is asking about the free economic zone. It's okay. Let's go this way, not make decisions about uncertain and incorrect political terms of "the only economic space". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u23	Igor Ostasz. Andrew Schlell. One thing at a time, not all of us. One of the factions is enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u24	Igor Ostash, Our Ukraine, Reform and Order Party. Dear colleagues! Again, we are in violation of the Rules. The previous decision was made practically without discussion, although there were very serious warnings about voting the previous proposal, because we are really taking over executive functions and we know that our task is to ratify international agreements. If such an international organization is created, then we will decide on the issue of ratification. Now, let's talk about the questions that are being considered. Now it's just a discussion of the so-called only economic space and the next round of negotiations will be held in June with the participation of the 4 countries in Kiev. And that's why it's too early to talk about the shape of this organization at all, because there are a lot of contradictions between those who enter the so-called only economic space. So there is a proposal to defer consideration of this issue until the conclusion of the negotiations of the 4 countries on the real format and the real meaning of what is called the only economic space. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u25	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u26	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I think that talking about shared economic space in general is not appropriate. It's an indefinite term. We, the Supreme Council, did not even discuss or consider the term. We can talk about trade relations and so on. But if we're talking about common economic space, let's first vote on this law. Then we vote on the law on the elimination of Ukraine, about the membership of Russia and everything, and I think they'll be happy to vote for that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u27	Yes, please, Viacheslav Kirilenko. And we'll be in the middle of a discussion. to the information.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u28	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! I now want to address most of the representatives of the majority, because if we approve such a statement, we are severely limiting the scope for the manoeuvre of the government of Yanukovic and of the President of Ukraine. Since negotiations are currently under way on a single economic space on the one hand, entering the World Trade Organization, on the other hand. Once the government and the President have agreed at the highest level, the Supreme Council will be able to review the package of documents and ratify them or not ratify them. This is going to be our task and our function. And now we're adopting a political statement, thereby impeding the government to negotiate equitablely on creating a free economic zone, a regime of free trade that is favourable to Ukraine, by submitting an already prepared document that essentially limits Ukraine's national interests. I would like to draw attention to these arguments by the majority in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not vote in this regard in favour of the proposed draft ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u29	Oleg Zarubinski. Dear colleagues, we've already taken away the motive. Five minutes have passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u30	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs. The President of Ukraine has made it absolutely clear that the urgent and pressing problems for Ukraine today are the creation of a free trade zone in the SND countries, including with Russia and joining the World Trade Organization. I think that all the efforts of parliamentarians, all the efforts of the Ukrainian society must be directed to implement these really beneficial actions for Ukraine, let's say. And that's why it's completely illogical to accept statements in advance today for reasons not yet defined by the treaty or by any other form. Let's focus on the World Trade Organization and the Free Trade Zone with Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u31	I'm asking the committee, the committee to give its opinion, and then we'll be determined. The committee. Stanislav Telisforovich, who will be speaking from the committee? Just a minute. Reporter, please, Mironenko. From the committee. Turn on the microphone of the people’s MP Mironka, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u32	Respectable compatriots! Fifth constituency, Mironenko, Communist faction. And I'm speaking in general from the committee. The economic gap with Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan and other countries has greatly contributed to the reduction in the share of machinery from 30 per cent to 10 per cent, the light industry from 10 per cent to 1 per cent, to a significant reduction in advanced technology industries: e-industry has declined 100 times! The compromise proposed to your attention is, I stress, a compromise draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation of a single economic space for Ukraine, the Republic of Belarus, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Kazakhstan, finalized, taking into account the proposals made by the deputies of various factions, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, supported by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, aimed at restoring and developing Ukraine's beneficial economic ties, economic development, raising the standard of living of our people. The creation of a single economic space will ensure the stability of markets, commodity markets, increase the profitability of enterprises, increase access to budgets at all levels, and ensure a structural restructuring of the economy. And on this basis, improve the competitiveness of our domestic enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u33	Thank you. Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u34	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I still have a lot of respect for my colleague Mironka, but he's not the Chief of Government yet. I don't understand how this can be voted on without the government's point of view. Today, the government is negotiating to join the WTO, today the government is negotiating a World Bank loan, and we are making such a decision without the government's opinion. These are strategic questions! So I ask or give, let the government express its point of view, whether it has something to do with what it thinks from this point of view. You can't do that! The MP asked a strategic question, and we took it, and we started voting. Thank you. I'm asking you to take that question down now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u35	I agree with you, but we have already voted to make decisions. I agree with you. But the committee made decisions, too, not me. Please, Ivan Alexandrovich, don't be smart! Please, Lukyanenko Leukko and we will vote. All of it!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u36	Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party, Yulia Timoshenko faction Ladies and gentlemen, I think we got a little hot and voted for something we couldn't vote for without a serious discussion. One is the creation of a common area of trade, and another is the creation of a common economic space. Creating a common economic space is the way to create the Soviet Union. Such a decision cannot be made without serious consideration of it in substance. Another completely commercial thing. We're for trading and expanding it and so on. But it's not possible to create a common economic space -- it's a return to the Soviet Union. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I propose that we bring this up for further discussion, and only after a serious discussion will we be able to put this question to a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u37	I am voting on the basis of a draft decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the creation of a single economic space for Ukraine, the Republic of Belarus, the Russian Federation and the Republic of Kazakhstan. [[10:26:14]] For 255 [[Applause]] What are the observations, additions? Please, Roman Zvarich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u38	Roman Zvaric, "Our Ukraine" faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. I formally propose to delete the second and third paragraphs in the application. Then this statement has some hands and legs, and she understands. Otherwise, the second paragraph contradicts the fourth paragraph. So I suggest you remove the second and third paragraphs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u39	I'm voting on the deletion of the second and third paragraphs of the draft statement. [[10:27:17]] For-141 The decision is not taken. What are some other additions? I'm voting on the acceptance of the application. draft decree as a whole as a decree, this is number 3210. [[10:27:42]] For 266 It's been decided. The factions, please. A draft decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments, governments and the public of the European States is under consideration. We need to put this in the agenda first. That is why I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments, governments and the public of the European States. [[10:28:28]] For 313 It's on. The chairman of the committee, please briefly, made it necessary to accept the appropriate address.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! In these days an extraordinary event is taking place in our country, attended the Fifth All - European Conference of Environment Ministers, an environment for Europe. It is very honorable for Ukraine to have about 4,000 delegates present, and the conference is quite successful. Today at 16 p.m., there will be some members of the organization in the parliament walls. And we've decided that it's also appropriate to look to parliamentarians, governments and the public of European states. We received a number of suggestions from deputies, and today we have an offer from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. All the suggestions we've taken into account and we suggest you support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u41	I'm voting on the adoption of the Supreme Council's draft regulation on the referral of the Supreme Council to parliaments, governments and the public of the European States. [[10:29:52]] For three hundred Decision taken. What are additions, observations, warnings? Yuri Carmazin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u42	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Since there is a very important issue that has political implications and economic implications, it is that Ukraine is actually blocking its exit to the Danube. All majors are moving to Romania. I'd like the government to work here, including the Ministry of Transport, the Minister of Transport of Kippa, and we with you, and the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Use to record, so that they don't now apply a moratorium on laying down those jobs, developing them in our territory, or the Danube canals, as it's called, clearing them.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u43	Make an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u44	Which is not in the interests of the state of Ukraine. That is, a moratorium on such purely populist, ecological statements that do not suit the economic interests of Ukraine. That's my fix.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u45	Dear National Deputies! Since the amendment is unclear, it cannot be put to the vote. I am voting for the adoption of a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments, governments and public opinion of the European States. [[10:31:45]] For 371 It's been decided. I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Order for Ukraine's off-limits Day with the agenda of the Food Security of the State. Government Day. I'll do it again. May I have your attention, please? Government Day of Ukraine. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of the Order on the conduct of the extraordinary day of the Government of Ukraine with the agenda of the Food Security of the State. This is the project that we discussed, National Deputy Timoshenko. [[10:32:39]] For-188. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Yuri Carmazin with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u46	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Solidarity." Ladies and gentlemen, I now address representatives of the so-called majority. Don't you understand that the food security of the state is today the issue of the survival of this nation. Don't you understand that it's still impossible to drive a corkscrew in a scheme without VAT? I'm going to the oligaric factions. Please, let's hear this question, it's a question of the survival of the nation. When it comes to raising prices for everything in the country: bread, bread, bread, and so on, you will be asked, and you will say that we did not want to prepare. Let's re-vote this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u47	Thank you. I am voting for inclusion in the agenda, please note, the draft decree for the creation of a special temporary commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to monitor the rule of law in the interim election of the Ukrainian National Deputies in the one-man election district number 206 Chernigiv Region on June 8, 2003 for inclusion in the agenda. [[10:34:28]] For 186 Questions are not included in the agenda. Vladimir Lechchenko with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u48	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The point is that since the beginning of the election process in Chernigov, in District 206, virtually all the subjects of the electoral process have been in violation of electoral law. That's why we, the Supreme Council, would have to apply our monitoring function as provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine and create this commission. I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put the vote again. The MPs probably didn't get it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u49	Please, Boris Bespali. The MPs realized that you were negotiating with factions to find out what was going on, and I think I got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u50	Boris Bespali. In this case, I am acting as secretary to the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. This question was raised on the last Thursday, but then it was put off to be considered by the committee. Yesterday the committee considered this proposal, one withheld, all the other members of the committee, despite various MP factions supported the initiative. And I'm addressing all of our colleagues from both the majority and the minority. The Constitution states that in order to form a special commission, quite a third of the votes are cast. I think it would be very correct for most people not to limit the right to create such a control committee, because that confirmed the legitimacy of the elections. I don't think a commission like that would have bothered anyone, the more elections are controlled, the more confidence in their results. So I'd like to now turn to the non-voting members of the factions to vote in favour of joining the agenda for creating this commission and to add from there, to propose members.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u51	I am. Dear colleagues! I'm asking the faction leaders, find out between you, consult. When you agree, I'll put it to a vote. Once again, I don't want to put the vote to a standstill. The question is being considered about the statement made by the Stanicki People's Deputy to elect him as a member of the Committee on Budget Affairs. Valentin Grigorovich Matviev, head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! The Committee considered the statement of the National Deputy Stanecko and, taking into account that the quota for representation of the factions of the political parties and entrepreneurs of Ukraine and Trudov Ukraine, which includes the National Deputy Stanecko, exceeds the quota of almost three times, the Committee decided not to support the application of the National Deputy Stanecko to elect him as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council for budgetary matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u53	Dear colleagues! The committee's decision has been proved to you, but according to the Rules, I'm voting first on the statement of the national MP Stanecki. I am voting on the question of the inclusion of the national deputy Stanecki in the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[10:38:34]] For 172 The decision is not taken. The committee's decision remains. A draft regulation on changes in the composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the Lebedov member of the Committee on European Integration is under consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The Committee, after considering the statement made by the People's Deputy of Lebedivsky and considering that the quota for the representation of the faction of "Our Ukraine" on the committee to which the People's Deputy of Lebedivsky goes, does not exceed the budget, the Committee decided to support the application made by the People's Deputy and to make an appropriate draft decision on changes in the composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council for consideration by the Supreme Council. It refers to his election as a member of the Committee on European Integration, exempting him from the responsibilities of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote the bill of amendment of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is number 3529, which has just been reported by the chairman of the committee. [[10:40:15]] For-286 Decision taken. A draft Ordinance on the inclusion of Ukraine's Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council on draft laws amending the Constitution of the Ukrainian People's Deputies Shufreč and Potapova is under consideration. Valentin Grigorovich Matviev, head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u56	Thank you. The Committee considered the draft regulation number 3313 and, taking into account the fact that the agreed proportionality of representation of the respective MPs in the temporary special commission was maintained, the proposal is made to recommend to the Supreme Council that the matter be included. We've already done it. And to support the decision to be included in the Temporary Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of People's Deputies of Ukraine, Sufrich and Potapova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u57	I am voting on a draft corresponding decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine No. 3313 on the inclusion of the temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the drafting of the laws of Ukraine amending the Constitution of the People's Deputies of Ukraine Shufreč and Potapova. [[10:42:02]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u58	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, and here is 3313-1, I don't understand why the head of the committee reported to her -- a draft decree for the inclusion of another third national MP. If the committee disagrees, that doesn't mean it shouldn't be considered -- 3313-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u59	Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u60	The committee did not consider any other applications. This is only about draft Decree No. 3313 concerning the national deputies Shufrich and Potapova. The quantity of the faction of the SDPU is two people's deputies in this faction. Now there's a national MP working. A second member of the national parliament, Shufrich, is proposed. As for Potapov Vasil Ivanovich. The "European Choice" faction has not yet been represented on this committee. Other draft decrees and statements by national deputies to the committee have not yet been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u61	Dear people's deputies, let's see, let's bring it in. Today, life does not end. There won't be a vote. Calm down. We need to vote now. I say it again, then I'm forced to vote it all out. Do you understand the situation you're putting me in? I'm telling you again, you're forcing me to vote now. Next time we'll vote. The draft decree amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order on members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatisation is being announced for consideration. Please, Valentina Petrovna. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to understand, vote consciously. If we do this, I will be forced to re-vote all the decisions. Do you understand or not? Do you need to be told long?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u62	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, the Special Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council consists of 15 people. In accordance with article 5 of the Act on Privatization of State Property and Article 10 of the quota, the quota is determined according to the representation of the faction. In view of the fact that the MP Melniczuk Valentin Vasilovich, the representative of the Faction of the SDPU(o) is proposed by the faction of the Faction of Kravczuk, Bogatirov, Hubski, Tolstouchov, Gavriš and Potapova, please support the draft Decision No. 3409 on the inclusion of the Special Control Board of the Gorbatov Valerija Mironovich. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u63	I'm voting on the Supreme Council's decision to amend the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the members of the Special Supervisory Board of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on privatization. Number 3409. [[10:46:06]] For 287 Decision taken. A draft regulation on the creation of a special parliamentary-government commission from a comprehensive study and a generalization of the experience of the operation of special free economic zones and areas of priority development with a special investment regime is under consideration. Finished.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u64	Gurenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, head of the committee. In the process of processing, proposals were made regarding the personal composition of the commission of half of these proposals, even more than 70 percent, taken into account, and the committee tried to follow the principle, not only tried, but also followed the principle of proportional representation. But what I'm saying is, my dear colleagues, that we have agreed with you that the parity of the Supreme Council on this committee is 12 people's deputies. We have 28 committees, factions and groups, as I recall, about 20, so not all of them, of course, fell into this committee. I would like to support the decision of the committee that you have on your hands, and I think it takes into account all possible and available suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u65	Stanisław Ivanovich, is that how we base it?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u66	A second-read vote. For acceptance as a foundation and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u67	National Deputy Kosinov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u68	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished deputies! The fact is that the establishment of this commission violates the principle of proportional representation of MP factions and groups, representations from non-fractional factions. That is why I believe it is necessary to either change the list that has been entered. either enter the commission or send the order for finalization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u69	The committee proposes to adopt a draft decision. I'm asking the people's deputies to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u70	Mikola Oneschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u71	The Honourable Stanislav Ivanovich, a faction of the political Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Hard Ukraine, recommended two persons to be part of the commission, particularly the National Deputies of Vassadze and Long. Please inform the committee of the final decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u72	I want to read it if you don't have that kind of commission. Gurenko, Darling, I'm nameless and fatherless, with your permission. Vasjunk, Skomarovsky, Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich, Olijnik Petr Mihajlovich, Bičkov, Konovaluk Valerij Ilich, Ivancho, Landik, Tsusko, Dobkin, are 12 people. I'd like to support this composition of the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u73	A Turk. There's someone out there, respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u74	Dear Chief, Honourable Reporter! I'm going to remind you that really from each faction there should be representatives, and so I'm asking you to bring from our faction the National Deputy of School Andriy Vasilovich to the membership of this commission. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u75	Please, Stanislav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u76	Let the deputies vote, I say again that on the first reading we agreed that the 12 national deputies are part of this commission. I'm reminding the committees of 28 again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u77	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Because according to the Rules and tradition, the Special Commission and the Temporary Commission should include people in proportion to all factions. And there is a tradition that representatives of all the factions present in the Supreme Council will be represented. I'm proposing from the faction of the People's Democratic Party that this commission be joined by Deputy Petrov Oleg Volodymyrovich, who will work well for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u79	I reiterate the attention of the people's deputies that we are not voting on a special parliamentary commission, we are agreeing with you today on the parliamentary side of a joint parliamentary-government commission. It's absolutely, as they say, a special case. And I suggested that the commission start working and perform control functions from the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u80	I'm voting on the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the creation of a joint parliamentary-government commission with a comprehensive study on the generalization of the experience of the operation of special free economic zones and areas of priority development with a special investment regime. This is 3391. A committee proposal. [[10:51:22]] For 258. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u81	Thank you. And I would like to accept, support the proposal of the committee on draft regulation 3392 on the position of this committee. There is a note of our legal administration. We have considered them, and we believe that we can accept the project that the committee is proposing for your consideration, 3392. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u82	I am voting on the adoption of a decision on a joint parliamentary government commission with a comprehensive study and a generalization of the experience of the operation of special free economic zones and areas of priority development with a special regime of investment activity. This is a position on this commission. Number 3392. [[10:52:23]] For three hundred Decision taken. Please, Stanislaw Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Science and Education strongly requests that you, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, and all members of the National Deputies now vote in the first reading of Act 3216 amending and supplementing some of the legislative acts on the promotion of trade and education. I will not repeat the situation there. You and I discussed this two months ago at the bottom of the government. I'm going to say that the situation is really, really critical. So the committee, it's hand-in-hand, it's offered a series of changes, all the factions have discussed, there's a point, but the vast majority support this bill, because it's about amending the Law on Education, on Occupational Education, on Energy, on Income, and so on. We offer to accept in the first reading, and all the comments are included. Well, Adam Martinyuk, as if he were in the daytime. Hope, in fact. We've already voted it. Most factions vote in favour, and those remarks that were, let's say, from "regions," we're in the second reading. There is a proposal to vote in favour. Law 3216, we put it in the agenda, to amend some of the legislation on vocational and technical education. The law was passed out three months ago. About vocational and technical education.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u84	I'm voting for the adoption of draft law number 3216, which was reported by our colleague Nikolaynko. [[10:54:29]] For 409 Decision taken. Please, Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u85	Dear National Deputies! The Supreme Council voted to include in the agenda a daily decision on the allocation of funds from the Cabinet of Ministers reserve fund to eliminate the consequences of the natural disaster, which took place on May 3, this year in the Lviv region. You know that on May 3, about 3,000 houses, 17 schools, hospitals, and cultural buildings were destroyed and damaged. There is a request to vote on this decree, which is already in order of the day. Request for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u86	Is there no objection? Please, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u87	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I don't mind taking this decision. But you and I just adopted a whole section of documents that we put into the agenda. Now we're going to go one by one, and we're going to put the documents that go on the other, the third reading, and so on. Not crazy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u88	I agree with you. But, dear fellows. To now balance the situation in the session room, I am voting on the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to allocate funds from the Cabinet of Ministers' reserve fund to eliminate the consequences of the disaster, which occurred on May 3, 2003, in the Lviv region. This is 3514. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no money in there. Actually, it's not about the money. There are recommendations for the Cabinet of Ministers. This document is given to you. It's not about the money. [[10:56:41]] For 411 Please, the Turk Alexander. One minute, Turk from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u89	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Our faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, is once again asking you to vote on the Government Day -- the extraordinary Government Day -- for the food security of the state. Dear colleagues! The situation in Ukraine is critical. There's no grain. There goes the chaotic purchase of grain abroad. In the fall, when we don't analyze the situation today and take serious measures, there will be a Cossack sitting in prison like a gunman. They will be made extreme again, and then you will complain about your life. I ask you to support this decision, let's deal with the situation in the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u90	Thank you. I'm asking the secretary to make decisions that we didn't vote on, and in order to keep clean, I'm going to put them all to a vote that we didn't vote on after the break. I won't put one. Please, the people's deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u91	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We have a very important fateful issue on our agenda today. It's also a budget, it's a tax law for individuals. Vladimir Mihajlovich, let us move away from this position when we now stand by one bill and plan to go on the basis of the agenda that exists and to consider issues in the working plan that has been approved. Because that way we'll just get confused and bring our work to nowhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u92	Thank you. I fully support you. Dear colleagues! Please don't insist on voting on the bill outside the plan. A draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on intellectual property is being announced for consideration. Second reading. Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov, please. Now it's going to be the First Vice Prime Minister and Head of the Budget Committee, then we're going to be defined. Please. Mikhail Kuzmich, let's go straight to the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u93	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, there were 160 amendments to this law. These are taken into account in whole, in part - 11 and not counted - 7. The offer is perhaps to follow what part?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, who insists on their amendments that have not been taken into account? There aren't any? I am voting on the second reading of the draft law amending certain laws on intellectual property. Please vote. [[11:00:13]] For 393 Given such unanimity, we have reason to propose that this law be adopted as a whole as a law, I ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u95	The offer is "for", you can take it. [[11:00:39]] For 396 The law has been passed, thank you. A draft law on electronic documents and electronic documentation is being announced for consideration. Third reading. Mikhail Kuzmich, you are also the author here. Please. So this is where all the adjustments are accounted for, I'm looking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, all the amendments that have been almost taken into account have been quite thorough. It seems to me that if I need any comments or arguments to be made by the Chief Legal Authority, I can bring them up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u97	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u98	But I think we can vote on these documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, I think you've made sure that all the amendments you've made are taken into account. Therefore, we have every reason to put him to the vote in the third reading and generally as a law. Is there no objection? I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law on Electronic Documents and Electronic Documents for adoption in the third reading and generally as a law. Please vote. [[11:02:32]] For 374 The law is passed. Thank you. The draft Law on Electronic Digital Signature is announced for consideration. [[second reading]] Please, Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u100	This law is also well prepared and many of the national MPs have been familiarized with the practice of digital electronic signatures that have been shown here. There's a reference to the rule of law, but there's enough reason for this to be voted on in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u101	Please, Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u102	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine." I think these are very important laws, but there are some things that cause me serious doubts, and this is particularly true of two of my rejected amendments. The first of them is under number 23. I'm pointing out to all colleagues that in this most technological field, what is the management system proposed? The accreditation center of certification, the central certification body, the certification center of the executive body, the controlling body, that is, the building of a bureaucratic superpyrim that is nowhere in the world. And we're just going to turn the work of those who work in these new technologies into total horrors. So I'm proposing, by upholding the law in the second reading, that this point, which is related to my 23rd amendment, should be moved to the third reading to fix the management system in this area. Otherwise, it's just that we're going to have to come back again, but it's under public pressure. So I propose to the committee that we accept this approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u103	Can I have your attention? Boris Yakovitch, you've made a lot of suggestions, and we've taken almost all of them into account. And with regard to 23 suggestions, I think we still need to agree as we are. In the bill, the certifying authority and the certification center, articles 10 and 11, define the full powers of these structures. It can't be the central organs of the executive -- firstly, there are other public authorities, there is a order established by law regarding the powers of the central executive authorities and the position approved by the Cabinet of Ministers or the President. I think, Boris Yakovich, we can still adopt this law today, but we haven't started working with this practice yet. I have a digital signature, although it's said that we're working the paperwork at all, but there was no law. I mean, I still insist on what we, the committee, have approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u104	I'll put it to a vote. Just a minute. The amendment was, you made the argument, we'll put it to the vote. National MP Bespallius insists that we vote on Amendment 23, this is page 5. So I put her to a vote, this amendment. Amendment 23, page 5. [[11:06:15.]] For 193 Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u105	At least Boris Yakovitch did a lot of work in the first place.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u106	It's a committee for cooperation. In fact, dozens of my proposals are included here. I think the committee is now counting another one that's just, I think, accidentally been rejected. That's the thing. This is about the 128th amendment. And it is predicted that in the event of failure to perform duties, detection of violations, and so forth, violators bear the responsibility provided for by legislation. I proposed the law, and it's far from technical regulation, because criminal, civil and administrative responsibility is determined solely by law. It's not up to the officials themselves. And legislation is a very broad concept that includes acts and the Cabinet of Ministers, central authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u107	I think we can agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u108	Boris Jakovic may agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u109	I think the honourable colleagues, no objection, agreed. Yeah, me. Yes, we agreed on an editorial basis. For the Secretariat, we'll see that. Please, Stanislaw Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u110	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am also addressing my colleague Boris Bespalogo, and we have studied with him the practice of introducing an electronic digital signature, such as, say, the European Society, Spain. And he and I saw that without the control bodies that were discussed today, there is no electronic digital signature. So I propose to uphold this law and vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u111	Yes, who insists on their amendments that have not been taken into account? None. I would like to vote on the second reading of the draft law on electronic digital signature. Please vote. [[11:08:16]] For 386 Decision taken. I'm proposing to the committee that I vote on the adoption of the entire draft law on electronic digital signature as a law. Please vote. [[11:08:42]] For 396 Decision taken. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on "On the National Depository System and the Specificities of the Electronic Exchange of Securities of Ukraine on the protection of shareholders' rights and transparency of the Market Fund" is under consideration. Reporter to the Subcommittee on Economic Policy, National Property Management and Investments, Vladimir Kirilovich Černjak Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u112	Dear colleagues! The Economic Policy Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft law on second reading. The bill is small and includes only two amendments. Three suggestions, remarks, came to the committee. Two of Burjak's national deputies and one of Akopian and Sharov's national deputies. All of these proposals are taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u113	Dear colleagues! We have every reason to put to the vote a second reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Depository System and the characteristics of the electronic circulation of securities in Ukraine on the protection of shareholders' rights and on the transparency of the stock market." Please vote. [[11:10:16]] For 391 Decision taken. On the proposal of the committee, I am voting on the adoption of this bill as a whole, as a law, number 2103. Please vote. [[11:10:40]] For 398 The law is passed. A draft Law amending article 64 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Environment on the Red Book of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Second reading. Reporter to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. Ivan Alexandrovich Hare. Is there Ivan Alexanderovich? Please, head of the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, this is one page, and I'm asking you, all the suggestions are taken into account, the proposals are here and the committee. Accept it as a law as a whole. Is there no objection? I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the draft Law amending article 64 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Environment in respect of the Red Book of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:11:57]] For 406 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act on the calculation of pensions and post-retirement benefits is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag. Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the essence of the legislation. It is suggested that if a person does not retire when he reaches retirement age and continues to work, he will receive a 10 per cent pension allowance each year. Thus, according to existing legislation, a person who has reached retirement age and who continues to work may receive up to 40 per cent of the pension allowance if he has left, so to speak, with the age of retirement. The upper edge is not more than 40 per cent. So all the suggestions that have been made on this subject, if they fit in, are accepted. Next moment. A slightly longer period for which the pension is calculated. We believe that the Committee proposes that we vote in second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! Who insists on their amendments that have not been taken into account? I can't see. I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, as a law, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act on the calculation of pensions and post-retirement benefits. Please vote. [[11:13:45]] For 389 The law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u116	Thank you. The Committee proposes as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u117	We have already voted in the second reading and in general as a law. Thank you. The draft Law on Reconstruction and Exploitation on the Pay Road of Kiev-Odes on the Area from Jaskov to Red Label is being announced for consideration. [[second reading]] Rapporteur of the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communiqué Affairs and Communications of the Desert Tenko Valerij Pavlovich. Is there a reporter? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u118	Dear colleagues! We have considered this issue on the Committee and ask that it be adopted on second reading. The observations, which were actually adopted as a basis, were therefore considered by the Committee to be adopted on second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u119	Boris Bespali. Then Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u120	Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine. Our faction generally supports the idea of this bill, but we have a strong request from you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, and that's why. The bill was considered only a week ago. Not even all the suggestions that came to him are included in the comparative table. Moreover, there are serious and substantive observations made by the General Legal Authority. If we vote it now, we'll have to go back to this bill in a week or two. The pace of road construction is not affected. So I just have a big request for you. In accordance with the Rules, postpone the voting on this bill to the next day of the vote. This will be in line with the Rules and then it will pass without a hitch. Otherwise we can just create a problem. It's just wrong to vote a week ago and all of a sudden right now, considering that there are significant remarks and it's about substantial money here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u121	Boris Bespalloy, I have great respect for you, you know, and to your opinion, but it really plays a very big "royal" today. The time frame for building this road is very narrow and we would like again, given that it has been largely discussed over the past six months and everything is absolutely clear on this road. And the issue of financing and everything else was one of the main issues. Therefore, we have looked carefully at the committee and still ask that it be adopted today on second reading in connection with the short construction time frame.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u122	Valerius Assadchev. Then we'll ask for the Minister's argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u123	Thank you. There is my amendment, which is rejected, but the amendment is very important, and I would like it voted. The point is that the construction of this road will take credit. So I wouldn't want the people of Ukraine to be counted for these loans. So I wrote that these loans can't be guaranteed by the state. Please take it, build it, let it be paid, it's normal. But the state of guarantee can't give, because it's going to be different what John Diram is -- someone took it, took it, and now it's on the government's debt and actually the pensioners are accounted for. So I would very much like this amendment to be voted on right now. Otherwise it could be said that it would be an affair, not a road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u124	Here we have also considered this amendment. There is Demishkan, Ukravtodor, leader of Ukraine, and the Minister of Transport, Kirpa Gergiy Nikolayevich, is present. I think they'll be able to answer those questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u125	Yes, please, Minister Kirpa Georgiy Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, we'd like to ask you to make a decision today as experimental on this road. First of all, don't waste time. The thing is, every day, we want to build this road by the end of the year, before the ice cream starts. It's an experimental road and legislation that needs to be sustained in the process of obtaining loans, and it's done. And if there's any need and any correction is still life, we're going to make adjustments on the following roads. As far as guarantees are concerned, I would ask you not to ask such a clear question, because the guarantee government does not give, the guarantee is given by the Minister of Transport, who. I'm telling you what. We're lending through the Ministry of Transport today and only 25 percent, the rest of the money -- that's the money we're going to get at the expense of the investment. In order to make investments, however, it is necessary to add to the law today as an experiment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u127	Thank you. I bet one minute, anyway, I was. National MP Assadchev insisted on the amendment, let's vote, and then let's move on. I'm putting to the vote amendment number one, this is page three, the national deputy of Assadchevch. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:19:53]] For-125 Not accepted. Please, Vladimir Pehota, then Joseph of Winsky. As amended, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u128	I'd like to raise questions about the quality of our roads. Then, when it comes to building a road, we have a long argument and a lengthy decision - making process. And when it's autumn winter, we start building the road. And that's why we have all our vans and all our roads away from European level. So I would think that we should support, vote. Because it's an experimental road, it's a road that can, in principle, be a reference for building our highways in Ukraine. So I ask you to vote and not delay so that we don't get involved in the autumn-winter building of this road.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u129	Thank you. Joseph of Viennese, let us be specific about the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u130	Wynski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. There's no experiment. On the public road, people will pay money for the passage. That's why I have this question. What an opportunity it will be for people who do not have money to pay for their travel along the Ukrainian road to get out of the city of Kiev to Odessa. Is this going to have to go through Winnitz or through Dnipropetrovsk then? Or how will those people go to Odessa? Please state clearly how much it will cost on this road. And the people who don't have the money to pay for it, how do they have to go to Odessa?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u131	I think if you've read the bill carefully, it's clearly written that as long as there's no bypass road parallel to that, there won't be any payment, and that's reflected in the bill, this time. As reflected in the law on road construction on concessional grounds. That's the first one. And the second. Already responding to the question that Boris Bespaly has the right to take a decision, regardless of procedural issues and so on. At the cost, I think there will be further clarifications, but the law also defines them.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u132	I'm voting on the second reading of the draft law on reconstruction and exploitation on the paid basis of the Kiev-Odessa road in the area from Jashkov to the Red Label. Please vote. [[11:22:44]] For 353
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u133	That's all right, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u134	No, should we put it all together? I'm voting on the adoption of this bill as a law as a whole. This is 3296-d. Please vote in general as a law. [[11:23:10]] For three hundred The law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u136	A draft law on the income tax of natural persons is being announced for consideration. Reporter: Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Terjehin Sergey Anatoliyovich. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u137	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Parliament is considering a draft law on the income tax of individuals on the third reading. For the first time, I'll remind you, this project was introduced back in the year 95. Regrettably, his position remains only a dream for our citizens. I would like to remind you that when the project was adopted on second reading, the Supreme Council decided to transfer a series of articles to the third reading and to perform a thorough legal revision of the text. In particular, for the third reading, such sexes or their separate standards were applied to interest taxation, dividends or royalty taxes, profits or prizes, long-term life insurance or non-state pension insurance contracts, mortgage, property sales, inheritance or donations, tax procedures for the budget, sources of budgetary compensation, rules to compensate for the loss of taxes on military personnel or guards and taxes on coal obtained free of charge under article 43 of the Ukrainian Mining Code. As a result of the work carried out by the Committee on Finance and Banking at an expanded meeting held yesterday in Parliament walls, the presence of the representatives of Kabmin in the person of First Deputy Prime Minister Azarov, the Minister of Economy, the representatives of Nazbank, other ministries, a number of entrepreneurial organizations, independent audiences and members of our committee, it was decided to recommend this law for adoption in the third reading and in general. I'm going to remind you of the content that we're now offered in the articles that we're referring to in the third reading. The first amendment is interest tax. There has been a compromise between governments, the Committee and the Supreme Council that interest rate taxation at 5 percent will be introduced only as of 1 January 2005, i.e. with deferred taxes. The same applies to mortgage taxes, real estate transactions, inheritances, or donations. Everything goes back to January 1, 2005, and we'll see how the new rules of the Civil Code work, which, you know, will come into force next year, and if necessary, we'll change this law if there's any contradiction. The tax procedure for the budget was removed from the law and transferred to the budget code. Imported coal tax benefits. In total, about 400 lines have been received, most of them counted. So we can either go in every direction, or we can make this decision, as fully consistent with the government. And I would especially like to point out two things. So this is a very fruitful work done by the Kuzmuk People's Deputy to make up for the possible loss of military personnel. And I would also like to point out the Pavlovsky deputy who made a good offer of non-taxation of technical and charitable assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u138	Let's go to the repairs then, shall we?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u139	It's four hours. If we want to do this, let's do it for four hours. The committee and the government have proposed to vote as a comprehensive harmonized document that has a balance in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u140	So let's just say who's just insisting on their amendments specifically, then we're going to be defined. Please, Andrew School. Call immediately what correction and then Turkey’s.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u141	Dear reporter! I want to find out if Volinz's amendment was taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u142	Repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u143	Now let me tell you, the number for Amendment 270 Wolitz, registration card number 403.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u144	270.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u145	Let me see.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u146	I emphasize that according to Ukrainian mining law, coal mining companies give coal free to their workers. However, according to current legislation and this project, the cost of free coal received is included in the income tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u147	What's the amendment number?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u148	I'm sorry. Estimated value of coal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u149	Counted?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u150	The tax revenue of the tax payer is not included in the daily needs of the standards established by the Cabinet of Ministers. Pilga.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u151	Please, Alexander the Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u152	Dear colleagues! This is a very important law because it applies to every citizen of our country. And first of all, this law is important in terms of filling our nation's budget. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm asking your attention because this is a more serious question. What's the problem? Article 5 and 6 of this law, I wonder why the colleagues in the Committee on Budgets don't talk about it, will actually lose 4.5 billion dollars for local budgets. Dear colleagues! I want to remind you who doesn't know the fines of the budget, the citizen's income tax is an exclusively generated tax for local budgets. I mean, 100 percent of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u153	Let's make specific adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u154	I'll make specific amendments, that's a serious question, Vladimir Mikhailovich. That's why we're putting all the economic weight of this law on local budgets. That is why I made an amendment, Vladimir Mikhailovich and the honourable Mr. Teryohin, to repeal the 5th and 6th articles of this law. And because of that, it's possible to reduce the tax rate from 13 to 10 percent, that was my amendment. Unfortunately, it is not included in the table and I do not understand why. I'm asking you to give me an answer, include my amendment and vote. 10 percent of taxes, and at the same time, articles 5 and 6 can be cancelled. Otherwise, we'll destroy the local budgets all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u155	Thank you. I would like to advise the distinguished Mr. Turkinov to look into the Rules where there are deadlines for making appropriate proposals and rights. If Mr. Turkinov sent his amendments to the committee yesterday, clearly we have no longer included the ride because all the lines set by our Rules and decisions of the Supreme Council have passed. Regarding what Mr. Turkinov said in fact. First. Mr. Turkinov probably didn't count it. The total loss from this budget when it's introduced, we have to be conscious, we've reduced by 5 percent the approximately effective tax rate, today 16.8, and we're reducing to 11 roughly, well, 13 minus the social benefits. So the total loss per year is planned for about 550 million dollars, if there is no legalization. But we accept this law for what? To fight the shadow, right? And along with Deputy Kirichenko's bill for the introduction of a single social tax, we're going to do a complex repair of the Turk's. I'm sorry, in fact, that Turkov is proposing to cancel. Article 6 "Social tax benefit, untaxed minimum." We can afford to cancel an untaxed minimum today. What are we talking about? Article 5, Tax Credit, medical expenses, education, housing for the underprivileged. Can we afford that? I don't think so. So I would like to support our agreed position with the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u156	So what do we vote in the third reading?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u157	Our proposal is to vote on the third reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u158	Assadchev, please, what's the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u159	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have no change. But since the reporter said it was agreed with the government and Mikola Janovich came, I would very much like Mikola Janović to confirm now that the government and Minfin support this law. Because it's not 500 million, it's only 2 billion in the first year, it's 3 billion in the second year. If the government backs up, there's no question, he's going to form a budget. We'll vote then.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u160	Mikola Janović, the draft Income Tax Act is supported by the government?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u161	The draft was considered in full yesterday by the Conciliation Commission and the Government in this version, which is what the law supports.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u162	Thank you. I'll put it to a vote. What is the correction? Please cancel the vote. Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I actually have 147 rejected and a number of other amendments. But I wanted to move away from the first vice prime minister's observation. The point is, on one of the round tables, I figured in the right column, that's what I did. There are 287 times the parentheses are used. That is, in editorial terms, this law is directed at natural persons. He still has to be clear not only, let's say, tax collectors, professionals and so on. That's why I have a question for the committee. How, though, can it be simplified without even changing the rules of this law in such a way that it is clearly interpreted? Otherwise, we follow Napoleon's formula, which required that he write the laws briefly and vaguely, and we wrote it very long and very vaguely. This is a general request to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u164	In tax law, there are fixed terms, let's say what the MP Bespali says. Goods, in sacks of robots, services. Everyone's used to it. Deputy Bespali offers to remove the braces in ten places. If this is so important, honourable MP Bespaly, I would ask the Hall to agree that we will conduct the Literation, invite the lawyers from our Legal Office to complete, as we have done with the Civil Code, remember, work out legal and literaryly, the text correctly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u165	I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law on Income Taxes in the third reading. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u166	Please support 13 percent. [[11:34:20]] For 341 Decision taken. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law on the Income Taxes of Individuals as a whole as a law. This is 1111-D. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u167	Please be supportive. [[11:34:45]] For 352 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u168	I thank all the deputies who have joined this important document, the employees of the apparatus, the Cabinet of Ministers and themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u169	Thank you. A draft Law on Mortgage is being announced for consideration. Report: Victor Kapusdin, the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u170	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. We are now approaching a very important law that regulates a very serious, very important segment of the financial market that we discussed in the first reading, and it was adopted. Since the first reading of the bill, 134 amendments and proposals have been made to the committee, of which 125 have been accepted, nine have been rejected. Of the nine amendments to the eight amendments rejected, two deputies, Deputy Sharov and Deputy Zwania, and one amendment to Deputy Bokia and Shibka. We can now discuss any rejected amendment and vote in favour if the deputies who sent the amendments to the committee insist. If not, there is a suggestion to vote in favour of this law in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u171	Who insists on amendments from those deputies whose amendments have not been taken into account? None.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u172	Then there is the suggestion to vote in his second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u173	I'm voting on the adoption of the second draft of the Mortgage Act. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:36:40]] For 319 In the second reading, the law was passed. Yes, and we'll pass it on to the third reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u174	We're passing this bill on to the third reading. There are disagreements with the Civil Code, so it needs -- these differences -- to be settled and taken to third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u175	Thank you. A draft law amending article 62 of the Banking and Banking Act is being announced for consideration. Victor Volodymyrovich Kaputin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u176	Dear National Deputies! This is a small law that adds to the Act on Banking and Banking, particularly Article 62. He complements this article with one paragraph that allows the authorities of the State and the executive service to make written demands on the execution of court decisions to obtain information on the state of the accounts of a legal or natural person. The committee supports this bill. We accepted it in the first reading. Two amendments have been made. One amendment of the Vasunika MP, who proposes that after the words "implementation of the decisions of the courts" be deleted, the words "and other organs of the officials" should be deleted. This amendment was resounded at the first reading of the bill and is supported by the committee. The second amendment is an amendment by a member of Onopenka who is rejected by the committee: the words "and other authorities of officials" should be replaced by the words "and other authorities of officials provided for in article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Enforcement." Since the amendment is accepted, we have one amendment of Mr. Onopenek, which is rejected. If Onopenko, a national MP, insists on this amendment, we can vote on it. If not, there is a suggestion to vote in favour of this law in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u177	Yes, Deputy Onopenko does not insist. I'm voting on the adoption of a draft law amending article 62 of the Banking and Banking Act of Ukraine on second reading and generally as a law. Please vote. [[11:39:07]] For 376 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft law amending some of Ukraine’s laws on taxation is being announced for consideration, on transactions carried out at the expense of international technical assistance. The reporter is Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to pay attention, and the faction leaders, we have discussed this issue, the importance of adopting this law in relation to the need for the construction of the Hidden. Please, Burjak is a reporter, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u178	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! For your second reading, you are asked to read Law 2244, which amends certain laws of Ukraine on taxation. It's about the "Hiddenness" object. All the proposals, and there were three of them, they're accounted for. But the biggest discussion was the subject, which is not a zero rate, but a tax exemption. So the committee took this rule into account. But I do know that there may be a separate thought in the room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u179	Andrew Klovev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u180	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! We have an urgent request from the Fuel and Energy Complex Committee that Amendment No. 8 should not be taken into account and vote on the bill as it was voted on first reading. Next time. They are taxed at zero rates on transactions in the sale of goods, raw materials, equipment and equipment, work and services in the customs territory of Ukraine under international technical assistance. The value added tax is paid by the taxpayer, the performer, the contract service with the recipient of international technical assistance, or by a nonresident who has entered into a contract with the recipient. Recovers from the budget during the month following the submission of the tax declaration, provided that documents are properly documented and validated by documentary evidence. Please withdraw the eighth amendment and vote in favour. And vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u181	Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u182	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this is a vote, let's settle this by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u183	So we put the vote on, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u184	We're voting on the committee's position. If it does not take effect, we vote on the amendment of Andrew Petrovich Clovis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u185	Please. Adam Martinyuk. Turn on the microphone. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u186	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. In such a case, an amendment of the national MP is put to the vote. The amendment of a national MP if he does not obtain the required number of votes remains the text that was adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u187	There's no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u188	Then we put the people's deputy to a vote, don't we? Yes, please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, come on, we can confuse ourselves now. The point is that the committee counted the amendment of Deputy Teryochin. The Kluv suggests that this amendment be disregarded. So we should be the first to put Teryochin's amendment to the vote. And if Terhochin’s amendment does not receive the necessary support, it will be removed and taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u190	For the first time, I proposed from this rostrum: the position of the committee, which took into account Teryochin’s position, is voted. But you made a separate point.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u191	I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the People's Deputy Teryochin. [[11:43:23]] For 111 The decision is not taken. The position that was taken in the first reading remains.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u192	in the first reading proposed by Andrew Petrovich. There is a proposal in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u193	We have the opportunity to put it to a vote. Well, the people's deputies are in the hands of repairs, and I can't read everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u194	That's what Andrew Petrovich read right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u195	I'm betting on the vote, my esteemed colleagues, on the acceptance of the second reading. One moment, Pavlovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u196	I'm sorry, it was Michael Pavlovsky's opinion. She was included in the committee and in the position of Sergio Anatoliovich Teryochina, but her hall was not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u197	I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law amending some of Ukraine's laws on taxation of transactions that are carried out at the expense of international technical assistance for adoption on second reading and as a whole as a law. [[11:44:45]] For 359
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u198	We offer to support in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u199	Thus we voted in our second reading and in general as law. The law is passed. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax is being announced for consideration. Reporter to the Committee on Finance and Banking Shepetin Vladimir Leonidovich. Is Vladimir Leonidovich Shepetin? We have to vote here. There was nothing here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u200	Dear colleagues! The law proposes the adoption of a zero. VAT in cash for water and sanitation services. It was adopted on first reading and no comments were received. The Committee proposes to adopt it on third reading and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, you have noted that this bill has not received any attention. That's why I'm voting on the second reading and generally as the bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax. [[11:46:14]] For 387 The law is passed, thank you. A draft Law on Land Administration is being announced for consideration. Reporter: Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Vladimir Aleksniyovich Lechchenko. Please, Vladimir Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u202	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! After considering the bill, 164 comments and suggestions were made to the committee in the first reading. The committee’s consideration includes 86 complete. Partially and editorially counted 37, rejected 41. The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee is proposing to adopt the draft Ukrainian Land Administration Act on second reading and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u203	Dear National Deputies! Who among the national deputies whose amendments are not taken into account insists that we consider them and vote? Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u204	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. I can’t complain that my corrections have not been taken into account, including more than 80 of my corrections. But the unaccounted for is one very important one, and I, as a consistent advocate of local self - rule, insist on it. This is the 59th Amendment, the approval of district councils in the field of land administration. I have proposed to complement with such authorizations the introduction to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the District Councils of Proposals for the Establishment and Change of Cities, Villages, Villages. What's the point? This is when the boundaries of the population point change, not only the population point is involved. For example, the boundaries of the village are increasing, which means that the boundaries of the area are shrinking accordingly. So I think it would be perfectly logical if the district councils had such powers to make proposals. This is not the final decision. And similarly, I'm not going to motivate her, 61. So I think the committee should agree with them. 61 and 59.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u205	In general, the committee rejected this amendment, but let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u206	Dear National Deputies! Did you understand the nature of the correction? It is that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at the invitation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, establishes and changes the boundaries of villages, cities, and villages. Is that correct, Boris Yakovitch? I put to the vote this amendment, the national MP of Bespalogo. [[11:49:06]] For-174 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u207	The 61st is taken accordingly. Who still insists on their amendments? None. I put to the vote the second reading of the draft Law on Land. And then the whole thing, right? Please vote. [[11:49:37]] For 318 Decision taken. I am voting for the proposal of a committee to adopt the entire draft Law on Land Administration as a law. Please vote. [[11:50:01]] For 324 The law is passed. Thank you. The draft Law on the Order of Decommissioning in Nature in the Land Areas of Land-Owners is being announced for consideration. Reporter Leszczenko Vladimir Aleksijovich, head of the subcommittee
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u208	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. After considering the bill, the committee received 25 suggestions and comments from the Ukrainian National Deputies in the first reading, including a total of 20, partially and editorially 2 comments and 3. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations proposes to adopt the bill in second reading and in general. I warn national MPs that this law opens up a green street for trade in land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u209	What are the adjustments that are not included, please? Hennady Andriyovich does not insist. Semenyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u210	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Vladimir Alexiyovich, first of all, I would like to ask you. In the appendix added to the comparative table, the Scientific and Expert Department made very substantial remarks, particularly in the part that the bill is introduced immediately from the date of publication, and the regulations will be introduced in six to eight months. This means that people have to start dividing land in kind, and the legal act and the mechanism will be done in months 5-8 or more. Considering that documents are long accepted. What are the scientific and expert department's observations taken into account? And I want to contact my fellow national deputies. Take a close look at this document. If this is accepted, we will actually build the whole of Ukraine with rings, and there will be a hermitage in all of Ukraine. The Harks will repeat themselves in a better way. Therefore, it is not possible to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u211	The point is that this bill will be put into effect, but it will be implemented after the government has identified the issue of the mechanism for its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u212	Dear National Deputies! I beg your pardon. What's your correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u213	No repairs. I'd like to deny Mrs. Seminouk in that part that she's already in a lot of suspense and she's already out in the flesh.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u214	Thank you. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and in general, as a law, a draft law on the order of separation in kind in the areas of land to owners of land particles, in the second reading and in general, as a law. Number 2026. Please vote. [[11:53:23]] For 114 The decision is not taken. The second one then or what?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u215	The committee suggests that the second reading be read again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u216	I am voting for the second reading of the draft Law on the Order of In-kind Delimitation in the Land Areas to landowners of land-pile. [[11:53:52]] For 264 Decision taken. Draft Act on the organization and conduct of peaceful mass actions and actions in Ukraine. [[resecond reading]] Gennady Josephovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u217	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! We've been looking into the proposal committee of the national deputy Gorbal. Much of them were accepted, and we were even ready to report to the Supreme Council today. But since we have received quite a number of substantial proposals today, I'm asking to move to the next quarter when the vote is due. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u218	The committee's proposal is to postpone consideration until next plenary week. No objections? Then we'll work on it. Re-examination with suggestions. In law with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Ukraine's law to amend some Ukrainian legislation with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 15.11.2002 has been announced for consideration. Reporter - State Secretary of Minsk Rabbit Anatoly Pavlovich
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u219	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! On October 24, 2002, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed a law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts, which came upon the signature of the President of Ukraine, the President returned for reconsideration with such proposals. The main thing is that a number of legislative acts to which amendments are proposed are proposed. In doing so, the names of the ministries that are being proposed to change are that the name of the ministry changes, including the Ministry of Economics, to "The Central Authority of Executives on Economic Policy." In doing so, other ministries are only proposing to clarify their names, i.e. they do not have the same approach to naming ministries. On the other hand, the law under consideration wrongly identifies its own names and the status of the above - mentioned central executive authorities. Why? Because in accordance with article 106, paragraph 15, of the Constitution, Ukraine is referred to the exclusive competence of the President of Ukraine to decide on the creation and reorganization of central executive bodies. It is also seen that certain powers in the field of job security are based on the law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which is also a violation of the constitutional powers of the President of Ukraine. I would like to say that most of the comments that are made to the relevant legislative acts relate to technical and legal issues, i.e. the validity of the legal drafting of the relevant legislative acts. So the President is proposing, first of all, to clarify the legislative acts that are changing. And secondly, make further changes to make this text legally irreprehensible. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u220	You support the proposal that the committee has taken all the President's remarks into account and we can vote in a new edition. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u221	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u222	Have a seat, please. Roman Zvaric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u223	Dear colleagues. The committee considered the matter. Of course, he agrees with the President's proposal, which has just been made by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Justice, because the bill is indeed of a purely legal and technical nature. So it's meant to bring a whole series of bills into line with the Constitution of Ukraine. The law was passed on October 24 for the proposal of our committee. There was a vote, both in the first reading and in general. That's why I'm talking about it. Because I would like to draw the attention of the distinguished national deputies to this situation. The bill was approved exactly as it was filed by the President on October 24. So the Supreme Council hasn't changed a word. In addition, the President vetoes a bill that the Supreme Council has not had any warnings about. Of course, this is a smoker’s situation. And in addition to the fact that the President vetoes a bill he passed that the Supreme Council has not changed a single comedy, the European Integration Committee to promote European integration, also taking into account the fact that the President strongly criticises the committee that we seem to be holding back European integration, we are not going to be offended by the President. We propose to accept the proposals of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u224	Is that a new law?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u225	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, the offer of the Cabinet of Ministers, reported by the representative of Miniustu, is well - known. The committee's proposal to your knowledge is proven. We have every reason to put a vote on adoption in the new edition, taking into account the proposal of the President of the Ukrainian Law, "To amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine." Please vote. [[12:00:48]] For 351 The law is passed, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u227	I think the President will read more carefully the bills he has tabled so as not to veto his laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u228	Thank you. Honorable national MPs, at such a work pace, may we take a break or not? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u229	A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes, or 30 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u230	Let's keep working. You see, we don't have to take a break. I made a mistake. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies to the session room. We agreed that after the break, we would vote on those issues that were not supported and that the national MPs were required to vote. But there's no one to vote. I'm asking the MPs in the government's bed to stop the rally and take their seats. People's deputies please take their seats, let's get back to work. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? As we agreed, we will now vote on your request, but all the questions that we have voted on and that have not received the necessary support. May I have your attention, please, so that I will not be required to do so. Please take your seats. Dear National Deputies, take your seats! I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft decision to establish a special temporary commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to monitor the rule of law in the interim election of the Ukrainian National Deputy in the one-man election district number 206 of the Chernigiv region, June 8, 2003. People's deputies are asked to determine how to vote. [[12:34:08]] For 190 The decision is not taken. I'll put it to a vote. There was already a motive. I am voting on a statement by the Ukrainian National MP Stanecko to elect him as a member of the Committee on Budget Affairs. [[12:34:43]] For-189 The decision is not taken. I am voting on a draft decision to include a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the drafting of Ukrainian laws amending the Constitution of the Ukrainian People's Deputies of the Ukraine of Shufrech and Potapova. The committee's decision was positive for you. [[12:35:19]] For 271 Decision taken. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft decision to hold the extraordinary day of the Government of Ukraine with the agenda of the Food Security of the State. The argument has already been made to your knowledge. [[12:36:00]] For-189 The decision is not taken. Let's move on to the section "Decision from the Issues under discussion." A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Implementing Implementation is being announced for consideration. We've been looking at this bill, the decision is the committee to take the project as a basis. Is there no objection? I am voting for the adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Executive Implementation Please vote. I ask you to vote, Your Honor. [[12:36:45]] For 290 Decision taken. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Laws on State Enforcement and Enforcement is being announced for consideration. The committee's decision to base this project. We've been looking at it recently. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Enforcement and Implementing Implementation. Please vote. [[12:37:27]] For 251 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Business Act on utility companies is being announced for consideration. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[12:37:59]] For 358 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Law on the Transfer of State and Municipal Property Objects on the Distinguishment of Expenditures between State and Local Budgets is being announced for consideration. The committee's decision is to take it as a basis. I'll bet you a vote. This is document number 2529. Please vote. [[12:38:40]] For 388 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft law amending the Law on Hostages is being announced for consideration. The committee decided to propose that the document be adopted on the basis of its adoption. I'm betting on a vote on the adoption on the basis of a draft law amending the Law on Hostages in Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:39:15]] For-141 The decision is not taken. Let's go over the first reading again, so we can look at it. What will be the suggestions? [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, the decision is not made. All of it. Convincing evidence is convincing. A draft decree on the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to protect the national interests of the State in the areas of national conscious and patriotic upbringing of the young generation and to ensure conditions for its development is under consideration. Yes, the committee, please, is professional. Please, the head of the Samuels Committee, Catherine Seminal. What kind of decision will we make?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u231	We put forward a motion for a ruling, and yesterday evening a new draft decision was already coming up late, which is the author of which is Gubsky and Kazachenko. I just want to say, Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich and the distinguished Ukrainian national deputies, practically all of your suggestions came from such questions in these two weeks. With regard to the purpose of developing and adopting the National Programme of Patriotic Education, we have foreseen this in our determination, the increased attention to the history of the Great Homeland War, we have foreseen; the state support of the Young Guard Museum there and so forth. We've taken these notes into account. Dear colleagues have made their proposals, but if we look at the second point, this second point is once again the only goal -- it's the adoption of the National Patriotic Education Program, which could make up all of these other observations, points that could go organically into this national program. And I want to ask all of us to take the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis for our vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, and in accordance with the committee's decision, and according to the registration, I'm putting to the vote the first project proposed by the committee is project number 3461. I am voting on the basis of a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to protect the national interests of the State in the areas of national-conscious and patriotic upbringing of the young generation and to ensure conditions for its development. Number 3461, based on. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u233	Please support the committee's decision. [[12:42:01]] For 354
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u234	Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u235	In general. A request for a general decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u236	One minute, there's a note. Bogdan Hubsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u237	No, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u238	Aah!? Basil Nadrag, I thought he was the author of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u239	Dear colleagues, as part of the discussions that have taken place at the parliamentary hearings, I have proposed and asked that I support this idea that the Cabinet of Ministers should develop not only a youth programme but also a separate programme for children to be the “Children of Ukraine” programme. The main problem is the social, economic and all other issues related to childhood. If we don't do this separately, it's also going to drown in some bigger, broader topics. Therefore, please be a separate programme of the Cabinet of Ministers “Children of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u240	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, this is the program. What's important is that it's not being executed in full just to be executed. We can, if we find that we pay attention to the inescapable implementation of the program, taking into account the recommendations of parliamentary hearings. That's how you can do it. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u241	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u242	With this proposal in mind, I am voting on the draft decision on the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to protect the national interests of the State in the areas of national-conscious and patriotic upbringing of the young generation and to ensure its development conditions for adoption as a whole. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u243	Please vote, please support our decision, taking into account your colleague's offer. [[12:43:50]] For 363 Decision taken. A draft decree on the National Council of Ukraine’s report on television and radio talk is under consideration. Dear colleagues, we heard this report on Friday. Do you remember how intense the discussions and emotions were? You are invited to have a draft decision finalized. Tomenko, please turn on the microphone if possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u244	Dear colleagues, there is such an offer. We've made a replacement project based on the nature of the discussion. The project was proposed by me and the National MP Artemenko. There, I'd like to apologize to Mikola Bagraev because he wasn't there, and his last name was accidentally added to the project. That's what it's all about. We propose for the first time in Parliament's history to support our four, especially those who have just begun to work, and there is the norm to point out Nacrad's shortcomings, but to approve the Nacrada report in such a way that the four of us from the Supreme Council begin to work, and turn to the Chief of the Supreme Council for failure to implement another point in our old decision on the old composition of the National Council. This approach, I think, is compromised and balanced, and it will give the National Council a year to work and we don't think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u245	Ladies and gentlemen, you understand the position of the committee. That's why I'm voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the report of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. This is number 3371. Please vote. [[12:45:50]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Yes, please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u246	Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to realize that here in the towers we have been talking about what the warnings of certain national MPs and, in particular, of the parliamentary majority are about how much law our position will be to go back to the old Supreme Council decree. So in order not to slow down Nakrad's work, as the initiator of this text, I propose to vote without a second paragraph, without a second paragraph, to save the text, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to approve the 2002 National Council report, second paragraph. And I would like to support it in such an editorial way that it will continue to work on the Nacrad.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u247	I'm voting on the draft decision as a whole on the National Television Council report, the radio talk with one point -- to approve the report of the National Council of Ukraine on television issues, the 2002 radio talk. [[12:47:09]] For 408 Decision taken. But I ask the head of the committee to work with the lawyers on the proposal, what we need to do to ensure that the Supreme Council's decision is implemented accordingly. Otherwise, the Supreme Council does not need to make a decision. A draft decree on the approval of the position of an assistant consultant to the Ukrainian People's Deputy is being announced. Please, Valentin Grigorovich. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich is head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u248	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Yesterday, on May 20, we discussed this draft decision in the plenary. The committee took into account the vast majority of the proposals made by MPs and groups from individual national deputies in preparing this draft decree for consideration in the Supreme Council. The committee decided to take up the Supreme Council, to accept the committee's proposal, to accept, more faithfully, the draft Supreme Council ruling, which is submitted by the National Committee members on Rules. With regard to the draft decision, which was made by the Ukrainian national deputy Rudzkowski, I remind you once again, my fellow Members, that, in considering it, on the committee before, National MP Rudzkowski had claimed that the project had been withdrawn, but unfortunately, he did not do so today. Therefore, we propose to adopt the draft ruling proposed by the National Deputies of Ukraine as members of the Rules Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u249	Thank you. Dear colleague Rudzkowski, are you filming your bill? Let's take it. But since we have a draft Supreme Council ruling on the non-admissibility of the bill passed by Yuri Karmazin, we must put to the vote the proposal of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. I put to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, author of the People's Deputy Yuri Karmazin, issue 2488/p on the inadmissibility of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the approval of the position of Assistant Adviser to the People's Deputy of Ukraine. [[12:50:10]] For 226 Decision taken. The factions, please. A draft Act on imports into Ukraine of cane sugar in 2003 is being announced for consideration. Yes, committee, please. Please, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u250	Dear colleagues, I'm addressing you again. This draft decision on the position of the National Parliament's Assistant Consultant is designed to take into account the vast majority of the proposals you made, i.e. the MP factions and groups. He was discussed at the Round Table with the participation of all committees and MPs and a large number of consulting assistants. All of this was discussed three times at a committee meeting and generalized. There are no fundamental positions against which a person today could express himself. So please, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the vote has taken place. But I'm going to my colleagues, and I'm going to finish this draft decision in the morning of this session, and I'm going to allow the committee to resubmit it to the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u251	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it would probably be right to support the committee head's position by proposing. Just a minute. So that the committee will look again, consult with the leaders of groups and factions, and on Monday at the Conciliation Council, we will agree on this. Is there no objection? Thank you. Please, Secretary of the Committee on Agricultural Policy of Land Relations, Yukhnovsky Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u252	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The Committee, after considering draft laws 2616 and 2616-2, introduced by the National Deputies Odynik and Sokirka and the National Deputy Svatkov, recommends that the Supreme Council reject the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u253	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee's proposal is clear, right? Please, National Deputy Kalinchuk. Let's vote, not have a discussion, we have a lot of questions yet. Please. Oh, I'm sorry, Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u254	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I do not want to take on the responsibility of discussing this bill again. We've talked enough about him. I'd just like to introduce the national MPs in one detail. The 2003 Act on Change in Ukraine’s Budget has one feature. In search of an increase in income to address the issue of minimum wage and rural aid, a sugar import rate of at least 60 euros is included. Therefore, the bills that have just been announced for consideration are not subject to this. They are damaging Ukraine’s budget. That's why I also urge you not to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u255	Thank you. Roman Zvaric. I'm asking you, dear fellows, not to acquiesce. Please, Roman Zvarich. We've been talking, let's be clear now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u256	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! According to what information. The Committee on European Integration, neither the bill nor the other, meet the bilateral protocols signed between the Government of Ukraine and our partners on this issue. So I'd like a government representative to confirm or deny the quota that these two bills put into our contracts. Because if they don't answer, we can't approve of these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u257	Dear National Deputies! We discussed this bill on Wednesday. Government officials have proved their position. Now we're going to talk again. Let's determine by voting. I'm putting the vote in order for the bill to come. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act on the Import into Ukraine of cane sugar in 2003 number 2616. Authors: People’s deputies Sokirko, Odynik and others. [[12:55:26]] For-19 Well, I don't think there's any need for factions, dear colleagues. Please demand the factions. Please. I'm voting on the basis of a project number 2616-2 of the draft law on imports of cane sugar into Ukraine in 2003. The author is the national deputy of Swatkov Leonid. [[12:56:12]] For 247 The factions. Please, Hubsky or Svatkov, who will be speaking? Weddings, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u258	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The bill is short, there are several lines. Yesterday, when finalizing and agreeing with the government, they decided to change the figure in Article 1: from 280 to 360. And the proposal is to vote as a law as a whole with this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u259	Please, Roman Zvarich. Now there's an offer, let's put it, let's figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u260	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, on behalf of the Committee on European Integration, I strongly protest. Until there is a position of government on bilateral protocols along the line of Ukraine’s entry into WTO, we cannot adopt this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u261	There are two suggestions, your honor. The first proposal made by Leonid Svatkov, a national deputy. The second is from Roman Zvaric. In the coming order I put them to the vote. On adoption as a whole as a draft law on the introduction into Ukraine of cane sugar in 2003 as a law that takes into account the amendment of the 280,000 by 360. This is 2616-2. [[12:58:07]] For 235 Decision taken. The factions, please. A draft law amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Act on the order of payment of taxpayers' obligations to budgets and State trust funds on the write-off of a tax debt incurred by taxpayers due to non-payment of wages is under consideration. The committee suggests that we take this as a whole. There's no objection. I'm voting for adoption on the basis of the draft of this law, this is number 2284. [[12:58:53]] For 307 Decision taken. I'm voting on the adoption of this bill as Act No. 2284. Please vote. [[12:59:16]] For 348 Decision taken. The law is passed. The draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to Disabled Children and Children is under review. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. Is there no objection? I'm betting on a vote on the adoption of this bill on the basis of number 2471. Please vote. [[12:59:50]] For 392 Decision taken. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Veterans of War, guaranteeing their social protection with regard to payment of cash assistance, is being announced for consideration. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. I'll bet you a vote. Number 3027. [[13:00:22]] For 384 Decision taken. A draft law on the provision of employment for young people is being announced for consideration. We discussed it. Please, the committee's head is Catherine Seminal. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u262	Ladies and gentlemen, I particularly refer to you, Anatoly Volodymyrovich, to you, to all the representatives of the majority and to the faction of the regions, and to Vitali Yuriovich. The point is that, indeed, the committee had considered this bill, which had been introduced on 9 September, and had decided on 6 November to recommend acceptance in the first reading, but had made many remarks. The National Deputy of Ukraine Vitaly Homutinnik drafted a bill on November 12th to replace the bill, which is now in the order of the day, which is no longer available, is already a bill to replace the bill previously submitted. According to the Rules, the first deputy addressed a letter to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has reviewed this bill and has made its comments on the creation of a working group to finalize this bill, as it narrows down the rights of young people and focuses solely on what the State grants, subsidizes the enterprise - there will be a job, there will be no job - there will be no jobs. And this bill is designed to provide the first job exclusively for those who have a higher education. I mean, those who are less, less secure, who have graduated from school and so on, they're completely without this social support. And that's why the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine reviewed the government's proposals at its meeting, created a working group to which the drafter proposed to enter into the bill in order to finalize the bill and to actually ensure the right of first place of work, regardless of where he lives, in the village or in the city, and so on. So we would very much ask you, there is no law in nature that Vladimir Mikhailovich can now put to the vote. There is already a bill to replace the previously submitted bill, which has not been considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's profile committee. I'm asking you to withdraw this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u263	Ladies and gentlemen, obviously let's support the committee's proposal for the committee to consider and then discuss the matter. Do you agree with the national MP, Homutinnik? Please, the microphone of the people's representative of the Homutinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u264	Dear colleagues, respectable Yekaterina Semenovna! I think that these are some regulatory mistakes, and I hope that the law has been passed, at least in a year, I have not seen such precedents, but nevertheless I agree with the committee's proposal to finalize and adopt an agreed draft for first reading. I therefore agree with the Committee's view, and I hope that we will indeed work out, work together and pass a law that will encourage young people to take their first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u265	Thank you. I ask the committee to speed up the consideration of this bill so that we can consider it and make the appropriate decision. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Land Pay Act is being announced for consideration. [[on machine building for APC]] We've been looking at it this week, and there's a proposal for the committee to take it as a basis. Please vote. [[13:04:51]] For 131 The decision is not taken. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Promoting Agricultural Development 2001-2004 is being announced for consideration. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. [[13:05:30.]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we've discussed these issues, let's make decisions about them. A draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislation on hunting and hunting, conservation, use and reproduction of the animal world is under consideration. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. I'll bet you a vote. Number 2121. [[13:06:09]] For 382 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Hunting and Hunting against poaching is being announced for consideration. The committee's proposal to accept as an exception paragraph 1 for changes to article 38. Did I make the right point? Please, National Deputy Samołowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u266	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, when I reported here, the committee had decided to unite the two laws in one because the draft laws had been introduced, and the proposals applied to almost the same law on hunting.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u267	Dear people's deputies, then we'll take the one and the other as a basis. That's the first one. And the others. I think the committee would be right if it brought together two bills, not adding work to the Supreme Council. I therefore vote on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Hunting and Hunting against poaching, with the exception of paragraph 1 on amendments to article 38. [[13:07:42]] For 310 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian customs tariff on toy products is being announced for consideration. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. I'll bet you that vote, number 2256-1. [[13:08:14]] For 296 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u268	Respectable colleagues, this law can also be applied in general. He's out. Observations were made by the Yehanurov Committee, they withdrew, and the Committee's observations were withdrawn. In principle, there were no problems on the Committee. Well, if Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u269	Ladies and gentlemen, no objection? Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u270	Thank you. Adam Martinyuk, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, you and I seem to have reached a fundamental agreement: we are voting on a bill as a whole on just one condition -- when no one has any comments. Our faction has a point to this bill, so give us an opportunity to work and prepare it for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u271	Yes, the law is passed on to the second reading. A draft law amending Ukraine's customs tariff for increasing individual goods and products rates is being announced for consideration. The committee's proposal what? Please, Vasil Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u272	The committee's proposal is to support it on first reading, because there is a customs board. It's a cut in rates, yeah. The Committee on Finance and Banking supported the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u273	I will specify the title of the law: the draft Act amending the customs tariff of Ukraine. [[on the reduction of bets on individual goods and products]] Secretariat, I'm paying attention to yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u274	Yeah, they're the same positions as Zarubinsky's, but they weren't taken into account. We will lead by one law and give it to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u275	I'm betting on a vote on adoption on the basis of draft law number 2448.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u276	The Committee requests support. [[13:10:08]] For 273
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u277	Decision taken. A draft law amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act is being announced for consideration. [[about the money coming from advertising]] The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis and as a whole. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u278	Dear colleagues! This is a restrictive norm that was adopted in the early 1990s, because the opinion of the lawmaker was that funding for state broadcasters, the radio company of municipal property will increase. With the budget downgraded, TV companies, in order to pay a salary, a bonus, to buy technology that is limited to attracting the money of others from advertising, sponsoring, and so forth, are causing great problems. The request of all radio organizations to help them lift the limit, it doesn't exceed 50 percent, and it gives everyone the opportunity to work and support and encourage their creative workers. The committee’s position came with no warnings, no vote on the basis as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u279	I'm voting on the adoption of the draft law amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Television and Radio Broadcasting on Advertising Money, based on number 2285. [[13:11:47]] For-160. The decision is not taken. Maybe for the rereading of the first reading then. On re-reading, I put the vote to send this bill number 2285. [[13:12:13]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. A draft regulation on the normalization of the activity of the Viche magazine is being announced for consideration. Dear colleagues! I'll have Tomenko Mikola brief the head of the committee. We've been discussing this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u280	Dear colleagues! There are two minor differences here, there is a position of committee to finally resolve the problem of the magazine’s activities. To entrust the Head of the Supreme Council with presenting the interests of the Supreme Council in this matter and to bring all statutory documents into line with the current legislation, together with the Committee on Freedom of Speech. There's an option for Sergey Truedenka. He has a slightly different approach to how to do this. But by an absolute majority, the committee proposes to support option 2257-1, so that the committee, together with the Chief of the Supreme Council, can finally sort out the fate of Wiche magazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u281	Please, National Deputy Bandurka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u282	Dear National Deputies! Dear Head! The Evening magazine has to be saved. It was not the magazine’s fault that we did not provide help, support, or control. Today, trying to eliminate the only professional journal that the Supreme Council has, it's just not right that we voluntarily give up what's been created for years. The log needs to be maintained, not asked about its elimination.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u283	Dear National Deputies! I'm voting in the order of coming draft regulations. It is the first to vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the normalization of the activity of the editor of the journal "Foreign" at number 2257 is the draft of the People's Deputies of Pravdenko. Please vote [[13:14:40]] For 263 Decision taken. A draft Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure is being announced for consideration. We talked about it. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. Is there no objection? I'm voting on the adoption of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. Please vote everyone. [[13:15:16]] For 324 A decision has been made. Thank you. The draft law on the State-wide Technical Refurbishment Programme for the Forward-looking and Social Development of the State Militaryly Armed Mining Rescue, Accidental Rescue, Rescue Service of the Ministry of Ukraine on Emergency Situations and Protection of Populations against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster for 2004-2008 is under review. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. Yesterday we discussed this bill. Please vote. [[13:16:04]] For 307 Decision taken. A draft law amending Ukraine’s Land Code on land removal and allocation is being announced for consideration. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. I'm betting on this 2422 vote. Please vote. [[13:16:36]] For 375 Decision taken. A draft law amending article 57 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act is being announced for consideration. Dear National Deputies! We looked into it yesterday. There's an offer. As reported by the Parubek People's Deputy, the procedural approval of the opening of the constitutional introduction is accepted no later than 1 month after the date of the coming of the constitutional appeal to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I want to inform you that I had a conversation with the head of the Constitutional Court yesterday. In support of the bill as a whole, he asks for a term of at least three months, considering that a huge number of requests for material must be collected in order to begin consideration of the matter. So if there were no objections from the author, we could take this amendment as a basis. Because it's unrealistic, the head of the Constitutional Court says. Sometimes up to 50 questions are needed to consider a certain law. What would be the opinion of the author of the bill? No objections? I am voting on this proposal to adopt a draft law amending article 57 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act, changing the term to three months. Please vote. In the first reading, the basis. [[13:18:16]] For 242 Decision taken. A draft law amending article 30 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government on the issue of certificates of ownership is being announced for consideration. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. Is there no objection? I'm betting on a vote on adoption on the basis of draft Law No. 2252, on a basis. [[13:18:53]] For-46 The decision is not taken. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Treatment of Taxpayers' Obligations to Budgets and State Trust Funds on methods for determining tax liabilities is under consideration. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. If there are no other proposals, I'm voting on the adoption as the basis of this bill. This is 1127-1. Please vote. [[13:19:38]] For 241 Decision taken. A draft law amending article 11 of the Law on value added tax is being announced for consideration in respect of cash tax accounting in PEC enterprises. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis, right? I am betting on the adoption vote based on draft Law No. 2006. [[13:20:24]] For the 250. Decision taken. Yes, let's move on to the section "Questions of Ratification." A draft law on the ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on cooperation in the field of emergency prevention and the elimination of their consequences is under consideration. The committee recommends ratifying. Is there no objection? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE None.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u284	I am voting on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Cooperation in the Area of Emergency Warning and Elimination of Their Consequences. Please vote. [[13:21:32]] For 386 Decision taken. A draft law on the ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Tajikistan on the encouragement and mutual protection of investments is being announced. The committee recommends ratifying this law. No objections? I am voting for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Tajikistan on Encouragement and Mutual Protection of Investment. Please vote. [[13:22:19]] For 383 Decision taken. A draft law on the ratification of an agreement in the form of an exchange of notes between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Japan on the granting of a Japanese cultural grant for the provision of musical instruments, audio and video equipment to the Kyiv Children's Academy of Arts. The committee suggests ratifying this document. No objections? I am voting for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement in the form of Exchange of Notes between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Japan on the granting of a Japanese cultural grant for the provision of musical instruments, audio and video equipment to the Kyiv Children's Academy of Arts. Please vote. [[13:23:22]] For 389 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we're working with you here, moving on. So, no Georgia Korniovich? Yes, Rudzkowski Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u285	Vladimir Mikhailovich, perhaps we should consider laws that had not been passed before? If you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u286	We're going to go up to them, and we're going to look at them, no questions asked. A draft decree on the assignment of the village of Olewsk Olewsk district of Žitomirsk district to the category of cities of regional importance is under consideration. The committee proposes a positive decision. Is there no objection? I am voting on the adoption of a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the assignment of the village of Olewsk Olewsk district of Žitomir district to the category of cities of regional importance. Please vote. [[13:24:37]] For 382 Decision taken. A draft decree on the transfer to and assignment of a name to the Kisman district of Cherniewec, part of the residential area of the town of Chernivci, is under consideration. The committee supports and requests that the relevant decision be taken. No objections? I would like to vote on the adoption of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to transfer to the Kisman district of Cherniewec to the part of the Chernobyl residential area and assign him a name [[13:25:26]] For 376 Decision taken. Let's go back to the previously unsupported question section. The draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations, on the Functioning of Ukrainian Language in Ukraine is announced for consideration. Out of procedure, please. Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u287	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I've asked you a number of times, I've asked the Supreme Council's management a proposal and a question. On what basis, by constantly violating the Rules, we bring up this consideration, which is called a return to previously unsupported issues. The Rules clearly and clearly state that if the issue is not supported in this session it cannot be addressed. I understand the interest of some factions and groups that on each Conciliation Council constantly ask questions that do not go to a triumphant end. And unfortunately, you and I sometimes vote a dozen times for laws that are not supported. This is a violation of the Rules, I would ask that we do not do that. I understand that this is a requirement of factions and committees, but it goes against breaking the Rules. And it wasn't discussed on the Conciliation Council, so Vladimir Mikhailovich, let's skip it again today, but let's not do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u288	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! This is quite a point, but let's get there then, because there were arrangements that we would make next time, because we were having Government Day, there are no parliamentary hearings. That's why I'm putting to the vote, honourable national MPs, on the adoption of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations, on the functioning of Ukrainian languages in Ukraine. This is 3348. Please vote. [[13:27:45]] For 345. Decision taken. Supplements, no comments? I'm betting on the vote on the adoption of the Bill of Order 3348 as a whole. Please vote. [[13:28:10]] For 340. It's been decided. A draft Decree on the status of compliance with Ukrainian legislation on the issue of State acts on the right of private property to land is being announced for consideration. Land-pai certificates and their circulation to comply with Ukrainian legislation on the issue in nature, use and circulation of agricultural land. Please, Vladimir Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u289	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations revised the decision and took into account all the practical observations and proposals made by the national MPs, including the proposals made by the Democratic Initiatives MP group, except for one point where it was proposed to complete the issue of State ownership by 31.12.2004. It's not supported just because this thesis is already on the government agenda, and the Supreme Council has approved the government programme earlier. So repeating what is already in the government program is not appropriate. The committee shall make an offer to accept this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u290	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law Enforcement Order in Ukraine on the issue of State acts on private property rights to land, land-pai certificates and their circulation, on the enforcement of Ukraine's legislation on the award of land in kind, on the use and circulation of agricultural land. Based on Project 3358. Please vote. [[13:30:10]] For 350. Decision taken. Complementary, are there any suggestions? None. I bet the vote on the adoption of the draft as a whole, as Supreme Council Resolution No. 3358. Please vote. [[13:30:38]] For 351 It's been decided. A draft regulation on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings "The Impacts and Perspectives of Privatisation in Ukraine" is being announced for consideration. After your comments and after the previous vote was not supported, the project has been finalized. Please, Valentina Petrovna Seminouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u291	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! The comments to the committee after the discussions that took place in the session room only came from a colleague of Demjochin, and we counted them. There were no comments from other factions. I'm talking to all the faction leaders. In order for both of us to be able to work, and we're working on legislation in the hall, let's take these parliamentary recommendations. What's more, all the factions were speaking, we've taken all your comments into account. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u292	I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to recommend parliamentary hearings on "Impacts, Perspectives of Privatisation in Ukraine". Please vote. [[13:32:02]] For 407 Copy that. In general, I would like to vote in favour of this order number 3272. [[13:32:25]] For 407 Decision taken. The draft Law on the Write-off of Unpaid Volumes of Natural Gas is being announced for consideration. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. I am betting on a vote to be adopted on the basis of the draft Ukrainian law on the write-off of unpaid natural gas volumes. [[No.2413-1]] Please vote. Vote, please. [[13:33:05]] For 247 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! Here's the proposal -- by faction, please let me vote in general. Let's put it up, vote. No objections? I'm voting on the adoption of the bill as a whole. What, is there a denial? All right, that's it. There's a denial. Well, we need to talk right now. A draft law on telecommunications is being announced for consideration. There are two projects here. Yes, National Deputy Hirschfeld. And then Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u293	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the explanations of vote on Law 2413. No conclusions from the Ministry of Finance that were required under this law. In addition, the Act deals with the change in the income part of the 2003 budget because the amounts of cancellation of arrears were part of the income part of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u294	Yes, please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u295	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! You know that we are the authors of an alternative bill on telecommunications, but we are law-abiding people, we agreed that no law has acquired the majority and has the right today under the Rules to be passed on to the Supreme Council. That's why we're working now, we're in line with the scientific institutions, we're in agreement with the expert body, and we've agreed that there's a real budget and we're getting into a budget, and this law can't be voted on right now, because it's a violation of the Rules. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk gave you a thorough report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u296	Yuri Lucenko, please. And there will be a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u297	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like once not to make an exception for, make exceptions to previous laws, support this one. Once again, this law regulates, including by means of parliamentary control of a vast sector, the third branch of Ukraine, which is now non-marketable, monopolistic. If all of us, remember, voted 400 votes for free phone calls since September 1, then only by this law can this be implemented. We must vote today to control the monopolized sector.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u298	Ladies and gentlemen, in the order of the coming of the bill, I am voting for the adoption of the draft Telecommunications Act 2059-d is Desert Tenko, Lucenko, Kuharczuk, Kostinuk, Skin. Please vote. [[13:36:53]] For 256 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law amending the Concept of the Fundamentals of National Security Policy of Ukraine Kruczków is under review.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u299	Dear colleagues, 93 specific proposals were made to the draft law approved in the first reading. The document suffered a serious setback. First, the title of the law is given in accordance with the Constitution and reads: "On the foundations of national security of Ukraine." This is in line with article 97, paragraph 17, of the Constitution. The second thing I was going to say. When we adopted this law in the first reading, it was not voted out, since it was discussed for the second time, the unvoted draft of the People’s Deputies of Manchulenka, in fact, he received very few votes in the first reading. Thus, the National MP, Manchulenko, made his proposals, which were considered by the committee in preparing and preparing for the second reading. And what the members of the committee have considered possible is taken into account. In total, 62 offers are included in full, 23 in detail, and 3 in part. Individual positions need to be considered in concrete terms. Fifth Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u300	Let's get to those amendments. Who insists on amendments, distinguished national MPs? Who insists on amendments that have not been taken into account? There aren't any. So we all have to put to the vote a second reading of the draft law amending the Concept of Fundamentals of National Security Policy of Ukraine, a new edition. Please vote. [[13:39:30.]] For 270. Thank you, the decision is made. Peter Alexiyovich Dustyczko from the procedure, please. So raise your hand up so that you may be seen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u301	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, since we have very little time left for lunch, and the budget regulation foresees a need for at least forty minutes, I will now be asked to submit a bill to the State Budget and some other legislative acts. Number 3466.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u302	A draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2003 and certain other tax laws is being announced for consideration. Please, Petr Alekseiovich. Gaviluk from the procedure, please. Vasil Gavriluk, People's Landing Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u303	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to reiterate that we are again trying to violate the Rules. Let us recall the recent history of how the budget was adopted. And today, I want to tell you that we have difficulties again. So far, no material has been fully available, and we have not been able to analyse the situation. And if we are to be objective, we really need to comply with the procedure in the Rules. Therefore, I urge you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, to consider this matter, we have raised this subject with you yesterday, to remove it from today's plenary meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u304	I must say, my dear fellow, it is very wise. Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u305	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Peter Alexiyovich, take into your hands what we have just received. It's still hot. That's something you have to vote on. I think they will vote, and the budget will be changed today. But let's not do it twice on the rake, we've done it once. Let's give it a chance, at least the MPs will get to know it, and after the judges' approval, we'll start to take a calm look and we'll adopt this bill. What's more, you said the same thing yourself, it takes 40 minutes, and we've got 18 minutes to take a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u306	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleague Gabrieluk! I share your concern that when we consider the amendment bill to the State Budget, we should have enough time to get to know ourselves, we should strictly abide by the Rules. So I think that making a decision about what we're considering right now should be the decision of the Supreme Council. If the Supreme Council agrees now, it takes a decision, if we share this responsibility together, the Supreme Council has the right to approach the budget now. Such a decision is, it has been made by a corresponding decision of the Supreme Council, and now, in accordance with this Supreme Council ruling, we have every reason to consider it. If necessary, let us redefine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u307	Ladies and gentlemen, after the recess, we will consider the question of judges. You'll get to know each other, hold factions meetings, discuss this issue, and we'll discuss and make the right decision. We're going to get more out of this discussion. Out of procedure, please, Cherniak. We'll make a deal right after the judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u308	Dear colleagues, let us be frank and sincere. I think the reference to all of this being carefully studied is just an attempt to stall and delay the consideration of the question. It's 141 pages small, it's a million figures! No one, well, will read much, even those who spoke here. The less you know, the easier you vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u309	Yeah, we made a deal, we made decisions. However, I ask, the MPs vote consciously, they know everything. A draft Law on Agricultural Production Support and Development is being published for consideration. Pussy Basil. Please, Vasil Petrovich. It's very short and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u310	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The APC Committee, the Finance Committee, supported the bill. The drafters of the bill are practically representatives of all factions. On budget support for the APC. The situation in the APC, you know, has been ongoing since 1999. As the authors of that past law, we have finalized it and therefore the support of Kabmina, Deputy Prime Minister Ivan Grigorievich Kirilenko can say. Therefore, please, it must be seriously worked out to make a serious integrated system of support for the APC, the agricultural producer. Whatever fire decisions we make. Therefore, the request and proposal of the Committee on Finance and Banking, the APC Committee, supported its adoption on first reading, we will not rush to the second reading, we will act under the Rules to ensure that all make their proposals. Thank you, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u311	I'm voting on the adoption of the draft law on support for the production and development of the agricultural product market under number 3064. Please vote. [[13:46:08]] For 209 Ladies and gentlemen, please vote! Vote! I'm voting for adoption on the basis of Project 3064, the draft Law on Support for Production and Development of the Agricultural Market. Please vote. We're all protecting the village, please vote. [[13:46:40]] For 273 Decision taken. A draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Free Activities in the Use of Nuclear Energy is being announced for consideration. Please, Head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Bronnikov Vladimir Konstantinovich. I'm asking you to sit down, don't walk in the hall, you're not at home.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u312	Dear colleagues, you and I have passed the Nuclear Power Authorisation Act. Accordingly, appropriate amendments to the Administrative Offences Act have been introduced to other laws. The comment did not follow a purely procedural bill. Therefore, I ask that you support it and accept it, if there are no comments, in general as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u313	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Free Activities in the Use of Nuclear Energy, No. 2204. Please vote. [[13:48:18]] For 374 There is a proposal for the committee to vote as a whole as a law. Is there no objection? I'm voting on the adoption of draft Law number 2204 as a whole as a law. [[13:48:50]] For 368 The law is passed. A draft Law amending article 14 of the Law on Pension Insurance for Workers of Metallurgical Enterprises has been announced for consideration. Basil Nadraga, please, is the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u314	Respectable colleagues are entitled to concessionary pensions under the current pension law. Unfortunately, this list of professions is not complete. That is why two of our colleagues, Tskitishvili and Kirilov, have come out with the offer to add specialists working directly in the hothouses so that they may also have the right to a concessional pension. Please support. The Committee proposes that the bill be adopted on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u315	Please, Valentin Grigorovich Matthews, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u316	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich Dear colleagues! I wanted to ask, first of all, "Where's the reporter, why isn't he on the stand?" That's the first one. It's different. Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Please don't disturb me. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, secondly, has no reporter. Oh, yeah. The committee was informed that Mr. Ckitishvili had been in charge of the Dniprov Steel Combine for about three months. So I think we have every reason to raise the question that it does not constitute a parliamentary mandate. I'm asking you to take this into account when voting for his bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u317	I ask the secretariat to prepare an official request to provide us with appropriate documents, and then we will make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u318	On behalf of the rapporteur, I apologize. At the meeting of the Committee on Retired and Disabled Persons and Veterans, I was entrusted with the chairmanship of the subcommittee. Dear colleagues, ask Peter Stepanovic Zibenk if there was a solution. Well, why are you talking to me like that?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u319	Dear National Deputies! Then I put it as the basis for the draft of this law. I'm betting on the adoption vote on the basis of the draft Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act for employees of metallurgical enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u320	I beg your pardon. [[13:51:56]] For three hundred Decision taken. A draft Law amending article 51 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self - Rule on the Composition of the Executive Committee of the District Council is being announced for consideration. The district of the council. Yes, please, Orzhachovsky Anatoly Volodymyrovich, head of the subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u321	Dear National Deputies! A draft law on local self - government on the composition of the district’s executive committee in the city of the Council was considered at a meeting of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government on December 4, this year. [[author - People's MP Kirilenko]] Most of the votes of members of the committee are supported by the bill. It is intended to supplement part 3 of article 51 of the law on local self - government in Ukraine with the phrase on membership of the executive committee of the district council in the city. The committee decided to ask for the Supreme Council to support and accept the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u322	If there's no objection, I'll put it to the vote for acceptance as a basis first. I am voting on the basis of the draft law amending article 51 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government concerning the composition of the executive district committee in the city of the Council. This is number 2389. [[13:53:56]] For 378 I'm voting on the adoption of this bill as a whole as a law. [[No. 2389]] [[13:54:20]] For 368 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u323	Dear comrades, please clarify. I'm talking. On December 4, 2002, the committee considered the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u324	Thank you. Yes, Yuri Carmazin, please. Dear colleagues, there's not much, we're going to vote for a break, then we're going to look at the judges, and then we're going to work on the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u325	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. If we take it that way, we'll say that we're not exactly literate people. I suggest there was an expert comment that the formulation of part of the third article 51, which is envisaged, is to write, which means that there are still substitutes for district heads in the city once in the business of executive bodies, write this down: from the work of executive bodies of the council -- insert words after these words -- or the deputy district head in the city council. Same thing, but in the end it would be taken into account correctly. I'm asking you to consider this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u326	Thank you. Honorable National MPs. Sadly, we have already voted on the right decision in general. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of People's Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the registration and the order of the issuing of the selected member of the certificate]] Bondarenko is Vladimir Dmitrovich? Is there a Klukkowski? None. Is there anyone from the committee? Well, let's put it down. Well, who from the committee can report it? Please, who will report from the committee? Then we will postpone until a national MP arrives. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations is being announced for consideration. [[on land of public property]] Orzhachovsky Anatoly Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u327	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on 5 February this year has already considered the draft Law on Local Government Administrations for the Management of Lands of State Property, introduced by the National Deputies of Ukraine Komar, Korsakovsky, Leščinski. The Committee unanimously recommends to the Supreme Council the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations on Lands of State Property to be rejected as one that does not solve the problem. The Committee is of the view that it is appropriate to refer to the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the designation of the local authority of the State executive authority, which is given the authority to be the principal administrator of the land of state ownership. Please support the committee's decision to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u328	Valentina Seminouk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u329	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, first of all, in 1996 you and I passed a law on local self-government and ratified the European Charter on Local Self-Government. And I would like to support part of what the local self-government committee did right. And what we need to stop speculation around the earth is the part that this is the authorization of exclusively representative bodies. As far as the land of state property is concerned, this is the role and prerogative of the Cabinet of Ministers law that we will adopt with you. So I'm asking you to support the committee. The Socialist Party has always stood for representative bodies to be on the ground and to perform the function provided by the law on local self - government and relevant international standards and agreements signed by Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u330	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee's proposal and the committee's decision are clear to you. But according to the procedure, I am the first to vote on the adoption of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Ukrainian law on local government administrations. [[13:58:55]] For-21 Bill 2576 has been rejected. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Vacation Act is being announced for consideration. [[on the granting of leave irrespective of sex]] Yes, is there a Hara Basil? Is there a Kosinov Stanislav? Do you have Kosinov? Hara Vasil, Kosinov? Who's from the committee? So we're putting it off. A draft decision on the Supreme Council of Ukraine award for the contribution of young people to the establishment of a democratic social rule is being announced. The reporter is the head of the committee of Samuelka Katherina Semenovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u331	Dear colleagues, in the autumn of last year, parliamentary readings took place regarding the situation of young people in Ukraine. To this end, the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine met with the leaders of all the youth organizations of the whole country regardless of its political orientation. And it was at these meetings that young people expressed the idea that it would be necessary to set up a prize for the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the contribution of young people, well, we called it that, but later on, I'll say, for the establishment of a democratic, social and legal state. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine reviewed all the materials and worked out both the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the position on such a prize. We're going to have 10 of those in Ukraine, and it's going to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u332	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u333	Is that "thank you"?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u334	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u335	And it will be given to young, talented young people for the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government. On this point, I would ask you, you have all the documents on your hands, we've already taken a good step with you, we've set up our fellowships for orphans, and they're already, we're preparing materials now, I think in the Supreme Council we're going to hand these first scholarships to orphans, and now I'd like to support this decree with a single change. We have long made this decision, and we have come up with a lot of suggestions to call this prize of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: the prize of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government. I think it's going to be, so to speak, the normal sound of that name, this prize.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u336	Yes, dear colleagues, in order to make a decision, I ask you to continue your work for 15 minutes. Please, Oleg Zarubinski. Let's vote, it's clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u337	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Catherine of Simeon, Your Honor! There is no objection to your draft decision, but please tell me, who is it? This is the contribution of young people, who are these young people? In 40 years, 16-28 years, because different scientists define this concept completely differently. Who will be the subject of this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u338	Thank you for asking. The law states that young people are under 28 years of age. Ukraine’s laws define the age of young people under the age of 28.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u339	Honorable national MPs, legislatively defined, can be applied to a young person. That's why I'm voting for adoption on the basis of a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine number 2533d, taking into account the proposals made by the head of the committee. On the basis of that, please vote. [[14:03:04]] For 344 Copy that. I'm voting on the whole draft of this ruling as regulation number 2553-d. Please vote. [[14:03:29]] For 332 It's been decided. A draft Law on the Appointment of Leaders is being announced for consideration. And we agreed, 15 minutes I asked, and we agreed. Draft law on the appointment of presidents of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine and the termination of their powers. Please turn on the microphone. The essence of the bill, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u340	Dear colleagues! This is a first-reading bill, and we have a joint position here with the State Committee on Television and Radio. There is a certain commission of appointment where the position of the Supreme Council is not taken into account. The option is to resolve both the Supreme Council and the President’s interests so that we do not have any opposition, but rather a compromise. There is a position and our experts to vote in the first reading and to work hard to get rid of certain legal flaws. The committee asks for support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u341	I'm voting for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Appointment of Leaders, Presidents of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine, and on the termination of their powers. Number 1159. Please vote. [[14:05:10]] For-174 The decision is not taken. The draft law “On Amendments to Article 73 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine” has been announced for consideration. Yuri Salamatin, please, very briefly. Ladies and gentlemen, we agreed to continue for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u342	Dear colleagues! As early as 2000, the third meeting of the Ukrainian veterans' organization, in its address to the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, made a number of requests for socio-economic protection of veterans and for the protection of spiritual and cultural acquisitions. Including the renewal, like the national holidays of November 7 and 8, the anniversary of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution. To carry out this commission, the Committee on Pensioners and Veterans, Disabled Persons, a group of members of the committee worked on the bill. He voted in the Supreme Council for the previous call, but he did not get the required number of votes in connection with certain political contradictions. Information on this was provided on all the veterans ’ district councils, and the committee was given feedback on the satisfaction with the position of the successive committee and the dissatisfaction with the position of those deputies who did not support the bill. During the elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2003.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u343	Let's vote because there's no one to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u344	I'm done. That was our vote. So I would like to ask you, honourable national MPs, not to repeat the mistake made by the Supreme Council of the previous convening and to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-22-m0.u345	I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code, No. 2068. [[14:07:53]] For-81 The decision is not taken. We won't go any further. The morning session of the Supreme Council is closed. Break till 4:00. After a break, we will consider the question of the appointment of judges.
