ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for your registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:03:04]] Registered -430 There are 430 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we are continuing our consideration of matters according to the schedule of meetings that we have approved for the plenary week for this day. The draft law on the State Privatisation Programme is being announced for consideration. The committee proposes the following rules of procedure for considering the bill: for a reporter to seven minutes, for a question to five minutes, for a report to five minutes, for an answer to a question to a question to five minutes. The individual thought is a committee member, up to three minutes and a discussion between 15 and 17 minutes, 45 minutes. No objections? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u2	None. Let's move on to the question. The Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Čechtev Mikhailo Vasilovich, has the floor for the report. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u3	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! To implement the Supreme Council Order of June 5, 2003, the State Property Fund, along with the relevant ministries of Mineconomy, the Ministry of Finance, Minnesota, Mintrans, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, revised the draft law on the State Privatization Program. [[No. 919]] In the course of the drafting of the bill, proposals were carefully considered, comments by the Ukrainian National Deputies at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the draft State Privatisation Program. First, comments are taken into account regarding privatization standards, rules for privatization of the railway complex. As a result of working meetings and meetings, it was decided to exclude the railway complex from the sub-market transformation sub-programmes. In order to provide political support for the market transformation of complexes -- military and industrial, aviation, mining, shipbuilding, electricity, oil and gas, the state-owned shareholding company "Ukrainian Bread" -- acknowledged by the Ukrainian people's deputies for the approval of complex reform programmes by separate legislative acts. [[NAK Naftogaz Ukraine]] The revised edition provides that sub-programmes of market transformation are approved, not by the government, as in the previous edition of the programme, but by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, i.e. by individual laws, per national economic complex. In order to preserve the system's approach to market transformation, so important to ensure the defence and security of the state of the complex as a military-industrial state is taken into account and a corresponding section is completed, according to which the market transformation of the KPC enterprises will take into account the concepts of structural reconstruction of the defence-industrial complex. A proper understanding was found of the comments made by the Ukrainian national deputies regarding companies in the alcohol industry. Taking into account the complex financial situation of these companies, it has been concluded that the production of alcohol at this stage should be concentrated on state - owned enterprises, so it is advisable to leave the alcohol industry in a list of sites of national importance. In a revised draft law, companies producing alcohol and the national agrarian association "Masandra" will not be privatized, and this is fully consistent with and consistent with a bill submitted by national deputies that passed a professional committee of economic policy and received a positive conclusion. The issue of the acquisition of stock by employees on the same terms and conditions affects a complex of social issues. Taking into account that the granting of State property benefits to members of the privatised labour groups is a fundamental principle of privatization, such as ensuring social protection and equal rights of citizens in the privatization process, the fund has decided to take into account the offer of national deputies regarding the return to the scheme of rules on the payment of shares to employees whose assets are privatized. This means that the standards in this program are completely transferred to the new aid program. Next. Taking into account the social importance of the issue of pre-school care and the purpose of maintaining the network of such facilities, the National Deputies' observation regarding the non-retraining of pre-school institutions that were not used for direct purposes has been taken into account for 3 years or more. The project has been working on removing the standards that applied to the moratorium on the enforcement of entire property complexes of state-owned enterprises, because, in fact, this issue is governed by other legislative acts, is not subject to the regulation of the programme. I look forward to understanding Parliamentarians and supporting the efforts of the government and the fund to adopt the draft Law on the State Privatization Programme. Using the relevant procedures laid down by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, national MPs have the opportunity to use the mechanism for making appropriate changes to the draft programme under the second reading procedure, namely: the project can be adopted as a basis for further further elaboration in the second reading. Another, I think, is a key thesis at the end of the speech. In order to understand the philosophy of the privatization programme, honourable national MPs need to understand what the authors of the program were pushing away from when it was designed. And they pushed away from one fundamental conclusion: that Parliament in its majority and government are partners and thinkers in the perspective of the state and in the understanding of the philosophy of economic transformation and increasing the well-being of people. In the event that Parliament and the government are viewed not as partners, but as opponents or opponents in the vision of the state and its economic development, it is difficult to understand the philosophy of the new privatization programme. Taking these arguments into account, I would ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the State Property Fund's desire to implement new active mechanisms and procedures to reform property relations and to adopt in the first reading a draft Ukrainian law on the State Privatisation Programme. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u4	Dear colleagues! The question is, please write it down and explain it on the board. Jaroslav Suhi. The faction of the United States Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u5	Thank you. Mikhail Vasilovich. Jaroslav Suhi. The faction of SDPU, the city of Zaporozhye. I have a question. We've heard this call over and over and over and over again, we've received privatization programs, various programs. There have been debates, debates, and we have repeatedly expected, by adopting these programs, that meeting the requirements of these programs will enable us to improve the efficiency of enterprises whose forms of property change, increase the amount of investment that will be made to modernize, introduce new technologies and so on. Please tell us why, year after year, by adopting programs, working on them, you are a committee of profile, a ministry, we do not reach the end of the main goal that we have always set before us and will continue to set.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u6	Thank you for asking. In my view, one reason is that we're putting on privatization or we're putting on privatization when they're completely bankrupt. That's one reason. And then, if an enterprise is completely bankrupt, it's very hard to count on an effective owner to come, or an effective investor who invests money and this enterprise leads to a more efficient development. In this case, in my opinion, we should, and in this programme, set such a norm that when we develop sub-programmes for reforming industries that are to be developed by inter-known groups, we should look at government, and then we should go to the Supreme Council, and we need to confirm, as a bill, that this should clearly define the boundaries of state ownership, that is, where the state leaves state ownership, and it assumes responsibility for the fate of this enterprise, but not just formal responsibility, but also some liabilities, both in the part of investment, and capital injections, or in part of the relevant states. And where the state can't solve these issues at the right time, I would like to reiterate, at the right time, the private capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u7	Valentina Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u8	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, you're talking about the critical limit on the preservation of state property. On this point, as you can see, 300 million dollars in revenue from 30 percent of government property is either profitable or non-profitable. That's the first question. The second question. So anyway, why didn't the State Property Fund in that part of the state property where there was the Cabinet of Ministers' Decree on conducting the indexation, the indexation of the basic assets was not carried out. Is that to give everything away for nothing, or what? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u9	As far as the efficiency of State ownership is concerned, indeed, the amounts set out for dividends cannot be described as well - managed by the State. But once again, I stress that this is related to the fact that the state’s corporate rights are part of businesses that work on the verge of bankruptcy. What is concerned with indexation and price increases and sales, is what the fund’s experts are currently working on. But I want to say one thing that we can do without regulations and a political decision to make ten times the price of all objects. We can increase it, but we can't sell it, the investments won't come in, and the businesses may die. But what concerns a particular issue is that there's work going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u10	Instead of Skiny's question, he's going to be asked by Masters, faction of the Ukraine region. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u11	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd like to ask you a question like that. Please state that Ukraine's domestic debt law states that 50 percent of the costs of privatization should be directed towards the repayment of our sovereign debt. In addition, there is a standard for the development budget. And according to these standards, we have to somehow take the money that we're taking away from privatization, and I mean, I get it that, aside from this famous privatization plan, we still have to have a plan for our country's development. That is, those strategic objects that we today unfortunately cannot build at the expense of the state should somehow be taken into account in this regard. And I'd like to see it. hear your point of view from this point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u12	Thank you for asking. That's a very interesting question. Indeed, the fund has stood up for this thesis over the past few years, and it has come from these positions both on the budget committees, and on the government when the budget was being formed, with what is not and will not be more stately, it is economically inappropriate for all the costs of privatization to be spent in the corresponding budget year, but for the funds to work for the future. And there was the President's decree. But when there was a budget, because of the deficit, there was an agreement between the budget committees, and the people's deputies, and the Cabinet of Ministers, and the budget was accepted, where 100 percent of the funds went only to the current budget needs. And that's why in this privatization program at 198th, we've severely written down this rule and we want it to be legislatively resolved what you're proposing, where it says, "The General Fund of the State Budget. Public privatization funds are being made available to the General Fund of the State Budget. Of these, 25 percent of the funds, not less than 25 percent, should go to investing enterprises that are strategically important to the economy of the state. We want to legislate this rule. Thank you so much for understanding this, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u13	Stephen Cloud, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u14	The cloud, the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, the Motherland Party. Dear Mikhailo Vasilovich, the goal of privatization is to improve the efficiency of business activities. But if this is the case, why are enterprises that work very effectively in the public sector being developed for privatization. There are many examples. And now there's a tremendous amount of preparation to privatize the Crevice Metallurgy complex, which works very effectively and in a very promising way. Other examples can be cited. The programme is designed to prepare for privatization of defence industries, airline industries, and electricity companies that have a direct bearing on the national security of the State. And the practice of what you're saying is you're saying it right, but practice shows that often for privatization, such objects appear to be on the lookout, because they're convenient, they're very effective. And they're released in vain.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u15	Thank you. I'll answer that question. And indeed, it is the Privatization Program that envisages the development of seven sub-programmes for the reform of aviation and shipbuilding. And the sub-programme is developed over the course of the year by an interdisciplinary group of representatives of various ministries and departments, looking at government, and then submitted for approval to the Supreme Council. And in this sub-programme, the Supreme Council needs to define the boundaries of state ownership, so the Supreme Council needs to define the boundaries of statehood in each of these complexes. As far as Krivorostali is concerned, pre-privatization preparations have now begun. But in order for privatization to begin, an appropriate decision must be taken by the government. I know that a group of deputies are now preparing a separate law on the privatization of Krivorostali. If the Supreme Council accepts it, I think it'll be very positive. And then the privatization of the Creature will be done on the basis of a separate law adopted by the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u16	Mikhailo Vasilovich, time's up. Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economics, Property and Investments. Please, Vladimir Anatoliyovich. I'm sure you'll be a bit of a cutie as usual.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u17	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! The draft law that we are considering today on the State Privatization Programme has been finalized in accordance with our decision of 5 June. The scope of the changes made makes it possible to review the bill again. For example, the adoption of a market transformation and preparation programme for the privatization of particularly important national economic complexes is the prerogative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not the Cabinet of Ministers, as proposed by the previous project. Excluded from the text of the draft proposal for the termination of the Ukrainian Act on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of property if the programme is adopted. Turning to the finalized draft, it should be said that it can be constructive only if the principle of a specific historical approach is followed. Beyond that, it is easy and to some extent fair, although extreme positions can be taken irresponsibly. Indeed, we have the most serious claims to the property reform process itself. They are justified by a very weak economic and social theoretical rationale for the strategy and tactics of reforming public property, as well as by too many discrediting examples of privatization of Statehood. On the other hand, ownership has been in the process of reform for more than 10 years. This situation requires, not general criticism, but specific adequate action by the authorities to find and use better solutions today and in the near future. The updated State privatization programme presented in the Supreme Council is largely in line with the requirements outlined above. In characterizing its own programme, it is now an acceptable quality programme product. This has been particularly difficult to achieve in the general atmosphere of a lack of a culture of system programming, which unfortunately we have. There is no doubt that there is still quite a large area for comments and programme refinements. There is doubt as to the rationality of the programme period. However, no valid proposals have yet been received on the duration of the programme. There is a proposal for the introduction into the general list of public property rights that are not subject to privatization of a separate list, which would include the State's shares in the statutory funds. The full range of proposals and comments from actors in the law of the legislative initiative is known and the non-contrary part of it can be implemented in subsequent stages of legislative work. The Committee considered the bill and, at its meeting on 8 July, came to the following decision: recommend the adoption of the State Privatization Programme Act as a basis. Please support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u18	Yes, thank you. Any questions for our colleague? Please sign up. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Yes, National Deputy Petrenko, Communist faction. You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u19	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd like to hand it over to Deputy Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u20	National MP Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u21	Thank you. Most of all, I wanted to ask Chetchev Mikhail Vasilovich when he was talking about the philosophy of the privatization program. So, I wonder, what is the philosophy of privatization that he spoke about, and for whom is it done, in whose interests are we privatizing? Let's all get in the car, eat at any end of Ukraine and ask those people where privatized businesses: what did privatization give you? Where's your property, your privatization? What do you have from privatization? They don't have anything. Where does it all go? And is it appropriate to continue this privatization? Is it more appropriate to do some inventory and see what we have done and what we are going to do next? And you say the program is so beautiful that you just have to put it in the frame and watch it, and you don't have to do anything anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u22	I have already said in my statement that the adoption of today's programme is fuelled by decades of experience, with positive but also a host of negative examples of privatization. If we speak in philosophical terms, we are here with you in the Hall, we are considering a privatization programme, now the next law on the Ukrainian State Property Fund, all of which we are doing to improve the country's economic situation. But unfortunately, once again, there are examples that are making the bill more difficult to consider today. You probably should, as you said, be more philosophical about taking all this experience into account. Without the program, there must be a program, there must be clear rules of the game, not a game, but a life of ours in the years to come. In this sector of privatization, money should be given priority to an innovative investment and innovation approach to improve the standard of living of the population. I can tell you that today our former fellow Baltic republics call themselves the Baltic Tigers because they have a GDP growth of less than 10 per cent this year because they have properly implemented investment policies in literally three or four enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u23	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u24	Nikolainko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear Volodymyr Anatolyovich! Well, it's a good thing that the privatization program has disappeared with absurd privatization of railways, for example, taking into account our proposals and our committee and factions of science and education, the committee, for privatization of educational institutions. At the same time, however, there remains the privatization of military-industrial complexes, liquor plants, which are today the golden egg that can fill the budget, gas transport networks, oil markets and so on. Please tell me, did your committee analyse the economic strategy, the economic efficiency of previous programmes, and what is it all about, and what is the borderline of our privatization: privatization for privatization or privatization in order to develop our economy, so that we can support innovative projects and so on? Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u25	I'll start with that. What analysis was done and done in the committee. Analysis based on the data provided by the Maintenance Fund for the implementation of the Privatization Programme that exists today and on the information that we receive purely statistical. As for today, what are the shortcomings with regard to, for example, the former, so to speak, the military-industrial complex. Yes, they do. But what a military-industrial complex needs to be privatized, but for reasonable privatization, it is absolutely clear. Because that machine that worked in the country all the way to defense, it can't stay that way. Regarding transport communications, particularly oil pipelines. They are not in the privatization programme. There are pipelines that are now filled, not with petroleum products, but with water, and half of them have rotted, and people are sitting without pay. Privatization is needed and, of course, different approaches are needed. And speaking of the same, what our bright dream, the bright future, is the realization of an innovative investment approach. We talked about this when we were considering the programme to the government, and our committee's view is almost unanimous: that what we have today in the economy is an investment-innovation approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u26	Leukyanko The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u27	Lukyanenko. The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor. The Julia Timoshenko faction. I have two questions. First question. You think we all know the MPs, and across Ukraine, that the privatization process has been transformed into a process of acceptance by this simple technique: the factory has been leaked and destroyed, the workers have been expelled, the technology has been sold and so on, its price has been reduced to a minimum, and then sold, or privatized. So it's a question. Is it possible at all to investigate these facts of illegal privatization and, as it were, to put the legal order there? The second question. How do you appreciate that fact? From the oil industry in Ukraine, 6 of them seem to be in the hands of Russian oil companies. And now they want to raise the price of oil by 15 percent, and they're "grandmother!" And raised us up, and left us to Ukraine with our noses. How do you view this process, and is there any way to correct it? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u28	Thank you. That's a really good question. It's about the story we have, like you said, on acceptance. Yeah. Today we will consider, not today, but the draft law on reprivatization. I think that the facts that are revealed or will be revealed today, and where privatization is done in violation of the law and where there is no effective owner, they need not just audit but change owners to return to the Power to nationalization and that is a normal process. Because this process will only help to heal the economy. With regard to the situation in the energy market. Indeed, we have six factories today and not five, but almost six are in the hands of Russian oil companies. The problem is that with more than fifty million tons per year, we are now producing about three million dollars is a clear imbalance. And in the absence of our own crude oil, we are, of course, forced to look for those oil companies that will come and work in our factories. But I would like to point out that it is possible to work with both Russian and Kazakh companies, and with others, but it is necessary to determine the conditions of investment, oil, and price policies. If we declare today that our goal is to join the world trade organization, we will go to Europe and we must focus on the European market, including energy carriers. I mean, I think that the privatization programme and the Detainability Fund Act should also contribute to the resolution of energy market issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u29	Thank you. Time's up. Sit down, please. Individual opinion of a member of the Committee, deputy head of the Committee of Matthew Vladimir Josephovich. Please, Vladimir Josephovich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, despite the fact that the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of the People's Economy, owned by investment, adopted by majority the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to adopt the draft Law on the State Privatization Programme as a basis, I am submitting a separate opinion to those members of the committee who voted against the adoption of the bill. As you are aware, on 5 June 2003, the Supreme Council issued a decree to return the draft to the Government for further refinement and re-reading. The bill was sent to the Government and the Committee addressed to it all the comments of the people's deputies who had joined the Committee. And what does the Government represent today? A project that is virtually no different from what we considered in June. Simply put, the Government had ignored most of the proposals for a programme that had been made by members of the people. It should be noted that some comments are still taken into account by the Government, but in general the picture remains unchanged. The Cabinet of Ministers strongly proposes to move towards extensive and total privatization in system industries, including natural monopolies. The Supreme Council is urged to privatize everything and speedily without any economic justification. How many complaints from the Ukrainian people's deputies have received a proposal for a bill on a new mode of sale, so-called restricted tendering, where only potential buyers invited by the fund can participate, whose list will be consistent with the Cabinet of Ministers. In addition, these bids will offer to sell mono-polistic enterprises that are strategically important to the economy and security of the enterprise State. As early as June, members of the public commented that such limited participation by buyers would result in a decrease in the number of participants in the competition and would have a negative impact not only on the initial assessment of the sale of privatization facilities but also on the receipt of funds from privatization into the State budget. But the Cabinet of Ministers left this article unchanged. Other provisions of the bill remained unchanged, with comments from members of the people. All strategic sectors of the economy, except rail transport, are still proposed for privatization. It's being prepared, now we've heard here, privatization, for example, of the Krivoroztal combination of profit-generating enterprises, which yields up to 1 billion dollars a year. For whom is this privatization being prepared? Of course not for the people of Ukraine. And what will be passed is a special law to privatize this enterprise. We know how this is done and what this is leading to. We have seen an example of the privatization of a clay plant in Nikolayev, when $70 million per year came from Ukraine. The Ukrainian people were not the people of Russia, but their fatsosummums when they failed to fulfil their investment commitments. The draft privatization programme makes this process of plundering the people of Ukraine and Ukraine legal and permanent. In general terms, the proposed Privatization Programme is not in the interests of the people of Ukraine, nor does it address the egregious issues of the people. We are confident of tomorrow's day, employment and decent income, the social protection of the growing generation and the incapacitated. The draft programme depreciates the State itself, the State of Ukraine, and in the exercise of its property, the State will not remain property that can serve as collateral in international loans. The Group of People's Deputies of the Committee on Economic Policy, People's Management, Property and Investment proposes that the Supreme Council not support the draft Act on the State Privatization Programme.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to a discussion, we've arranged 15 minutes to discuss. Please, Valentina Petrovna will perform the first Semenyuk. Next is Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. Get ready, please. 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u32	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, the Special Supervisory Commission did not first consider the Privatization Program. Seven times at a meeting of the commission, even during the further development and submission of it to the Cabinet of Ministers, there were sessions of the commission, the round tables. Of course, we made our suggestions both during the process of processing and during the session hall. What can be said. Most importantly, 90 percent of the proposals made at parliamentary hearings were not taken into account by the committee. Most of all, what worries me today is that, according to a letter from the Commission of the two decisions to the Cabinet of Ministers, I am concerned about the special review committee as a socialist deputy, that, according to the two decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers, the methodology of the assessment of basic assets prior to privatization should be changed so that the initial price should not be below the nominal value, taking into account the indexation of basic funds as of 1 January 1995, and that all inflation, from 1996 to the first half of 2003, which is 252 per cent, is not counted at all. And the Privatization Program already contains strategic objects. And in particular, the most important thing we've talked about at a board meeting is privatizing liquor companies. And I can tell you today that companies that were created by secret, closed presidential decrees in the form of a DUSI, today have cleaned up liquor factories and eliminated the status of legal persons. That is, the President has already prepared, through his secret decrees, the actual privatization of the alcohol sector through the elimination of these legal persons. So today's privatization programme is actually just to bless privatization and alcohol factories. That's the first one. The other one. The main decision of the commission is that, in accordance with the law on privatization of state property, the deadline for the application of the privatization programme and the duration of the programme is clearly foreseen. That's three years. The program is broadcast for six years. I want to ask the Cabinet of Ministers, representatives of the State Property Fund: less than 30 percent remain in state property. Do you think you can stretch them for three more years, or will you stretch them in six? I think if you look at it as Mr. Demjochin said here, reporting that it was the right privatization and that you have to consider its wrong ways, I want to ask, what was the right thing to do? Given that at the meeting of the special control commission, we had recently considered the privatization of Level Nitrogen, and it was decided not to privatize until the basics were indexed, what is going on? The president has sent a letter from the government of the Forty Visa to sell to whom and for how much, not including any indexation or anything else. This means that the objects will be privatized further under the patronage. I want to go to the majority of my colleagues: my dear colleagues, if this is the kind of visa you're going to take, and believe me, it's going to be that, 30 percent of the government property you're left with, you're not going to be all in line. Trust me! Something has to be left for the state, because it's a state function to ensure the economic development of the state and the competition in the state, you have to have at least a fraction of the state's property. We have 30 percent today. I'll give you just one example: Germany, 12.9 percent government property. Total government-owned budget 57 percent. Poland: Municipal property of only 39 percent, 62 percent of municipal income. What do we have? Best uncle objects, the worst in municipal property, to have magnets added to them, and you, in fact, are citizens of Ukraine today, with nothing but damage and unemployment and no wages. So let us think, or we will continue to be a raw asset, to divide objects among clans by such appropriate resolutions, or, indeed, we will have a legal state and legal legality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u33	Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, next to Puzakov
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u34	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable People’s Deputies, Honourable Head, Honorable Our Ukrainian People, Who Hears Us! The "Study," which is about adopting the privatization programme, is not just about what is being said and what is being said and what is being said by Valentina Seminyuk, and the people's MP Matthew, with whom I fully agree on the inadmissibility of these bills. And the bubble is also called "The National Privatization Program Act" and it changes several laws: the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of Small State Enterprises, the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of State Property, the Ukrainian Act. There is even a change in the subjugation of disputes, honourable national MPs, and all of this is being pushed through a single committee and all of this is being done entirely in violation of the current Rules. I point out to the presiding officer at this meeting that such serious matters cannot be considered. This is about making changes to the law. I'll give you an example, in article 30, they say, "The disputes arising in the privatisation process, the disputes arising in the process of selling privatisation objects at the auction after the competition and so on, are resolved in the order of the late conduct of the relevant Economic Court." Why Farming? Because it's a totally corrupt court. That's why it's done with agriculture. Now, notice, I have specific suggestions for each point. In addition to article 5 of the Privatization Act, part 3 of paragraph 2, where they write: "They are not prohibited from privatizing enterprises that for three years have not produced goods for services that are the basis for banning them from privatization, property complexes of enterprises that are strategically important for the economy and security of the state, whose privatization does not pose a threat to the loss of the country's position on the world market, etc." It's all misplaced under other things not in the Privatization Program, it's in changes to other laws that weren't discussed on profile committees. Mikhail Vasilovich, this has not been discussed. And as a former MP, you know this is called fraud. And, at the same time, you're moving it. Why would you do that? It's not called the Privatization Program anymore. It's about other things. And then we'll be counting you down. Just like I was talking to you and saying, "500 million bracelets offer you for the VAT of the Nicopolian Ferrosphrodite Factory." How much did you get, 200? And you say it's good for the state: 22 is better than 500? You won't convince me. You're not going to convince everyone in this state. You understand. But such a law, such a program cannot be adopted in the way it is. And I agree here with the scream of the soul of Matthew, who said that nothing was actually reworked, in fact. You see, you're proposing changes to the Privatization Act, and here's the second article, and there's another article. Why did Parliament write that the State Privatization Programme is adopted once every three years? So that the next parliament, which will come, would not be oligarchy, could verify, confirm, and clarify. And now you're writing: once every six years. You know, you can't do that, can you? And we national MPs can't vote on that. And let people know what's laid down in these laws. And these laws have even more robberies, at least at a faster rate: all in one year. And you only have one year's calculation, and it's supposed to be for every year now, if that's the program. And the other thing is, if you'll excuse me, there's only one word: that's all at once, but obviously not all of us. This is how a subtitle can be made. And it's actually the visibility of legality, it's just given by these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u35	Vladimir Puzakov. Next Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u36	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. It must be said that the ugly “acceptance” has been killed in the country, resulting in better enterprises and profit-making industries operating in private hands and leaving the State to lose. We must bear in mind that the main objective of privatization, which was defined by the Supreme Council in October 1991, was to create a multifaceted, socially efficient market economy. What do we have today? Indeed, the current economy has a profit of 17 billion grevens per year. This suggests that we have a totally inefficient economy. Today, wages have risen to $2 billion,800 million. In addition, 67 per cent of it is in those enterprises that have changed the form of ownership. The total production volume of industrial products has decreased by more than 300 per cent and its profitability has decreased by 10 times, and the financing of scientific and technological work has been constantly declining in these circumstances there is no reason to expect that the country's privatization process will lead to a crisis. There is full reason to note that the overall technical level of production has reached the threshold followed by de-industrialization of the State. Regrettably, it must be acknowledged that privatization is a lesson of bitter wild, banditry, capitalist economy for tens of millions of citizens. Indeed, the direct result of this privatization must be considered to be the property separation of citizens. Now there are people in Ukraine who are among the richest in Europe, and there are citizens who, unfortunately, live on one bracelet a day. The most cynical robbery of the people of Ukraine has taken place, the theft of a public figure. After all, 86.2 per cent of Ukrainians do not feel that they own their country. 91.2 per cent of respondents believe that the constitutional right to an adequate standard of living is not respected in Ukraine, 82 per cent believe that the country has a right to work and an opportunity to earn a living by doing so. 54.5 per cent of Ukrainians renounce medical care because of lack of funds, people live in constant fear. For these few facts, the living conditions of our people are truly unbearable. Therefore, the privatization programme has not yet been launched, and I propose that the following should be submitted to the Privatization Programme. First. Privatization shall cease immediately. Second. Carry out a general inventory of the real value of privatized facilities, both in production and in utilities. Third. In identifying violations of the terms of privatization, reprivatization or nationalization may take place. Finally, criminalize those who have contributed to violations of the conditions of privatization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u37	Julia Timoshenko, next Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u38	Julia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, I think it's hard for you to suspect me that I'm a man of anti-market ideology and that I don't accept intelligent market transformations in the country. I think it's hard to say that I, our faction, deny the intelligent transformation of property relations. But what I'm saying is, at the same time, that the program that we're offered is not a privatization program -- it's the main thing. It is a program of conscious, systematic surrender of Ukraine’s national interests. Why is this happening? I think someone just now, a year before the presidential election, just needs a different coin: how to pay other countries for the extension of their powers, and how to pay their own environment for the extension of their powers. This program answers that question. I would like to ask you, have you read to the people's deputies all that we're going to privatize with this program? First. I quote, I have in my hands the law itself has no emotion: "The Ukrainian Defence Complex," and when I heard the head of the committee, he said, "Well, there's a smart approach." Well, I have two questions. First of all, who's this smart approach that determines what procedure. And second of all, are there people left in power who are smart enough to figure out what to do with the country's defense complex? Then we read with you that the country's defence complex is not just privatized. Property complexes of enterprises that are strategically important for the economy and security of the state, whose privatization does not pose a threat to the loss of the country's position on the world market. Dear friends! This paragraph gives us the right to practically do with any enterprise any defence complex. We cannot approach so lightly. We have to have a list. You remember when privatization began, the Supreme Council had a list of objects with the value of launching these objects, a serious auction procedure, and openness. Everything's closed today. There's nothing in this program except restricted trading. It's also a quote from the law. What does that mean? This means that the auctions will take place between 2 and 3 persons who will be admitted by the government without procedure. Dear friends! I want to. Three minutes is impossible to say anything you want to say on the side of this privatization, but the next is the airline complex. I want to talk to the people who are familiar with these questions: Mr. Kruczkov, Tarasyuk. Do we not know that our planes are a strategic trump card for Ukraine in the negotiating process of joining the European Union? What's the main thing that we have is that we can actually operate on a diplomatic level. I want to draw your attention to the privatisation of the state-owned oil and gas company NAK Naftogaz Ukraine. Dear friends! We don't know it's a safe house? We don't know that these are strategic gas transport and oil transport corridors? As we speak to Russia and Europe on an equal footing, I have a question. And the question is, how can this complex be sold in such a way that it gets $2 billion in cash in the budget at a time when it's estimated by international experts to be $25 billion? How can you get 2 billion dollars in the budget? These are purely political differences. I know we're dividing by a majority and a minority. But for the most part, I know enough people who are professional, decent, who are not ready to betray the country today. I ask you, dear friends, in respect of yourself, the Supreme Council and the country, we must return this disgraceful document to a new, completely new process that must go through all the committees of profile without exception. And we need to see a new balanced document. I ask you not to vote on Thursday under any circumstances. And to everyone for whom Ukraine is not an empty sound to earn money, unite around it so that it is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u39	Yuri Solomatin and we'll be done. Please, Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u40	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. We have come to the conclusion that 70 percent of government property, or national property, has already been seized, accepted, left behind only 30 percent. The other one. From privatization, the total budget is actually less than 50 percent of the price at which the object was sold or 10-20 percent of the real value of the object. The question arises over and over again: For what benefit is such privatization being done, for the benefit of the people of Ukraine, or for the benefit of short - lived Ukrainian bourgeoisie? And I want to tell our electorate, our fellow citizens, not to be drawn to their faces by you chosen to represent the face of public values. Who starts talking about this conversation, about human values, about the benefits of privatization. is your worst enemy. Will the people of Ukraine understand this or not? Now it's being proposed to privatize intact objects, natural monopolies, the Crimson Coastal -- the most profitable, the Naftogaz of Ukraine -- it's going to be almost the last bite. What's next? One of my colleagues here at this rostrum said we were playing hide-and-seek. No, it's not. Today, the thimbles again want to deceive all other deputies, and along with them all the people of Ukraine. We won't let them do it! So I want to say from our faction, the faction of the Communists of Ukraine, that we will never support this robbery program. This was exposed by my fellow MPs from Mikolayev Mt. Vladimir Josephovich, who was exposed by my colleague from Kyrovgrad, Puzakov Vladimir Tikhovitch. We are speaking decisively "no" to this attempt of another, as if legal, robbery of the people of Ukraine! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u41	Kručkov's replica of Georgi Korniyovich, please. One minute. Krüchchev's microphone. Please turn on the Hooker microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u42	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich! Since this was my last name, I want to say that our committee is consistently opposed to looting and privatizing enterprises in the defence and industrial complex. But this trend is both in government and in the State Property Fund, and it's among the national MPs. We now have a project here that now includes, not privatization, but corporateism as the first step towards privatizing defence enterprises, and businesses that need to be preserved now under state conditions. In general, you need to see when you are looking at objects that are supposed to be privatized — a polygraph base. What is it that strengthens the material basis for affirming the Ukrainian culture, our language, that we talk about? We have to stop! I support the proposal that this bill should be rejected and that it should be returned at least for the first time again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u43	Instead of Konovaluk Gladys, please, from the place. Mikhail Vasilovich, Gladys, out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u44	Dear National Deputies! The faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party has always given special importance to the privatization and economic processes of our country. First, this is the source of the State Budget, secondly, it's a kind of economic reform indicator in Ukraine for potential investors. Their assessment of the state of economic reforms depends on the resolution of the restructuring of external government debt. And thirdly, most importantly, it's the way to build an effective owner and a medium-sized fence in society. However, dear friends, along with the fact that the faction has always supported, the agricultural faction, the process of reform and the process of market transformation, we believe there are a number of issues that need to be seriously addressed in this bill. The faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party cannot fully agree with the proposed changes in terms of determining ways of privatization, especially with changes in the legislative acts on privatization in the agro-industry complex. The other one. There is hardly any convincing argument for today's proposal -- to define the programme and the specificities of land management in the privatization process. We cannot allow labour groups of active state-owned agricultural enterprises to lose their legal right to the benefits of workers of already privatised enterprises, as amended by the Ukrainian Law on Property Privatization in the Agro-industry Complex. We do not understand why we should include land management in the process of privatizing unfinished buildings, since these issues are defined by the Land Code and by legislation on land relations. It was the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party that wanted to pay attention to these issues, and we think we need to work on them in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u45	Thank you. Many other deputies insist on speaking. Please, time is up. If the room decides otherwise, let's vote to continue the discussion by 20 minutes. Shall we vote? We vote who wants to go 15-20 minutes more. Let's vote, turn the system on. [[17:01:19]] For-31 The decision is not taken. The question is closed, the vote will take place in accordance with the Rules. Let's move on to the next question, the draft law on the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Reported to the head of the Cechetov State Property Fund, Mikhailo Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u46	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs! For consideration in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft Ukrainian law on the State Property Fund of Ukraine is presented. There is a need for legislative regulation of the Ukrainian State Property Fund and for proper regulation of the privatization process throughout all privatization years. The absence of a legal basis to determine the legal status of the State privatization body deprives the Fund and other State privatization bodies of effective influence over certain aspects of the privatization process and their activities. The Fund's activities so far are regulated by a temporary provision on the Ukrainian State Property Fund, approved by a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine back in 1992, which is out of date, given that the round of issues that have to be resolved by the Fund has expanded significantly and has changed according to the current development and strategy of the privatisation process. Such conditions complicate the Fund’s work and adversely affect the performance of tasks before the Fund. Since 1997, the Ukrainian State Property Fund has made every effort to regulate its activities. Ukraine’s bill on the State Property Fund was reviewed repeatedly by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The main issue at the time of consideration of the project was the issue of sub-control, accountability, and sub-subordination of the fund. In 1998 the Constitutional Court of Ukraine declared unconstitutionally that the State Property Fund is subordinate to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, I did not recognize the unconstitutional position regarding the accountability of the Fund to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill, which is proposed for consideration, is designed to comply with the requirements of the Ukrainian Constitution, Ukrainian laws, Ukrainian Presidential decrees, regulations and regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. In drafting the bill, proposals are included in the previous draft on the drafting of controversial rules, particularly in the reporting and subordination of the Ukrainian State Property Fund. The main purpose of the bill is to clearly define the legal principles of the activities of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, its status, functions, powers and order of implementation. In accordance with the Presidential Decree on Changes in the Structure of the Central Executive Authorities, the project defines the fund as the central authority of the executive branch with special status. The fund is expected to be accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In defining this subordination algorithm, the authors were pushed away, on the one hand, from the decision of the Constitutional Court, and on the other hand from the vision of the philosophy of political reform that is taking place in Ukraine, at the end of which the contours of the parliamentary-presidential republic are examined, when the majority of parliament or the coalition of parliamentary forces will be approved by both the government and the government and most parliament -- it will be the only tandem that will move the country forward. As a result, such a compromise is written that the Fund is subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The project specified and defined the functions of the Fund in the areas of state economic policy and government, privatization of state property, rental of state property, administration of property rights. In particular, it has been noted that in the sphere of public-economic policy and government management, the foundation is based on priorities, the structural restructuring of the economy participates in the formation of investment policies, contributes to the stable functioning of the stock market in Ukraine, participates in the development of state-wide programmes and the state budget of Ukraine. The important provisions of the bill should include the legal norms that determine the system of the fund's organs and its management, as well as the rights, powers and order of the fund's interaction with the public authorities. According to the project, the only system of state-owned privatization bodies in Ukraine is a fund of its regional offices, a fund of property in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the representation of the fund in areas and cities. The bill defines the functions and responsibilities of the property fund in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regional offices and representations of the fund. Pursuant to the bill, the fund is headed by a head who, according to the Supreme Council's agreement, is appointed and dismissed as President of Ukraine. According to the Head of the Fund, the deputies are assigned to the post and are dismissed from office as President of Ukraine. The Head of the Fund is appointed for a term of five years with the right of appointment for the second term, manages the Fund, directs its activities according to the strategy and ideology of the current course of property reform and is responsible for carrying out the tasks and functions entrusted to the Fund. The fund’s deputy heads make decisions on matters that fall within the competence of the fund within the limits of the powers delegated to them by the head of the fund. For the sake of an agreed solution to the issues related to the competence of the fund, discussion and decision-making of the most important activities, there are rules for the establishment of the fund’s college and its composition is determined. In addition to the board of directors, the Fund’s executives may include managers from the central executive bodies, the Head of the State Fund in the Republic of Crimea, the heads of the regional departments and its representations, representatives of the Preparatory Committee of the Supreme Council and the Privatization Commission. The foundation of the Fund’s College is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. In the process of implementing the mandate and functions of the Fund, the bill provides rules for the interaction of the Fund with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on privatization issues, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the central executive bodies. I am confident that the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the State Property Fund will create a perfect and fundamental legislative framework for the privatization of state policy in the area of property reform in Ukraine, allowing the transparency of privatization processes to be avoided, will help to improve the efficiency of property management in state ownership. The proposed project will make it possible for the Fund to function effectively, to perform its tasks, to improve and stabilize its work. Please support the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Property Fund. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u47	Mikhail Vasilovich, ready to answer your questions? Please sign in. Light up, please. The word is given to Olga Hinzburg, the next King.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u48	Thank you. Hinzburg, Communist faction. Dear Michael Vasilovich, I wanted to ask you a question in your previous speech, and now, listening to your report, you are saying that you will be subordinated to the Cabinet and the Supreme Council, including in this law that you have just proposed to us, clearly spelled out your functions of economic development of enterprises. I have a question. Give me some advice. For example, I have a car repair plant in Konotapa. Previously he was lined up with "The Railroads," then split into two factories, one went bankrupt, and now he's in a sanitizer. But the thing is, he's going to be going through this procedure today, and he's going to be subordinated to you probably, the Holdmain. The problem with this company is not paying wages. For almost six years, about a million dollars. What, then, can the Property Fund, according to your rules or your assigned functions, do to help this business? Can't he, or can he? Or maybe someone else can, and you can tell me who.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u49	Sure. I'll give you an example. It's a flat gas company. People's deputies, representatives of the faction of the Socialist faction, asked me to intervene in the situation on the Plain. And the question was that. is set up by introducing an investor to help solve the financial problems of an enterprise. We've put on the Plainazeot contest. There were several firms. Austria’s firm won. 48 million to the State budget. Next. We have entered into an investment obligation that within 3 months they will pay off the entire debt on wages and pensions, that they will cover 80 million debt in a mandatory manner for three months, that they will invest 40 million dollars in enterprises over the course of the year, and that thanks to Valentina Petrovni Semenyuk, we have added that after investing 40 million enterprises, they are obliged to export businesses to a high level of profitability. And if the company doesn't make any money in a year, we're going to break the deal. I mean, we're at the expense of a private owner's wallet, we're solving business problems, including wage problems. So if an enterprise that's led to bankruptcy comes to the holding fund to raise it, in order to increase its efficiency and bring it to a cost-effective job, it's going to need investment money. Unfortunately, there is no such money in the budget. And the way out, I see it is the equation. Put it on privatization and get the investor to solve all financial problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u50	Kings, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u51	If the conditions are not met, we will terminate the contract. Yeah. Let's get the government property back.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u52	Please pass the word to Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u53	Please, Bronnikov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u54	Dear Mikhail Vasiljevic, we had a beautiful Orgselmash factory in Zaporozhye, producing agricultural equipment adapted to the conditions of the south that was known both in Ukraine and in Russia. During the year, the company was bankrupt, sold under investment guarantees, and no investment was obtained. Designers, technology, highly skilled workers are being deployed without pay. And the factory started working in shadow mode. This Housing Fund Act expects the Fund to be responsible for non-compliance with investment commitments and to dispose of investment sales in a timely manner with such slum-dwellers, as Ukraine is out of agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u55	Today, the current regulatory framework allows the fund to break sales contracts if the investor does not fulfil its obligations. More than 100 contracts have been broken up, repossessed, re-selled, and then re-selled. Two of the most resonant objects are the Mycolayian Clay and Zaporezian Aluminum Combine, where we are now breaking contracts through court, trying to break contracts with Russian investors. As far as the business is concerned, we have a separate department that monitors strategic objects quarterly. According to other objects, six months of follow - up obligations. And if there's a reason to break up, we'll break the deal through court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u56	Time's up. Have a seat, please. According to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment, Demökhin Vladimir Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u57	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies! The draft Law on the State Property Fund of Ukraine is relevant. The Fund has been operating on a temporary basis for ten years. This means that the main issues have not been resolved. The draft law passed on 4 June by the Cabinet of Ministers is a compromise bill and takes into account the main positions of a number of stakeholders. The bill defines the status of the fund, its tasks, the functions of privatization, the rental and concession of public property, the administration of public property. These standards have been formulated in accordance with the Government's programme of activities. From the Committee's point of view, the Fund's submission scheme, as set out in the bill, is perhaps the only possible one today. The bill provides that the Fund shall be accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and shall be subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers. However, this formula does not cover the relationship between the Fund and the President of Ukraine and conflicts with the proposed and registered bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine. What is the accountability of the Fund in the Supreme Council of Ukraine? It is expressed in the approval of the privatization programme, the activity reports, its implementation by the Fund and the supervisory activities of the Privatization Commission of the Supreme Council. The exercise of supervisory functions vis-à-vis the Fund by the Supreme Council is effectively confirmed by the Constitutional Court on 1 July 1998. With regard to the subordination of the Holding Fund to the Cabinet of Ministers, it is possible to refer to the ambiguity of such subordination, since privatization of State property is carried out under separate procedures, which are specifically defined by privatization laws. However, according to these laws, the Fund is working largely independently with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft law also stipulates that the head of the fund is appointed for a term of five years and may be reappointed. It is not clear whether he can be appointed for a third term. In addition to the comments listed above, a number of others are listed by the People's Deputies and in the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office. The Committee, at its meeting on 17 June, decided to recommend the inclusion of the bill in the agenda of the third session, to consider it and to adopt it on first reading as a basis. The decision was taken unanimously by the Committee. The Scientific and Expert Office also believes that, as a result of the first reading, the bill can be adopted as a basis for subsequent consideration of comments and proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u58	Yes, dear colleagues, questions, please. On the board. Yes, please. Omelyan Pussy, Communist faction. I won't. Vasil Gavriluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u59	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to ask you a question: Vladimir Anatoljevic, please say, on the basis of this bill, which we are invited to adopt on first reading, can it be said that the Ukrainian State Property Fund will be under the control of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Or do we all agree that the privatization of particularly large enterprises is part of the privatization law proposed by the Fund and the same property fund law will not affect us, as the Supreme Council, to control this fund? Please state the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u60	We have not considered this issue on the committee in this regard. I can tell you my opinion: if I take this into account, so to speak, these are all points of preparation for second reading, I think that the control function will be significant enough in the Supreme Council. But I'd say we can't replace the functions here. Our role is legislative and law enforcement. We cannot assume the functions of executive power. And the control functions are yes, control, yes, I think they should be visible. Most importantly, the Holding Fund Bill would allow very transparent implementation of all privatization processes so that they would be universally available. The control function will then be easier.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u61	Ludmila Pavlovna Suprun, faction of the People's Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u62	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ludmila Suprun, NDP faction. Unfortunately, I haven't been able to speak on behalf of the faction on the previous issue about the privatization programme. And since these two programs and these two draft laws are linked, I have to use this moment to ask questions. Do you think the Property Fund, which will act under this law, will be able to implement the privatization programme that is being proposed today?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u63	I would view these two documents as documents that we will take as a basis. And to ensure that the monitoring function, the holding fund in general and the implementation of privatization programmes are carried out in a transparent, transparent and transparent manner, and that the implementation of the programme implements the basic principle that we have today declared together with the government in general is the implementation of an innovative investment approach. Basically, conceptually, yes, but for this second reading, we need to do a lot of work and address the significant shortcomings that exist today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u64	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u65	Volodymyr Anatoliyovich, please tell us why the bill states that the State Property Fund is accountable to the Supreme Council and subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers? What set of functions is part of the term "subversive" and what set of functions is part of the term "subordinate"? And why did they avoid the term "controlling"? Isn't it because we're afraid again of the President's veto? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u66	Well, I'm kind of considering these two bills, and the holding fund, including, in the context of what, the prism of the bill that is now registered: constitutional reform. And if this bill is brought into line today, provided that constitutional reform is supported, of course, the role of the Supreme Council in monitoring and accountability is greatly enhanced. Vladimir Kirilovich, if I were the author, I would probably write that. But this bill came before the draft changes to the Constitution. Well, life, dynamic takes its toll.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u67	Valentina Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u68	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear reporter, as you're looking at what we have today, we actually have a governance crisis: there is no Cabinet of Ministers law, also times 7, I think the President has vetoed; the State Property Fund Act is also considered for the seventh or eighth time. Have you analyzed the loss of the state as a committee of economic policy from the Brown movement in the government of the state sector of the economy? And do you not think that the creation of another special executive body, as provided for in paragraph 1 of the first draft, is not the norm of the Constitution? Nevertheless, the Constitution clearly speaks of formation, and it is firmly established under the administration of state ownership, directly by the Cabinet of Ministers. Such two questions. Let me answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u69	Well, the fact that we don't have the basic documents on the Cabinet of Ministers and the holding fund, of course, is negative. And in a situation where there are no rules of work, no rules of implementation, no programme clear, there, privatization, we have even considered and adopted the Programme to the Government. But there's a lot of, you know, there's some comments that actually need to be refined and taken into account -- that's negative. As far as the macroeconomic losses are concerned, I don't think anyone can answer that. Because here, in principle, what would happen if we carried out in clear compliance with market law, for example, the holding fund, or the Cabinet of Ministers. But when we have 10 years from now, 11 years from now, we have a tenth government, and who can talk about losses? It's a very difficult question. But my deep belief is that the laws of the Cabinet of Ministers are needed on the holding fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u70	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u71	Yes, even the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u72	Please sit down for a while. Let's move on to the discussion. Please explain to the board those national deputies who have signed up for the discussion. Yuri Carmazin. Our Ukraine faction, prepare Yuri Solomatin. None.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u73	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Solidarity. "Our Ukraine." Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, your honor, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Respectable citizens of Ukraine. We are told today that the position is governed by the State Property Fund. Today, the State Property Fund is unfortunately governed only by telephone instructions and no more positions, unfortunately, and resolutions. And these resolutions we've seen, unfortunately, and you know them, I'll tell you that your humble servant in one beautiful night wrote a draft law on the appointment of appropriate officials who are appointed by the agreement of the President or the Supreme Council with the agreement of the President. And that law exists today. And today, without seeing society going the other way, society has already become clear, society has already said, "We need a parliamentary-presidential republic." And you're pulling today, and you're saying that the Constitutional Court's decision is written in such a way that there's nothing in Parliament. Nothing like that! In a decision of the Constitutional Court, to your knowledge, you have declared unconstitutional only the subordination of the State Property Fund to the Supreme Council. And accountability and subversiveness are thus constitutional and binding. Now it's a different position. You write and predict that the Head of the Maintenance Fund should have as many as seven deputies. Dear friends, half of the government's property you've already given away just like that, and you've got a billion two hundred million dollars out of it when you have one Renata Ahemt's one billion seven hundred per witness. Where did it come from? Where did it come from if you gave up your predecessors for only a billion of the state’s assets. So, ladies and gentlemen, all these nonsensees that are written, "seven deputies.".. You've got three! There's nothing to sell anymore! And no "in connection with the Supreme Council." On a permanent basis with the Supreme Council, the Head of the Fund must be, on a permanent basis, stressed! And here's where the program has to be approved, and that's it. And in constant contact with the Head. Because what we're seeing, the MPs today and the Privatization Control Commission, we're saying that we can't do that. And you're writing to yourself. We have only the Henprocurator, who has not written in the law, introduced ten deputy attorneys to the Henprocuror. And the more intercessors there has been no more disorder than with the Piscus all the time, for there have been ten intercessors. And you will if you have seven. But I don't think this stupid parliament will miss and there won't be seven. Now, dear friends, can other unconstitutional things be written? I propose that it be written here as in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. I mean, the State Property Fund is accountable to the Supreme Council, both to the President and to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We'll see if there's any good presidents, so be it. The State Property Management Fund is subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And then, substitutes have to be assigned to the government by the head of the fund. We have to change. Therefore, dear friends, this law must be passed, and I will remind you who is to blame for not having the law. The law. The law that was passed in 2001 was vetoed by the President, so you all know why there is no law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u74	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, please. Prepared for Paul’s day. Please follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u75	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! So far, the Fund has been playing an anti-national role in the distribution of state property. There's nothing strange about that. The bourgeois Parliament, which is the Supreme Council of Ukraine, also adopts bourgeois laws. bourgeois laws primarily protect the modern - day modern - day Ukrainian bourgeoisie with a beastly European face. The functions of the State Property Fund need to be radically changed in order to ensure, first of all, the proper functioning of government property rather than its distribution. The Communist faction, on such a condition alone, can support the crucial change in the function of state property and the prescribed bill in the first reading in order to make the necessary adjustments to the second reading. I urge you all to cooperate with the Communist faction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u76	Mikhailo Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Prepare Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u77	Pavlovski, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Hmeljnična Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear members of the government! Dear colleagues. I want to answer a few questions that the vice president of the committee asked, and he said, "Who can count the losses that were?" I'll give you a name. During the years of privatization, Ukraine lost twice its economic potential over the years of World War II. That's what you've got. Now even think about it, the law is called the State Property Fund. And it's not about the state, it's about privatization. Now for a moment, let's imagine that it's all privatized, there's no government property, the fund needs to be dissolved immediately. So don't dig a hole. What is more, I want to support the thought that has been expressed today. We are today leaders in Europe on an equal footing of privatization. Where are we going next? Moreover, I would like to draw the President's attention that the government does not read his letter to the Supreme Council. And the message says we haven't been there in 10 years. So we have to change this path. And that's why we have to change the functions of the State Property Fund. That's the main thing. And I support our leader's statement that where functions are, there should be the realization of these functions in order to promote Ukraine's national interests. This means that we do not need to be united here with the Antimonopoly Committee in order to do something. On the other hand, the State Property Fund has to work on production concentration, otherwise against transnational companies, you don't do anything about it. It's just concentration, champions' firms, as they say in France. Otherwise, you can't go to the outside market. What's more, everyone's talking about the innovation process. The innovation process, without State support and without State enterprises, is in principle impossible. And the high technology that's there is still left in the military-industrial complex for small businesses that can't be developed in principle. This is a world experience for you. So if we want to go into the world, globalization, integration, we have to look at what's going on around and change the course of reform. And to do that, you have to write it down here. It's interesting. The State Property Fund, by the way, is all over itself. The functions of the Cabinet of Ministers and only the Cabinet of Ministers are the adoption of legal acts. The State Property Fund is now recording the adoption of legislation at the same level as the Cabinet of Ministers. So these functions need to be limited, the sovereignty of the Supreme Council left behind, and the functions should match the name. It's going to be a State Property Fund, not a private one, and so on. Therefore, the development of strategy and the participation in the development of strategy should be. And I'm sure Mikhail Vasilovich, I know him as a good deputy, but he's got some sports, he's gone to the State Property Fund, he's going to rekindle his patriotic qualities. Thank you for your attention. And it's the norm. In order for us to change these functions in principle, Solomonine, it's not the first reading, it's the first reading, it's the first reading, it's because we want to change the structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u78	Thank you. Vadim Gurov, People's Landing Group, prepare for Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u79	Vadim Gurov Krivbass. Ladies and gentlemen, I haven't been able to speak on the first issue of, well, actually, we can bring them together. Well, first of all, I was outraged by the perverse statement made by the Chairman of the Mine Fund, who said, well, all right, the deputies have already taken over the Privatization Act of Krivoroztal, you've all heard. And so every step goes with disinformation. So I am responsibly stating that no members of the delegation are involved in this matter. I filed a bill out of one proposal that would stop. To withdraw it from privatization, which we will vote on in due time. And look, there's an entirely different interpretation of this question. That's why Chechetov has to stop this practice, then you'll say you've got something going on with you, like the Inguret combo or something. You have to be honest, and you have to answer for what you said. Now I want to say one thing about the question. First of all, I'm a colleague of the Cloud who's already asked this question about the Crimsons, and I want to tell you one thing, not because I'm a poacher, but because it's not just a strategic enterprise, it's the pride of our nation, it's the foundation of the entire industry. Think about it: 1 out of every 4 tons of steel comes from "Criminal." And here's the legend that we're a commodity asset, everyone who benefits from talking about it. This combination gives 100 per cent a final reprocessing, and no one is processing it after. It's a pearl in ours, so to speak, a necklace. So simple, in three days we went to privatize this business. Then the value is already stated by Chechetov that there are about 2 billion bracelets. Two billion gruel! Every year he makes a billion dollars in net profits, and he doesn't have a price! If you're selling, that's $2 billion minimum! Just recently in the press, I looked at the lagging countries -- Argentina, Chile and so on -- and saw how they got out of the situation, what they privatized. And I'm looking at the figures: $30 billion, $40 billion. And we've sold 1 billion of them all the time, and we're still proud of it. I therefore consider one thing: this law, which has now been passed, and the first and second, must be read again, so there is no, so to speak, what is required for our country at this stage. Let them work, let's see, they'll take our comments into account. And the question of "Criminal," I think, is the MP's, he understands what to do, and we're just not going to let that happen at this point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u80	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u81	Dear colleagues! The State Property Fund is outside the law, and therefore it is ineffective in performing its functions from the point of view of national interests. It's probably a good thing for someone. I want to draw your attention to the trend: the adoption of property laws is blocked. The State Property Fund Act has not been adopted until now; it has been committed three times. The Law on the Cabinet of Ministers is dedicated, the Law on the Management of State Property in the First Reading adopted 2 years ago is not yet under consideration. [[Law of the Deputy Semenjuk]] The Law on the Rights of Municipal Property is also being blocked. And that's all, of course, by no chance. Some people find it convenient to fish in the calamite water. Of course, it's the Supreme Council's fault, it's beyond question. But it does not promise the laws of the Supreme Council and block their adoption, and the Supreme Council also blocks many things, but not only and perhaps not so much the Supreme Council. So there's a question: how do we unlock this process? Perhaps then we will be allowed to do so when everything is accepted. Now it's about the law that we're considering right now. It's all about the game of words: the Supreme Council's State Property Fund and the Cabinet of Ministers. It's all done to avoid the word "controlled." That's why the State Property Fund Act was promised, which reads, "Controlling the Supreme Council." And this bill was prepared in time, even at the time of the confrontation between the President and the Supreme Council. I think that in new circumstances, when we have mutual love, well, at least in many, I think there's good reason to write in this bill: "Controlling Supreme Council." And perhaps there will be no more opposition. And that, by the way, is a profile committee proposal. I am in favour of adopting this bill, and it is not possible to delay and strengthen the functions of the State Property Fund in the privatization process and in the management of parts of government property. And last of all, with regard to the Privatization Programme. I understand all those who have opposed it and have reasons for it, but I want to ask you, if we don't accept the privatization programme, will we stop the process of looting state property or not? Clearly not. The program needs to be adopted, of course, one that meets the needs. Because there is a lot of ownership going on outside the privatization process, it's priceless and it's not effective. So we have to think about how to strengthen the Supreme Council's control function, and without the adoption of the Privatisation Programme, we can't reinforce that function. We need to prepare a real privatization program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u82	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u83	The faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! The Special Supervisory Commission, at its meeting, examined in detail the Law on the State Property Fund and unanimously decided to support the bill. We came out, first of all, from the fact that those functions that are approved in the position, first of all, and allow the foundation to work today, not on the basis of law, but on the basis of similar resolutions, instructions, telephone rights. That's why the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers and the State Property Fund have to be adopted in pairs and introduced in order to have executive power, and that's what the Socialists and representatives of other factions are offering today to change the Constitution. I want to turn to you and start my speech on the question that Mr. Demiokin asked or we calculated in Ukraine the results of the so-called loss from the administrative crisis when there are no such bills. I can get these numbers. Ukraine’s budget for January 1, 1991, was 95 billion. If I were to translate it into inflation, it was $87 billion. Ukraine's 2003 budget is 56 billion dollars, or 10.2 billion dollars. This is the result of the management crisis, this is the result of the reforms that are under way today. So, as one Belarusian woman said, "Don't let God live in a period of charpanic." In order for the State Property Fund not to live in a period of saffronism, laws must be passed and they must actually work. Because the State Property Fund will rely on the reprivatization mechanism and we'll take you into this room, especially since the law was adopted in the first reading. Life itself will indicate that such a law should be. I've been talking about this since 1994. If we have privatization, there should always be a mechanism for correcting mistakes. And if the state has made mistakes, it must correct them now with regard to specific articles. The first paragraph of the article states that the State Property Fund is the central authority of the executive branch with special status. However, Article 6, paragraphs 10 and 114 and 120 of the Constitution does not provide for the existence of central executive bodies with special status. That's why we've also discussed this at the committee meeting, and we think that this proposal from the committee, about the subordination of the State Property Fund, has to be clearly written down, especially since we have a decision by the Constitutional Court, so that there are no similar cases that I've been talking about when I'm considering the Privatization Program. There's something else I want to pay attention to. Today, after the adoption of the Law on Reprivatization, the State Property Fund will be the body that will be under constant public and public scrutiny, and primarily the duties of those workers who should not comply. Because the middle class that's being born, that branch of entrepreneurs that are today creating jobs, shouldn't fall under the reprivatization mechanism of those clans that want to destroy such businesses. And this task with us is going to be, we have to use the democratization mechanism when we adopt this document. The Socialist Party faction, the Special Supervisory Commission, clearly says that the State Property Fund should work on the basis of the law, not on the basis of the President's instructions to sell to whom, for what and for what costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u84	Dear colleagues! The draft law on the State Property Fund has been completed. We will make a decision taking into account the discussion that took place today. You think we'll be able to look into it. The draft State Law is being announced for consideration. Oh, I'm sorry. It's a draft law on railroad troops. Please, the reporter is Abdoulayev Elbrus Farman-ogle, Deputy Minister of Transport. Please, very quickly, quickly. Prepare Vasile Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u85	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Ministry of Transport has developed a draft Ukrainian law on railway forces, which has become the basis for drafting the bill by national MP Gladys Vasil Ivanovich, and is under review today. The basis for the drafting of this bill is the Ukrainian President's decree to transfer the Ukrainian Armed Forces' railway forces to the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine and Ukraine's law on the operation of Ukraine's only transport system during a special period where the Ministry of Transport is tasked with ensuring technical cover-up for the reconstruction of the links. objects and structures of defence value. At present, the technical protection of railways is regulated by a decree of the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine to approve the technical cover-up of railways during a special period and in the event of natural disasters, accidents, and disasters in peacetime. There is another legal instrument that regulates this activity. The railways are the most mobile and organized part of the technical cover, which runs about 50 percent of the rail network, and they run and operate all of the state's floating bridges, the state's railway networks. Many tasks are being performed in close collaboration with the construction and repair organizations and the special formations of the University. Railways are special forces that carry out their tasks in peace and wartime in the interests of the transportation of Ukraine’s national economy, military forces, and the elimination of the effects of reconstruction and construction in natural disasters, accidents, and accidents in transport. The implementation of the aforementioned law will allow for the preservation of the railways and compensation of the State budget for their maintenance by carrying out practical work on transport facilities. In the event of the acceptance of troops, the Ministry of Transport plans to carry out the following workloads. In the current year, 4 million dollars, in 2004, increase by five times 21 million dollars, and in 2005 by 45 million dollars of work for the transportation complex. The cost of economic activity is planned to be distributed as follows: 10 percent to the General Fund of the State Budget, 90 percent to the Special Fund of the State Budget, and further use of the approved grant. Thus, the State budget can receive more than 2 million dollars in 2004 and more than 4 million dollars in 2005 in the budget. And these costs will be earmarked for the maintenance of the military and will reduce the cost of the State budget. The adoption of this law will enable efficient structures to be created to deal with the technical coverage of the transport facility, to rebuild and improve the use of defence-related facilities, to eliminate the consequences of natural disasters, accidents, accidents in transport, to bring railway forces closer to the facilities of work, to ensure their use and management, and to improve the efficiency of the use of state assets secured by the railway forces, to strengthen its material and technical base, to upgrade technical equipment and equipment at the level of modern requirements, to improve the material position of military personnel and to reduce the pressure on Ukraine’s State budget. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u86	Yes, Your Honor, is there a question for the First Deputy Minister? Please sign up for five minutes. On the board. National MP Spivacuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u87	Vladimir Spiwiachuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Dear reporter, would you please tell me if we were to create one if we were to step out of the President's decree, who was actually illegally transferring troops to your command, which is very often illegal, should we not create more troops on air transport, maritime transport, bus transport and so on? What's more, let's say that if it's already coming, if it's happening, there's going to be both intelligence and the Security Service, and so on and so forth. By what time will we be tearing this apparatus apart, and for what time will we be doing so? I'm asking you to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u88	Of course, in my speech, I said that the railways are specialized military units that perform both in peace and in military time, covering for rail transport. And so, of course, there's no need to explain that it's in other areas of the transport complex, it doesn't need a special attitude. With regard to its use, of course, by performing a technical cover, 43 percent of the total length of railways is done by law to the Ministry of Transport, 46 percent, well. Up to 50 percent for the railways. We have related functions both in measure and in military time. Hence, it can certainly be from the experience of some countries. function in the Ministry of Transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u89	Basil Calinchuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u90	Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Elbros Farmanovitch, I have two questions for you. But I would like to say in advance that, indeed, the adoption of the bill will create the necessary legislative basis for the functioning of the railway forces of the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine. And that's what it takes, of course. But that's my first question. How much does it take to keep the railways going? But what will be the result of funding, either at the expense of the State Budget or at the expense of the economic activity of the railway forces? That's the first question. And the second question. How does the bill of government differ from the bill of the national deputy of Gladys? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u91	Thank you for asking. The general need for the 2004 period alone is for the maintenance of the railway forces of 50 million dollars. Of course, given that what we're planning on using the railways to do business, some of the money they're going to make on their own through a special fund. I said 90 percent of what I earned would go to the railroads themselves, and 10 percent of what I earned went straight to the budget. Therefore, taking into account the planned compensation for partial maintenance on the basis of economic activity, the budget expenditure will need to be 29 million in 2004. This year it's 29.6 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u92	National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u93	And by what, I apologize.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u94	People's MP Pavlük. None. Valerius Assadchev, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u95	Thank you. Mr. Reporter, I would still like you to explain more in detail: do you take yourself to the Ministry of Transport with a simple force that will be called upon and used to do certain jobs, and someone will then, as it were, take advantage of this, as today's Department of Transport, by the way, untargeted use of the funds that the same Crossroads is making? And then, I want to understand, the Ministry of Transport will then become a force structure for us, a military structure, because it's going to have military parts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u96	I spoke about the assignment of the railway forces in the presentation, and I answered the question. And so I can repeat once again what the railway forces have a special assignment, and they can only be used for a special purpose, which will be defined in the law. With regard to their use in peacetime, it will be discussed and presented in funds, projects and plans for the development of Ukraine's transport network. And according to the state of the treasure, it's been approved. will be used and paid for this commercial activity of the railway. That's the only way we plan to use them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u97	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u98	Thank you. You know, I have a question right now, first of all, and it's a fellow MP, and I think it's worrying: why didn't the minister himself come to protect what I think is important to him? Is the question secondary or already resolved, so he did not come here even though he was here with us? That's one question. And the second. I would really like you to justify the need for military formations for the railway. I don't understand, we've already agreed to a tax police, and we'll soon agree on military formations, for the foresters, for the jegers, for many, we still have a lot of structures that we can arm and put under. Go to the lava. You know, I can't understand: it's who we have to protect this army, move passengers, or connect routes so they don't steal copper wire from. Just motivated, please, in two words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u99	Railways, I repeat for the fourth time these are designed to provide technical cover for railways, both in peacetime and in military time. Now I'm going to explain, I'm going to make a mistake, I have to say, what is technical? The technical cover-up of railways is a complex of operations and works carried out on used railways to quickly restore the movement of trains in the event of their destruction. This destruction can result both from military action and from accidents, from technological catastrophes. The technical coverage of railways includes: early railways in preparation, the opening up of villages, and technical cover - up of restoration planning. Early preparations include increasing the capacity of railways and the creation of their reserve, and this is done in peacetime, I emphasize. Construction of new railway lines, especially those that are of great importance to the security of the state, the bypasses, railway nodes, approaches, bridges, tunnels, the preparation and mobilization of technical cover forces, the accumulation of recovered materials, structures, and so forth, which will be necessary for the restoration of construction work. And the use of special units, special equipment, and equipment used in these activities. This is the assignment of the railway forces. And so to say that they will protect someone, something, passengers, or trains, is not exactly an accurate interpretation of this concept of the assignment of railway cars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u100	Thank you. Please sit down for a while. For my co-report, I invite Vasil Ivanovich Gladky - Head of the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u101	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. I want briefly on the basis of the questions asked by the First Deputy Minister, to stop and not read out everything I wanted to say under my bill. First of all, the railways are the most mobile and organized part of the technical cover, which is carrying out about 50 percent of the rail network. And in our time when the country's economy is being reformed and the structural reconstruction and reduction of the armed forces are taking place, it is very important not to lower the economic and defence potential of the state. In solving this national problem, particular mention is made of the willingness of rail transport, the provision of transport infrastructure for a state that, in peacetime and during a special period, or wartime where drinking the weight of military transport by rail may amount to up to 80 percent. The basic differences between my bill and the government. In the first paragraph of the article, the second was added, "Planning for technical cover-up." Unfortunately, no one is currently in the planning business. However, planning for a technical cover is particularly important because it depends directly on the operational, clear functioning of the railway forces, both in peace and during a special period. Article four clearly defines the total number of railway troops: ten thousand. But in the final positions, for the smallest amount of effort on the budget, the total number of troops is going to increase by years, provided that the number of troops increases to 10,000 people is created by full production teams, the optimal loading rate of the individual will be 60-65 percent, which will allow for an increase in the state budget. In article 5 of the bill, we offer to recognize the command of the military unit, the establishment and organization of the railway forces by legal persons who have a seal on the image of the State Herb of Ukraine and their appointment. Our committee supports the bill with only one comment, namely, establishing the total number of railway troops up to 10,000. This will be done in 2 readings along with the proposal to create a technical cover-up for transport and phased reform of the railway forces. The D.A. said what "technical cover" is, so I'm not going to repeat myself. I believe that this law must be upheld because it is very important today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u102	Question, five minutes. Sign up. If you don't mind, let's continue our work to complete this consideration. On the board, please. Well, to finish the discussion. What are you, respectable colleagues? Valery Assadchev, please. "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u103	Thank you. I'm still, you know, civilian, not military, but I want to understand. So now we're going to have the generals, the generals, with the names, they have to get the corresponding salaries, pensions. We don't have anywhere to spend the budget? Today, I'm sorry, these robots make repair teams that are supposed to do, civilian. Some construction works have to be done on tenders at all if we're going to the market economy. Who's gonna do that now? Soldiers are free, and the generality will explode, as it were, these states. We don't know where the generals working with all the social benefits they have anymore. Thank you. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u104	Well, I would like to say that the construction brigades that are currently working at the Urzaliznica are undergoing major repairs, and the railway troops are designed to carry out these tasks in case of unforeseen circumstances. And what I can now illustrate is what railway forces did when emergencies occurred. First, they participated in the construction of the Dnepropetrovsk Metro, the construction of tram tracks in Dnipropetrovsk, Konotap, Kriveh Roz, in the elimination of the consequences of the natural disaster in Zakarpatt and the city of Dnipropetrovsk, at a time of a floating rail bridge of 565 metres across the Right and Cherniv, which worked for another three months, while the highway was repaired through the Kastovka. That's why the railways were before that. We didn't invent the bike, they were in the system when there was power. And now it has to be. And I'll give you an example of railway troops in other countries. I'll give you an example: in Britain, Germany, Spain, Italy, in the United States, France, they are present in China. That's why it's necessary, I think, ours, if you're fighting for an independent Ukraine, must be the railways. They must be.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u105	National Deputy Kosinov, non-fractional. You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u106	Yes. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Kosinov, 170 district, town of Harikov. Vassili Ivanovich, you said that one of the functions planned for railway troops was to deal with the consequences of accidents in transport. Tell me, please, why can't the U.S.M.S. Force handle these accidents?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u107	They do lifesaving work, first aid, and evacuation. In addition, railway forces can carry out the full range of tasks assigned to the MCS, and they are able to rebuild and build objects that allow for the rapid and rapid restoration of the traffic. If you are using passenger transport, you can see, if there is an accident, the trains are delayed to 10-15 hours. Therefore, these railway forces must be used expeditiously.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u108	Come on, please. Instead of the little boy, Yeshchenko, please. Microphone. Is it still there? The man is passing the word to Eshchenko, please. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u109	Fucking Communist faction. Please pass the word "Hinsburg" to Olga Petrovney.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u110	Olga Hinzburg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u111	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I don't know how much. That's the question, because I have these railway forces in Konotapa, and there's a lot of problems. Here we had a 60-year-old celebration, and it was kind of a pity to look at these soldiers who didn't even have uniforms. We have to do something. But I have this question for you: please tell me, the military remains subordinated to the Ministry of Defense. How will these men, soldiers, be called to service in the railway army? I didn't get it. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u112	They do not belong, but they will be attached, the general operating command will appoint the General Headquarters of the Armed Forces. The same calls as usual will be made through the Ministry of Defence. And in the future, this will be reform, and they will also go on a contractual basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u113	Thank you, sit down, Vasil Ivanovich. From the Committee on Security and National Defence, Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u114	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Let me tell you the position of our committee on this issue. The committee advocates the preservation of this special structure and the transfer of it to the Ministry of Transport, which in our view will allow for the development and effective use of it in the interests of the State. But we believe, first, that this structure should be demilitarized in peacetime. Unfortunately, the project is looking at a line for militarization. For example, we had a chief of railway forces, now we are offered to have a commanding railway army, as it were, on the fleet or anywhere. And the other moments are there. That doesn't match the line that's currently being held in the state. First steps have been taken to demilitarize the border service, to turn internal forces, demilitarized, and we make railway troops even more militarized. This is perceived negatively in society. Of course, during a special period, this service should be subordinated to the General Staff, and in peacetime, we believe that it should be converted into a special transportation service. Let this be a public service, a special transportation service, not an army, not an army. The other one. Under this special service, the social guarantees used by the military officers of the railway forces must be preserved right now. Third. Given the nature of the tasks that rely on this service, it is necessary in the law to establish the order of relations with the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff, because the service must be ready at any time, converted, prepared for the subordination of the General Staff, and the order of its assembly, with a complete contractual transition. This will remove many other problems in general. The main observations are made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. And especially there is a sign that there should be control by the Supreme Council, which is not in the law right now. I have to express my regret at the fact that the position of our committee has been notified to the committee at the right time, but it has not been taken into account. If these comments and other comments can be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading, they could be accepted in the first reading, but under such a condition. If this is not possible, then the bill should be returned for rereading. That's the position of our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u115	Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine, prepare the Lion of Lukyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u116	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I am saddened to see what could happen to the railway forces, more specifically the Law on Railway fasteners, because it was said that 2, 3, 10 million would make us. Who counted and how much will be spent? Who counted it? So, you know, Elbrus Farmanovich, I came back three days ago from Lviv, where at the invitation of the labor team of the Lviv Airlines, you saw what you did there, Mintrans, what you did, what a crime in aviation! Your experiment! I think that in the near future we'll get this discussion of this experiment, its results, so that the entire Ukrainian people can see that they're all working for -- who? - for the structure that is in the State of Israel, everyone is working completely. And that's why Aeroworld has captured how many flights are convenient today, and that's why it's all gone. If the same context concerns the issue now, then I would like to say that - firstly, exchange work is put on the Armed Forces and Civil Defence Officers, who are in the Ministry's emergency subordination - once; article 16 of the Transport Act: "Business, Institutions, Exploiting Organizations, Exploitation Organizations, Radioactive, Poisonous and Other Dangerous Goods are bound to guarantee security" - that is, without the military, they are obliged to guarantee. [[order of the Ministry of Defence on May 26, 2000, number 153, order of MNC 243 of September 18, 2000]] Next. Article 15 of the Law on Transport relies on businesses and transportation to take urgent measures to eliminate the effects of natural disasters. And so I can continue to argue that this is absolutely unnecessary. Today in the subway, the system is broken down -- what are we doing, the subway? It was a long time ago, in war, when there were generals and forces, you remember, it was, but it's a story. And today only 2 wishes are: this is, first, a formal reduction of the Armed Forces not to show this reduction; and secondly, the provision of cheap labor as construction units. There is no more justification for this. In addition, the law completely unconsciously excludes any control of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What are we doing?Oh, my God! So you're breaking even those agreements. which are already signed by NATO, with other civilized countries. That's why I'm addressing the head of the Committee of Hooks. This law does not suit Ukraine’s interests; it does not suit the interests of the defenders of the country. So I ask, as I have done, enough courage in the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration of the Head of which Matsuk wrote: "The results of the first reading should be rejected." Find courage and you are all national deputies and reject this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u117	Levko Grigorovich Lukyanenko, next School
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u118	Dear Head! Lukyanenko Ukrainian Republican Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block Deputies! Indeed, the National Security and Defence Committee had long discussed the bill and thought divided. The hamsters basically gave us our warnings correctly. But there's something I'd like to add. First. It is the President's own decree that is illegal, and it is not clear why the President went for it. Because the problem of reforming the Armed Forces and other creation of all armed units is the issue of the Supreme Council, and that is why the President has exceeded his mandate. So this is the first one. The other one. That the reasoning of the supporters of the formation of the railway forces does not withstand criticism because all the work that is still being done and can still be done. There are special engineering units, there are engineering units, and so on, which do both railways and repairs and so on. These services exist in the state, and they can do so perfectly. So there is no need to transfer these troops from the army to the Ministry of Rail Transport. The very idea of transferring an army of military units to the Ministry of Rail Transport is contrary to our idea of you, honourable deputies, which is to make our society minimally militarized. The process of democratization of society means that paramilitary structures in society must be minimal. We are moving away from the time we were wearing all the military uniforms and from the spread of very different military units. Democratization of society means that it is necessary to reduce it. Finally, the transfer of military units to the Ministry of Rail Transport is even in danger, because the proliferation of military forces scattered between different ministries can potentially be very dangerous, and we have to understand that, and that is why we must not allow it. So I propose not to adopt this law, but to turn it back into a first-reading one. The problem of repairs, railway accidents, and so forth must be discussed in connection with the existence of the Ministry of Emergency Situations and the fact that we already have services that build railways, and bridges are being built, and so on. It's in a complex like this, and it's on a peaceful basis, so it doesn't have to be paramilitary armies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u119	Please, Andrew School, next Dentist.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u120	Thank you, School Andrew, the faction of Julia Timoshenko, the Ukrainian National Assembly. I'd like to point out, first of all, that these kinds of bills are pushing us to continuously legislate illegal decrees: either the President, or the Kabmin, or anyone else. And second, you know, it reminds me of that story that was in the Middle Ages. So there was an estimate of how many armies he could put out. This, by the way, has been seen in recent conflicts in the Soviet Union. In particular, in Georgia it was clear, it even introduced the concept of a cooperative army. I mean, there were entrepreneurs there, and they were putting out armed forces that were fighting in one direction or another. Here I also have the impression that the level of prestige of the railway should be calculated by the number of military formations that will be there. And these are all words, howling about what's still going to be a simple summons. Nevertheless, these armies will have clear subordination in the army. But why are we transferring them to the railroad? Because it's like they're serving the railroad. There is the minister of education of the Kremlin. The police are guarding the school now. Let us create an educational police within the Ministry of Education, which, in view of the fact that it protects schools, is very much in line. I don't know if only the Ministry of Education is going to pull, because I've come to realize that the Ministry of Transport can attract 10,000 people. It's going to increase by 2 on one side, and you can also do that. The army is not shrinking. But on the other hand, there's direct reordering. It's a different situation. Then let's eliminate the Ministry of Emergency Situations. What will it do? Because there's practically a substitution of functions here. And the substitution of functions is not provided for by both the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. If the Ministry does certain functions, no other entity has the right to replace it and no other structure has the right to replace it. That's why I don't think we have the right to do it again, because we have to reject this bill so that other ministries don't have to do it, because that's not the problem. I don't mind having a large army, I'm a great supporter of our own to have railway forces, but railway forces directly subjugating the army and the state, the Supreme Council, including. And when we talk about what we call cooperative formations, we should call things our names. By the way, why cooperative? Because we were just discussing the privatization law here. So let's imagine a picture. The railway is privatized, isn't it? And the troops are privatized? How, then, will you protect your private property from those who work on this private property? So once again, we don't have the right to just put, as they say, these bills to be discussed. That's what profile committees are supposed to do. Profile committees should not bring this up for sessional discussions. Because, believe me, gentlemen, this is only taking time, because we have a clear position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u121	The word is "Zubovo". The next one is Domansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u122	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I wanted to highlight procedural issues. I inform the Bureau that 60 national deputies were sent to the Constitutional Court three months ago a request for the President's order to transfer railway troops to the Ministry of Transport of the Constitution of Ukraine. To date, we have not yet received the reply of the Constitutional Court. In my opinion, from a procedural point of view, we should simply withdraw this bill from the debate at all before the Constitutional Court on the President's decree. It's procedural. Now from a political point of view. Dear friends, in my opinion, such laws simply discredit the Supreme Council that we are considering them at all. We have nothing to do but solve the issues of militarization of the Ministry of Transport. Is this the main bill that needs attention from Parliament today? You are politicians all, you know, that any bill in the room should be considered when there is a social need for it, when a bill solves a very serious political, economic problem. What problem does this bill solve? None. Politically. I'll tell you economically. Although he was a representative of the Ministry, he said beautifully that there were objective preconceptions and so forth. It's just not an argument. The main task is the economics of this bill and the political one. Economic what? Get free labor. As long as we're talking about a professional army, 3-5 years the Ministry of Transport will be miserablely exploiting the soldiers of the railway forces, earning profits, not paying real wages. And look at the bill, and you'll see that today the railways are 5,000 for today, and the bill predicts an increase to 10,000 -- that's your goal. That's the first one. And secondly, why are the railway forces being transferred to the Ministry of Transportation with Armed Forces? You understand the precedent we're setting: the Ministry of Transport will have 10,000 automatics at its disposal. Why? I have a question: Why is that? I think the answer here might be definite. So I support my fellow national MPs who think that this bill should be removed from the discussion at all. And that also requires a procedural part, because we have not yet received 60 people's deputies, we have not received a conclusion from the Constitutional Court regarding the compliance of the President's decree with the functioning Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u123	Anatoly Ivanovich Domansky, please. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u124	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Now let us go down to our sinful land. The Ministry of Transport and the Railways has nothing to do with this. The reform of the Armed Forces is under way. Ten years ago, someone in this room was sitting there yelling, "Why do we need strategic missiles, why do we need nuclear weapons? Let's destroy him!" Destroyed! Will you call me at least one State that has voluntarily given away nuclear weapons, is it smart or stupid? Or are we very smart? Then we screamed from this rostrum, "Let's destroy the strategic bombers!" Today fate has reached the railway forces. And it's not a question of whether or not they should be. We are saying that it is this category of professionals that must be preserved. They don't need them today, they'll be needed tomorrow. How do you do that? There is a reform of the Armed Forces, and we need to reduce the army by 100,000. Let's make the decision to fire, cut the hardware into scrap metal before we see each other, and we don't need the railroad troops today. And tomorrow they'll be needed. That's why the question today is how to keep them out of the Army and keep this structure. We suggest the first, indeed, they do. I met with the Minister of Transport, I met with the commander, the chief. Comrade Malkovsky's troops, I've met with the personnel of these troops, I've met with the Ministry of Defence, that they think only of themselves, they think of the State, and how to preserve that structure. Next. The railway forces now have a unilateral appointment. They are only designed to deal with the challenges of wartime. We want to make them a two-way assignment, both in peace and in wartime. In peacetime, they will build railway bridges, restore bridges that will begin to move today, build new railways, expand the network, serve. Who's scared? Do you want to do that? This is where Shkell spoke. He's afraid of guns. What kind of weapons do railways have? He doesn't know, their main weapons have sheets, rails, skeletons, hammers that they're killing, here's their main weapons, to the pantons, when they're driving, to build bridges through water barriers. You tell me, today you're afraid of the arms of the railway forces, how many thousands of them are at gunpoint today? 30,000 people are standing with rifles today, guarding guns, guarding bridges. And that the 5,000 people who have spoken here, my esteemed lawyer, will complicate the situation, and we will have a counter-revolution. I think someone's going out on this rostrum just to say something. First, I would like to reform the Armed Forces. As for the President's decree, I am not in favour of the President, but the President has approved a programme to reform the Armed Forces. Today, the fate of railways has come to the fore, what should we do with them? They don't need peacetime for the Armed Forces, because we don't give the budget money, feed it, dress it, they'll earn it themselves. In order for them to earn and be willing to carry out their tasks in time of war, they must be transferred to the Ministry of Transport. And the second. They remain as if they were dual-purpose. For a special period, they shall immediately be transferred without any General Staff and shall carry out the tasks of protecting our Fatherland. I think we need to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The vote will take place in accordance with the Rules. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., the Supreme Council meeting.
