ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:34]] Registered -438 There are 438 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we continue our consideration of the issues, according to Tuesday’s schedule of meetings. The Draft Ordinance on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Establishment of a Temporary Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Drafting of Ukrainian Laws on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. There are two projects. I'd like to consult you, Your Honor, whether we need to discuss them or if we'd listened to the opinion of the committee head and then we'd go to the vote. Please, Valentin Grigorovich Matthews.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, the above-mentioned draft regulations. concerning the amendments made by the Provisional Commission to draft laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine were made to the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, and were therefore not formally considered at its meetings, and only tomorrow are these issues placed in the agenda of the Committee on Rules. But the committee has been working on these issues and is considering for tomorrow the Committee's decision to support the first draft of a decision that only proposes to make changes to one name, and that may be logical, instead of the former First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Vasiliev, to the composition of the Temporary Commission, i.e., as a co-chair, to introduce, not by a party principle, not by a party sign, but in accordance with the current position of Martinik Adam Ivanovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u3	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues! Just a minute. I want to explain the essence of the issue, the essence of the problem. We have two co-chairs of the Commission to draft laws amending the Constitution. The heads were Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz and Hennaday Andrievich Vasiliev. Hennady Andryovich Vasiliev, you know, can no longer be the co-chair of the commission. An initiative was made by the deputies to propose that Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk be co-chaired by the commission. A proposal was also made for the commission to be co-chaired by Gabriels Stepan Bogdanovich. And that makes sense, let me put it bluntly, my fellow citizens, because we have both the majority and the opposition. The composition of the committee is proportional to what we have. Adam Ivanovich is a member of this commission. But since we have two draft regulations, they don't come off the agenda, so we have every reason to put them in order of arrival, of registration, if there's no objection. Let's exchange thoughts, five minutes. Please sign in. On the board, please have a name. Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u4	I ask you to pass the word to the Roadman.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u5	Alexander the Road.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u6	Thank you, Your Honor Vassil Ivanovich. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Having nothing against Adam Ivanovich as a regular member of the commission, I would like to point out that the matter was still not in office. Because when you look at the position, you don't understand why Alexander Alexander the Great is headstrong. The question was thus asked. Hennady Andrievich Vasiliev represents the majority, Alexander Alexandrovich, of the opposition and the interested party in the development of the constitutional reform project. In this case, if we follow a formal sign, there will be a situation that will not actually allow the commission to work. There can't be two heads representing one spectrum of opposition. So it would be the right thing to do, and we made a draft decision yesterday, and we ask you to consider it. If we really want constitutional reform to be co-elected by Stephen Bogdanovich Gavrish. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u7	Yes, please, Basil Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u8	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I have worked with Adam Ivanovich for a long time on the committee, and I consider him to be a very important, reasonable person. I support this proposal. But I also want to say what my previous speaker said about what is needed and what is needed of most. So I propose to support Stephen Bogdanovich Gavrish so that there are two co - heads. Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u9	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u10	Thank you. It's a faction of socialists. Please pass the word to Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u11	Alexander Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! I want to remind both Alexander Viktorovich of the Road, and colleagues who just spoke on the basis that the commission was created on a proportional basis, and I was chosen as co-chair because I was the initiator of the Law on Amendments to the Constitution, not because I represent opposition. And Vasiliev was put in charge as co-chair in order to organize this work on behalf of the Governing Body. And today, Martinyuk does not represent opposition because he does not belong to any faction as a leader, one of the leaders of the Supreme Council. So, in principle, it doesn't matter because the composition didn't change the commission itself. And if we have to maintain proportions for most, and more on the Constitutional Commission, then they can introduce another member instead of Vasiliev and remove this problem, because it's about technology, about organizing meetings, preparing all the things that are necessary and all that sort of thing. So, look, make sure you do what you want. I think it's technologically better if Martinuk is a co-head.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u13	Anatoly Frost, please. What can I do, winter on the street, it's cold.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u14	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Communist faction, Zaporez region. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I think there's been a lot of suggestions here that, really, regardless of who's acting today as the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, I think the co-chair of the commission should choose Martiny Adam Ivanovich. What's more, Alexander Alexander Moroz correctly said that Adam Ivanovich today is both said to be non-fractional and non-party, and so on. He's doing those, I'm sorry, non-fractional. He's the first deputy head of the Supreme Council, and he's going to reflect the interests of our Supreme Council. So let's put Vladimir Mikhailovich to the vote, and I apologize for what I said. Adam Ivanovich, I think when he took this position, said clearly and clearly what he was, he remained that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u15	Roman Zvaric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you did not do well in commenting on these two decrees. I would ask them to refrain from such comments for the future. And with regard to these candidates, I would like to remind you and all the people's deputies that, at the time of the election of Hennadia Vasiliev as co-chair of this commission, he was not a member of the faction that is part of the parliamentary majority. I would also like to remind all of us that Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk was chosen not by the voices of opposition, but he became the first representative of the Supreme Council, mainly by the votes of the parliamentary majority. So there are more arguments to say that Adam Ivanovich here represents the majority, not the opposition. But it doesn't matter either. What matters most is what Alexander Alexanderustrich Moroz said. And the last. The head of the regular profiling committee has already spoken of the fact that they have not yet been able to prepare this issue, and there is no decision by the profiling committee on this issue. According to the Constitution, this issue should be discussed first in the committee prepared by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u17	Right. Dear colleagues, time is up. I'll keep you posted. May I have your attention, please? We discussed this issue on the Conciliation Council. The argument was made by Alexander Aleksandrovitch about the need to organize the work of the Supreme Council, sorry, the commission on the matter. I would like to say that I accept Roman Zvaric's observation that Stephen Bogdanovich Gavrish and Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk are members of this commission. I think we're all interested in getting the commission's organized work on a high level. But since this is essentially a political issue, I'm going to put it to the vote in order to register these documents. Please make up your mind, and then we'll make the right decision. So I put to the vote the order number 4386 on the election of Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk as co-chair of this commission. [[16:11:56]] For 178. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Yes, thank you. And now I am voting for Supreme Council resolution 4386-1 on the election of Stephen Bogdanovich Gavrish as co-chair of the temporary special commission of the Supreme Council by releasing Vasilyev’s co - head, Gennady Andriyovich, i.e. ruling 4386-1. Please vote. [[16:12:51]] For 239. Decision taken. The factions, please. Asadchev from procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u18	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have told you on many occasions that you are actually pushing opposition to extremes because you are directly, insolently, violating the Rules. If the committee has not considered it, it is not clear why it is voting. Secondly, the ruling you have now voted on sets deadlines for this matter by the Supreme Council. This is before the Constitutional Court has reached its conclusions, there is no conclusion of the Constitutional Court, and when they are, it is still unknown. So I would just like to ask you again, we have no other chance of defending the Constitution and the Rules than of extreme measure. And you personally, you, Litwin, will be responsible for this, because you're not leaving us any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u19	It's not Litwin, it's Litwin. Please study my last name first, and then you'll make me a note. [[Applause]] Please, National Deputy Catherinechuk. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u20	Ladies and gentlemen of the national party, the honourable speaker! I hate to say it, but we need to understand the depth of the process that we are going into with regard to the Constitution. I am very sorry for the head of the Supreme Council today when he is so rudely violating the Rules. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! You can't, you're creating a crisis, and this crisis is going to have some consequences. We want to work without pressure, we can agree on constitutional reform, we have everything for it. And we are ready to work, we are ready to compromise, but please abide by the Rules, because our capacity for minorities, to protect the rights of our voters, is only in the Constitution and the Rules. I call you to the Rules! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u21	Thank you. I'll take all the notes and take them into account at work. But what I want to say is that at the Conciliation Council meeting, with the participation of the factions of our Ukraine, the "Our Ukraine" bloc, I'm sorry, this issue has been discussed. And there were no problems. The heads of the commission are, on the one hand, the representative of the opposition, on the other hand, the majority. The composition of the commission was proportionate, that is, no problem. If you see this problem, make a proposal, let's put it to a vote and vote. Let's do it this way. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. It is a draft law on the approval of the President of Ukraine’s decision to deploy a peacekeeping contingent for Ukraine’s participation in the United Nations mission in Liberia. We've been discussing this. There's a letter from the President to your attention, please. Come on, let's say the word! A letter from the President of Ukraine has been brought to your attention. I put it before the Conciliation Council. I think you have this document. Calm down! I haven't finished yet, I haven't finished yet! Sit down! We'll talk to you now. Let me put it this way, and then we'll talk about it. Can I say it? Calm down! Sit down! Yuri Anatolyevich, you are a tolerant man, please sit down. Dear colleagues, we discussed this issue on the Conciliation Council. Taking into account the President’s letter and his suggestion to return to the matter. I'll read you this letter. "Dear People's Deputies, this is a letter from the President, please listen, I am addressing you in connection with the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the granting of an agreement on the deployment of a peacekeeping contingent for Ukraine in the UN mission in Liberia. The President's decision of 10 November 2003 on this issue was based on UN Security Council resolutions 1497 of 1 August 2003 and 1509 of 19 September 2003, which established the United Nations Mission in Liberia and called on UN Member States to provide multinationals with appropriate personnel, technology and other resources. In addition, a request for the participation of the United Nations peacekeeping contingent in Liberia was made by UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who stressed the exceptional importance of Ukraine's contribution to the overall success of the United Nations mission and stressed the importance of the rapid arrival of the Ukrainian contingent. Such a call reflects Ukraine’s perception as a trusted, important partner of the UN, an active participant in the peacemaking work of this international organization. This is also evidence of recognition in the world of the high professional level of Ukrainian peacekeepers. The importance of Ukraine's peacekeeping contingent in the UN mission in Liberia for Ukraine's national interests should also be noted. In particular, such participation will strengthen the authority of the state in Africa, establish the image of an active participant in the maintenance of peace, security and stability on this continent, which will foster bilateral cooperation with Liberia and other African states. I would particularly like to point out that the mandate of the UN mission in Liberia as defined in resolution 1509 does not provide for the participation of the mission in hostilities. This ensures that the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent in Liberia, which will be made up of 350 people, will not participate in hostilities. Taking this into account, I would like to return to the issue of sending a peacekeeping contingent to Ukraine for the United Nations Mission in Liberia and making a positive decision on this matter. After I made that point, I suggested that I make up my mind to the Conciliation Council. The Conciliation Council supported that we should return to the matter and make the right decision. Well, dear fellows, I'm leading you to your well-known decision. Let's get out of here. Since you have questions about procedure and doubt, please log in for five minutes, let's exchange. And I think they'll report it. In addition, your honorary colleagues, while the recording is going on, I want to say that it is proposed that the committee should make this a supplement to the draft law that introduced the President of this kind of content. "Be aware that, in accordance with the mandate of the UN Mission in Liberia, it is defined in UN Security Council Resolution 1509, the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent will not engage in hostilities on any of the conflicting sides." Please state on board the names of the national MPs who are registered. Igor Nasalik, faction of Ukraine. You don't? Boris Andresyuk, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind all the national MPs today that there has really been a remarkable argument at the National Security and Defence Committee meeting. But taking all the questions into account, given that this decision is extremely important today, it is extremely important to raise the international image of the state, yet by most votes the committee decided to support the President's decision. I would like to pay attention to everyone that today does not need to politicize this issue, the question defined, the information given to everyone, the faction of the Social Democratic Party, after considering this issue, asks all the MPs to support the President's decision and vote in favour. [[united]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u23	Vasil Gavriluk, National Authority MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u24	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! We have just celebrated the Day of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and, when I met with the military in the district, I was very surprised that today the soldiers, especially those involved in these peacekeeping operations, are prepared and terribly outraged that we still cannot make this decision. As a former military, I would like to tell you that the military must be kept under constant military training at the military level. In order to do so, it is necessary to engage continuously in certain operations. Moreover, Ukraine today has taken serious positions in the UN on this issue. I therefore consider it necessary to support our military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u25	National MP Petrenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u26	Thank you. Petrenko, the Communist faction. I would like to take the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u27	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u28	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! The position of the Communist factions is that we have introduced a draft law that requires us to withdraw our military contingent from Iraq and only then, when we find out all the circumstances, indeed, the position of independence and the independent state in these military matters, then consider the rest. I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that we don't have a balanced foreign policy on these issues today. That's the first one. It's different. All this looks like, I'm sorry, it's like work. And this profit, I would stress, is that we, the poor state, are unable to maintain our own military and military forces today. We send them there to earn money and somehow feed themselves. So we send out the tenants, we send out the invaders, they'll never be able to perform full-scale peacekeeping functions. Third. I'd like to get your attention, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Schulak, commander - in - command of the land forces, claims that they are further dispatched to Iraq by 200 military forces. What does he replace with the functions of the Supreme Council? Should he be released from office by decision of the Supreme Council? Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u29	Thank you. Please, instead of Constantine Mercury, Anatoly Matvienko has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u30	Ukrainian Republican Party Sobor, Yulia Timoshenko block, Anatoly Matvienko. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I am addressing you, if you inform the Supreme Council, inform it to the fullest extent. As the issue on the Conciliation Council was raised, four factions, including the Julia Timoshenko faction, voted against the issue. This is the first time. It's different. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have precedents that we make difficult work for ourselves. The question has been considered, the question has been removed from the agenda. It can only be considered at a regular session, at the next session. So there is a request, firstly, to inform objectively, and secondly not to disturb the session with various problems. And take that question off the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u31	Dear colleagues! I want to say again that I don't want to disturb the session, I'm going to make the decision of the Conciliation Board. A total of 226 national deputies supported the consideration. I would ask Anatoly Sergiyovich to be precise. And the President can talk a lot of times, and we need to consider and make the right decision. Yuri Lucenko, please. What is more, the new edition proposes a discussion of the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u32	Yuri Lucenko, Socialist Party of Ukraine First of all, I'm talking to the chairman. Volodymyr Mikhailovich is the position of the Rules that the matter under consideration cannot be reconsidered at the current session. Stop the carnivorous confrontation of the Lithuanian-Kuchima Bills in this room. The other one. We, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, are strongly opposed to the practice of Kuchma of renting the Ukrainian Army, renting in the jungles, sands. I would like to remind you, Your Honor, of the majority, that I appeal to you calmly. Think about it. 780 Ukrainian military personnel in Sierra Leone are suffering from malaria. Would you send your children there? Why are you going to vote in favour of sending you to Liberia today? Are you the blood diamonds of Rabbinovich you want to protect? Is it our children who have to acquire SPDs and malaria and everything else to make it easier for someone in Bankview to communicate with the outside world? Think, if you want to gain experience, why do our military officers get twice as much abroad as the soldiers of Romania? I'm not talking about Germany or Africa anymore. We are definitely against departure! Do not make the same mistake. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you have no right in this session to address this issue. Wait until February and ride along with Kuchma to Liberia, for God’s sake.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u33	I think if you're in the company, we'll go with you. Please, Yuri Carmazin. Don't cross the line all the time. Keep your distance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u34	Thank you. Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, our colleagues have already called attention to the illegality of today’s consideration of the matter. I ask you to consider this and not to impose, not to injure the Constitutional Court by considering the references that I have now prepared on a minimum wage and on the budget. And we did the analysis. I think the Constitutional Court will give the same assessment as it did last year. I draw your attention to Presidential Decree 1279/2003 of 10 November 2003, entitled "To deploy a peacekeeping contingent and peacekeeping personnel to Ukraine's participation in the United Nations Mission in Liberia". In this decree, Vladimir Mikhailovich, there has been no change in the coma, even with the President's separate submission. And we only approve of the President's decision. This is the decision of the Supreme Council. Understand that what the committee is proposing today and what you read out of the voice sounds brilliant if it were written in the President's decree. But unfortunately, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you're not the President and it's not in the decree. You understand, unfortunately, that's true. So I ask you, or I ask you to put the question down, let the President make changes to the decree, and there's a new regulation, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u35	Thank you. Microphone. Dear colleagues, you and I have approved the schedule, the order of the day session, and there are general provisions that say that laws are included under the Rules, returned for re-examination with the proposals of the President of Ukraine, as defined by the President of Ukraine for immediate consideration and so forth. I read you the address of the President of Ukraine. We'll talk, we'll talk. We've already spoken out of the procedure. Please calm down, dear fellows. Let's not. There'll be a discussion, you'll be speaking. For reasons before voting, please remember that we are not yet voting. Before the vote, you'll take it for reasons. So I'm not breaking any procedural rules here. Moreover, once again, I would like to emphasize that there is a decision of the Conciliation Council. Reporter, please, from the committee, First Deputy Chief of the Committee, Andreszuk Boris. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u36	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Indeed, the committee at its meeting considered the matter very carefully and carefully. The committee members had as many questions as they did in the hall, and we received professional answers from the Ministry of Defence and General Staff. An extremely important question was raised by the National Deputies regarding paragraph 4 of the decision that our peacekeeping contingent could provide fire support to the infantry parts of the mission. As you have just heard, in a new edition, the proposals made by the President are a question that was raised by the people's deputies on the committee. And here's the question. In accordance with the UN mandate, our peacekeeping contingent will not take action and participate in hostilities, you have heard that. The rest of the issues that we have considered are consistent with the current legislation of Ukraine and do not contain any norm that contradicts this issue. In accordance with the committee’s decision, I inform you that the committee voted in favour of this issue and by a majority of votes, five against four, made a positive decision. In informing you of the Committee's decision, please support the President's decision and vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u37	Five minutes. Please sign up, Your Honor. Sign up. Please. On the board, please have a name. Sergei Sobolev, faction of our Ukraine, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u38	Sobolen. Please pass the word to Polishku Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u39	Polishchuk, please, Mikola Efremovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u40	Dear National Deputies! I'm surprised at the position of the profile committee that says they won't participate in combat. The world’s experience shows that if peacekeepers are even involved in hostilities, 88 percent of sanitation losses are sickness, and only 12 percent are combat losses. What are we waiting for in Liberia? 58 percent of HlV-infected, further cholera, every month a cholera epidemic, a yellow fever that no European has survived, 50 percent of Africans die. Of 250 helmints, 200 in Liberia. Six months later, every peacemaker suffers from malaria more than once. What are they bringing here?Oh, my God! We're going to have 80 percent of the border psychosis in a year.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u41	Dear Mikola Efremovich, thank you. I would like to emphasize to you, Your Honor, on your first question, that the mandate of the UN mission, which I read out to you in Liberia as defined by Resolution No. 1509, does not provide for the participation of the mission in hostilities. I'll read you a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u42	National MP Spivacuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u43	Vladimir Spiwiachuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin I'm actually wondering how it's not to take part in combat when military support is involved. But I'm asking you to pass the word to Stepanovich Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u44	Stepan Bulba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u45	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Boris Pavlovich, I have a question for you. I have not heard from the Secretary of Defense the answers which are still a threat to our military presence in Liberia. We haven't heard how much, after all, we've earned in these peacekeeping operations for the army, and how we've improved our security, our weapons, and so on. But I do know that 97 million dollars were put on Iraq's budget, while 61 million dollars were spent on improving military technology and so on. How does this relate to you being a member of the committee, a deputy chairman of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u46	Thank you. Dearest, Stepanovich! When we discussed the matter with you at the committee meeting, we discussed these questions as much as possible. First of all, respectable colleagues! Let us talk to you seriously or ethically today about employment. On the one hand, we're saying today that you can't talk about it, on the other hand you're asking these questions. I would like to remind you that Ukraine is one of the cofounders of the UN Council. And today, every UN member country is obliged to comply with the legitimate decision of this organization to provide assistance in a peacekeeping mission to that State. That's why I wouldn't talk about profit. But when you raise that question, in the President's papers, this figure is determined that compensation to our country every month is going to be one and a half million dollars. These numbers are fixed, read them. So, of course, these numbers are all going to last. There is no debt for 9 missions where our peacekeeping contingents are accepted today. These expenses are being properly financed by the UN Security Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u47	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u48	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Boris Pavlovich, well, I don't support your personal position, which is that for the money they pay there at the right time, we have to send our boys. This is, to put it mildly, immoral. And they sent our boys to Iraq to die. Today you're going to go to Liberia, or you're going to go to Liberia. Promising to go for a walk in Kuwait will not be involved in combat operations. And today, Ukraine is on the side of the invaders and is a occupying state in Iraq. But I do have a question for you as a committee deputy. Tell me, please, how do you feel about Shulak's position, who said he'll be sending 20 more of our boy soldiers, 200, I'm sorry, 200 boys to Iraq without a decision of the Supreme Council. Are we going to say we have a junta today or do we have a state?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u49	Dear Peter Mikolaiovich, I fully support your proposal and your question in the sense that without a decision, without ratifying the decision on this matter of the Supreme Council, there can be no further direction. I understand that Peter Ivanovich meant nothing at all. And you know that, according to the UN mandate today, if we make a positive decision today, that doesn't mean that tomorrow our peacekeeping contingent will be there. It takes us three months to prepare for this. The 18 helicopters that will be deployed, our helicopter crew, must go through the UN with full modernization and full preventive repairs for UN money. I'd like to pay attention to that, because today, you know, we have no reason to repair helicopters today. And according to experts, Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk is sitting, and he will confirm that today the MI-8 helicopter costs about $18 million, which is not available in Ukraine. We're going to get a ready helicopter park today. That's why there's a profit for our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u50	Thank you, Boris Pavlovich, please sit down. Dear colleagues! One minute, well, what other motives? Dear colleagues! Obviously, we need to exchange our thoughts now on this matter. We're in, we'll have a discussion for 15 minutes. Kouzmuk Alexander Ivanovich. And on the board, explain those who have enrolled as national deputies. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u51	Dear colleagues! The consideration of today’s issue for the third time during the month and that of the passions that exist is testimony to the high responsibility, concern and excitement of the Ukrainian Parliament for making the appropriate decision. Yes, there is a risk, there are threats to Ukrainian peacekeepers. We have no climate, no conditions, and no territory. But I want to remind you that there are people in this room, and there are thousands of people in this country, and there are tens of thousands in our military brother who in Soviet times taught, built and treated people on the African continent without asking for anything. The risk to the military starts with the question of how our soldier steps down the flight ladder, and we have to get there. Our job is to ensure minimum risks. Now. There was a lot of terminology in this room, such as national interests. But unfortunately, neither we nor the Ministry of Foreign Affairs nor the Ministry of Defence have expressed any interest. And the components of their following, political interest, are addressed by the United Nations and by the Secretary -General himself. This is already the national interest of Ukraine. The second economic, and in the same Liberia, rich fish stocks, beneficial fossils, is economic interest if speaking military terminology, on the shoulders of war, diplomats, government officials and businessmen go there. And they will earn the national interests of Ukraine. And military interest is undeniable. These are half a hundred short - term pilots and money for the restoration of military aviation. Dear colleagues, this is also a difficult decision for me, because I can predict all the risks that might be in that situation. But I'm not going to hide, and I'm going to press the pros button. At the same time, I am addressing both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence to immediately adopt procedures for recalling our contingents from Lebanon, the Balkans and Sierra Leone as we have done our historic mission in those countries, Ukraine, and we need to focus where we make our decisions. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u52	Yuri Carmazin. Andrew School will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u53	Party of protectors of the country, solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, you can see that instead of dealing with how to raise as much money as possible and provide training to the Armed Forces here, we're going to lie to the Ukrainian people, we want to solve completely different problems at the expense of the people. I'm talking to those who, in most cases today, are going to push the buttons that have been pushed here and even the minister of government is sitting here today as a deputy. By the way, we should announce who is today, Vladimir Mikhailovich, who is present. Then to know by name who will be responsible for the economic interests that are called diamonds for the decaying regime in the bank that sits, our people will be killed for these economic interests. We have information that virtually all helicopters that are being directed were actually sold to the government of Liberia. And this agreement is just a cover-up as a fig leaf. That's what you've been put together for today, and you've been cut off from very important things. Therefore, it is clear to the honourable national deputies who will vote, who will not vote, today Vladimir Mikhailovich, who understands that he assumes a huge responsibility three times by putting this question to a vote, said that the Supreme Council will make a warning in the law. But these warnings, if they have to be done, they have to be. do it in a definite form. There's got to be a "no fighting on either side," because today, in support of a regime called international newspapers, for example, the Austrian newspaper Standart called President Taylor's "bloodthirsty gangster." That's not what I called it. This is the newspaper, I repeat, "Standart" of Austria calls it, let him judge it. So, dear military officials, please give me a number, but how many helicopters and how many planes have you put in warehouses over the last 5 to 10 years? They've entered into operation. None. We didn't get anything new. Even from what they could do by making their own engines on the Sichi Motor. Even so, we didn't do anything in exchange with the Russian Federation, and we didn't put anything in the budget. And today you're putting Ukraine's defenses under attack like this. So I urge you to provide new helicopters to Ukraine and not send our children to destroy Liberia and other exotic countries. We're not Africans. You have already thrown the country into a 100 - second place, but our children will not be able to be destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u54	Thank you. Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko's faction. Next is Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u55	The school of Andrew, the faction of Julia Timoshenko. First of all, I want to stress that this is really the third time we're going to vote for this, for sending the Ukrainian contingent to Liberia. Here we should always consider who would benefit from being pushed through the Supreme Council for the sending of troops. First of all, I would like to stress that everyone who votes in favour, their child, will not go there anyway. This is how you press the button. Or would I send my child there because the absence of a military threat does not mean that there is no health risk for those who will be directed there. Well, this has already been said about malaria, about AIDS, about the rest of the diseases that will have to be fought by the Ukrainian contingent. For one thing, this will be a major threat to the life and health of Ukrainian soldiers. And second of all, it's about pay. Among other things, it is not bad when a country can equip its military contingent and make money for it. But you just have to remember one moment. Everyone wants to have a Swiss army, everyone wants to be like the Swiss, but gradually, Ukraine wants to go to the Swiss, who delegate their armies, turns itself into a Swiss, who opens and closes the door to the great world of this. And it's the sending of a military contingent there, because we're being approached by a whole Kofi Annan, an entire UN gene. This is of course, I think, why don't you go talk to him, because I wanted to hear the answer to a question: who else is going to go there, what other great states besides Congo, besides Nigeria, besides Kenya, are directing their military troops there. So we simply need to be honest with ourselves. The deployment of the Ukrainian contingent will not bring success to the Ukrainian army. What's done to her right now is what the Ministry of Defense has done to her is no longer going to work. We now have destroyed Ukrainian military forces and 18 helicopters will not save Ukraine's security. I'm convinced that in Ukraine you could find money to upgrade helicopters and leave them without sending them to any Liberia, you could find funds to buy AN-70, you could find funds to provide Ukraine with Ukrainian tanks. Pakistan we can provide, and we cannot provide our own Armed Forces. And in order to provide the military with its own tanks, you don't have to send anyone anywhere, so you have to find the funds -- stop stealing, start with yourself. And when there's Ukrainian leadership in the Ukrainian Army, when there's a Ukrainian Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, then you can ask the Supreme Council to direct a certain point to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, because they are now turning into the service of this rich world. Neither French nor English want their military personnel to die of yellow fever and AIDS in African countries, but they want to send Ukrainians there. I think we'll send no one there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u56	Thank you. Basil Nadrag, National Choice MP, prepare the Clouds. The last talk of the Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, today the issue that we are considering with you has certainly raised such a lively interest, and from today's debate, we can note a few points. First moment. It calls for genuine respect for the position of those who are now opponents of the proposal to have our contingent go to Liberia, that is normal, that is natural. But it is truly admirable, I say, and a frank mix of concepts that motivate this room, why it can't be done. Well, first of all, about 20 minutes ago, we were discussing a subject with you and there were many stories and discussions that there was no UN resolution, and we're doing something wrong with you. Today, there is a UN resolution in the legal field that you and I are always so passionate about, which gives a green light to this project. And the question is, what else do I need? Today's claims regarding what we are considering? Is that what we're doing? And it's like that. My dears, so far there's a decision on the committee. Our peers have considered this issue and have identified it. Never judge, as they say, judge not, nor judge. If the profile committee said it was necessary to do so, I wonder why you and I should question the decision of our colleagues who did so. And the last. With all differences, respectable colleagues who do not agree with this decision. In fact, I have great respect for everyone sitting in this room without exception, and I would ask the members of any factions or deputities to respect the decision of their leaders, who at the Conciliation Council have done well to include this issue on today's agenda. If we don't trust our leaders, I mean, faction leaders and groups, then I think it's a good idea to ask the question whether those people are leading factions and groups if the factions and groups then oppose the decision of their leaders. In detention, I would like to add only one moment. I would ask, after all, to be objective and honest with myself and in front of the audience when we claim that people are being sent there to kill. I do not want to talk about this for a long time today, but I would like to stress separately, today they will only go on a contract, I stress, only on a contract and only with the written consent of the contractors and their families themselves. My dears! Let us not intimidate people with some kind of scarecrow, but let me stress that contractors travel by written consent and written consent of the members of their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u58	Stepan Cloud, please. Calm down, dear fellows! No, if it's time, it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u59	The Fatherland faction, the Motherland Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to remind you again. Every time you say that this is what the Conciliation Board has decided. So I'd like to remind you again and urge you to study the Rules. The Conciliation Board does not make any decisions, according to article 4.2.4, the Conciliation Board can only make proposals for day - to - day arrangements, for the formation of the agenda. You, as none of your predecessors in the presidency of the Supreme Council, are systematically cynically violating the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure. You have no right to ask that question today. That's the first one. It's different. What is Ukraine's interest in sending our military workers to Liberia? There's none. And no wonder neither the President nor anyone else, such as the Ministry of Defense, told us that because he's not here. There is no political interest in Ukraine, Ukraine's economic interest, I am not talking about the moral side of this issue. But we're going to have people with disabilities, and then we're going to have to keep them. We don't miss them anyway. We will have disabled people with a bouquet of unusual African diseases, tropical diseases. Maybe someone needs it. Perhaps this is what a former Ukrainian adviser, Mr. Vadim Rabinovich, who is interested in bloody diamonds, needs. Perhaps another family that rules Ukraine today needs to do so. But I would also like to address Mr. Andrésuk. Mr. Andresuk, the money for the Armed Forces is, there's enough money in Ukraine. You just don't have to steal. And better call on your leader, Mr. Medvedchuk, who, in a fraudulent way, washed away and shipped hundreds of millions of dollars abroad. That's when we don't have a problem financing both the Armed Forces and funding other social costs. And today to send a military-worker contingent to Liberia, it's disgraceful, humiliating for both the Supreme Council and the people of Ukraine, and for our Armed Forces. I'm asking you all. Do not make a big mistake today, and do not vote for this shameful law at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u60	Thank you, Stepan Ilkovich. Dear colleagues! Time's up. He'll be out of procedure for reasons, just calm down. I'd like your attention, Your Honor. What are you yelling at? I just want to read article 4.2.4.6 Rules: "The decision of the Conciliation Board of Deputies and Groups shall be taken by the number of votes cast by the members of the Conciliation Board, with the right to vote, which shall ensure that a positive decision is taken by the members of its factions and groups when voting in the session room." In no way did I violate the Rules. And, honourable colleagues, one more thing I would like to say is to remind me of the violation of the Rules when we put the Electoral Act on a proportional basis to the vote again. With motive? Sign up, three minutes of motive. And you don't have to blame me for what you don't have, just be objective. Please sign up for motive. Please sign up. On the board, please have a name. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u61	Please pass the word to Yuri Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u62	Yuri Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u63	Lucenko, Ukrainian Socialist Party The Honorable Presidium! Honorable deputies to the majority! I'm talking to you first. I'm also talking to our radios. We must realize today that the majority of deputies are not free to vote. Today, they are forced to vote shamefully for the third time, breaking their conscience, the Rules, and Ukraine’s prospects for this disgraceful decision, as Step Ilkovich rightly said. Disgusting in all respects: for Ukraine, for the Armed Forces, for the Supreme Council, which three times in a row violates the rules of law and morals when voting in favour of exile to Liberia. I'm talking to you today, find the courage not to push the button. By doing so, you will save hundreds of people from serious diseases in the name of saving one single, half - kingly person in Ukraine. Find the courage to act on your conscience as you would with your children. And apart from you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, if you really want to set me up with a company in Liberia, along with Kuchma, I will go with you right there, but for a very long time, to free Ukraine from such woeful leaders.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u64	Please, Valery Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u65	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, when you get to the Conciliation Council all the time, you don't talk, you don't talk. If that vote on the Conciliation Board has ensured its passage in the Hall, please comply fully with this rule and report how many votes have been voted on at the Conciliation Council. Because she's like a wand to you. Then we can't gather the Supreme Council at all. You're there on the Conciliation Council and you're welcome. As far as this is concerned, it's understandable, but I didn't quite get it, and here's the election law. Maybe then we'll look at it in a packet with Liberia to finally comment on the rules. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u66	Boris Andresuk, please, the faction of the social-democratic party of Ukraine united.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to advise you, please count the money in your pockets rather than other people's money. This is the first time. And second of all, I'd like to tell you both about your faction, and I'm not going to vote today. We made a realistic budget to support our Armed Forces, and we voted for it. There's our money. Our Ministry of Defense and the Army. But neither you nor your faction voted for the budget. You were against this money that had to be allocated to our Armed Forces, and you have no moral right today to accuse us of not supporting the effectiveness of our Armed Forces. Vote better than the budget, so you will support the Armed Forces!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u68	No, no, no. There. The cloud is a replica. The name was called and voted. All of it. The replica. Dear colleagues, time is up. Well, we have 25 more people here. What can I do?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u69	Dear Mr. Andresyuk! Our faction did not vote for the budget just because it was really anti-national and not social. And you don't have to speculate here that we didn't vote to fund the Armed Forces. I'm going to tell you that this is such an unfortunate budget because, like your leader, hundreds of millions of dollars of illegally looted Ukrainian people, he washed up and washed up abroad. Let him return, and like him — those who chose Ukraine — there will be no financing problems, including the Ukrainian Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u70	Nigga is a replica. That's it. [[N o M e s s a ……]] I'll be right there. Well, dear colleagues, I want to take the procedure completely. Please calm down. Don't blame me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of work here. I didn't see any revenue coming from Liberia in the draft budget. Where's the wages? On the contrary, Ukraine is funding our soldiers in Liberia, and then they may return that money. As was the case with Iraq. Tell me if we got money from being in Iraq. No, on the contrary, in the next year’s budget, we are increasing Iraq’s spending! So the thesis that we're going to make money there is absolutely groundless, but there's a real threat, a real risk of people dying and diseases, very terrible diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Replica is a gmira and that's it. May I have your attention, please? I'm mumbling the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u73	Vladimir Mihajlovich, I feel you'll be asking questions until the last Liberian peacekeepers get through. This project cannot be voted in favour. Well, what arguments did they give? They say the UN is asking us to come. It's some kind of weird argument. UN Kuwait says don't go, we're invited. This is where he says we're going, too. What's the U.N. for? It's a shame to hear them talking about repairing our planes. Yeah, and the bugs will set up for auditions. Our army has been torn apart, and now we're trying to get aliens to help us. And the most fundamental. As long as we do not know the reasons and consequences of sending our troops abroad, we cannot vote in favour. Marchuk said when troops were sent to Kuwait that he knew where the weapons of mass destruction were. Let it glow. The Midianites described how Ukraine would benefit from sending troops to Kuwait. Let them come and answer. And if not, let them say they're lying. You can't. It is not possible to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u74	Thank you. And Gennady Josephovich Udovenko says that he is ashamed of the Secretary-General that we cannot make the right decision. I am voting on the content of this content: "To take note that, in accordance with the mandate of the United Nations in Liberia, as defined in UN Security Council Resolution 1509, the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent will not take part in the fighting on either side of the conflict." In view of this addition, I am voting on the Ukrainian Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to deploy a peacekeeping contingent to Ukraine’s participation in the United Nations Mission in Liberia. Please vote. In general, I put it to a vote. [[17:03:31]] For 234 Decision taken. The factions, please. I'm asking for your attention. Read it? I'll read it. Please note, we still have decisions to vote on. "Our Ukraine" - 1, "Ukrainian Regions" - 62, Communists - 0, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs Party, "Trug Ukraine" -40, Ukrainian Social Democratic Party - 36, "The People's Government" - 22, Ukrainian Socialist Party - 0, Yulia Timoshenko - 0, "Democratic Initiatives" - 18, Agrarian Party - 16, "National Choice" - 14, Ukrainian People's Democratic Party - 13, non-fractional - 12. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, I would like to emphasize, in fact, that it was decided unanimously that we would make a decision, that we would make a decision Wednesday to consider ratification issues and make appropriate decisions. If there is no objection, I am voting on the order number 4473 on this matter. Please be supportive. Please vote. It's issued this decree. To deal with this issue every Wednesday with the obligation of Ukraine’s international treaties and the denunciation of Ukraine’s international treaties. Please vote. I mean, ratification. Please be supportive. [[17:05:17]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the section "Decision from the Issues under discussion." A draft law on the city of Sevastopol is being announced. Matthew, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. Anatoly Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u75	Anatoly Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party Sobor, Yulia Timoshenko block. Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you by recalling the position of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government on the laws on the city of Sevastopol. We have three bills in line with the authors' initiatives: 3187, this is the government bill, 3187, this is the law of the national MPs of Verni Dubov and Zaiczko, and 3187-2, this is the bill of Yushchenka, Catherineczuk and other deputies. The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting reviewed all three bills and made the following decision or came to the next decision: Bill 3187 was rejected by the Committee as such. which practically establishes only the authority of the administration and ignores the requirements of the Constitution and the relevant laws concerning the right of local self-government and the formation of local self-government bodies. Under the other two bills, 3187-1 and 3187-2, the committee did not take any decisions of effect since the votes were divided. Regarding the Rabbit Bill, the Verni Dubois Committee did not make a decision, considering that we are practically establishing in Sevastopol a very disturbing situation, perhaps a situation of a two-man government, when there are state administrations, and when there is a city authority and a city head who is elected by the public. We do not sign there, as appropriate, and we do not allow duplication. You remember that such an uncertain situation exists in Kiev today, causing some concern and, for example, creating a dangerous situation of indiscretion and returning from Sevastopol something like Mishkov, who was the president of Crimea. With regard to the Katerinczuk and Greenwich bill, the committee also failed to make a decision, supported only seven votes, failed to solve the problem of its own city of Sevastopol, and failed to resolve Sevastopol’s rights, such as those of Balaklava for local self - government. The Committee recommended that the two groups of authors, under bill 3187-1 and 3187-2, step into a harmonized bill and remove these contradictions. Regrettably, the authors of these bills did not come to the agreed decision. So today the Supreme Council has to decide on all three bills, I say again, the committee has not supported any of them. In the event that any of these bills are not approved in the first reading, the committee proposes bills 3187-1 and 3187-2 to vote for the first reading again. And I think that these problems that the committee is warning about, we're going to try to solve with the authors. And as soon as possible to pass the law on the city of Sevastopol, and indeed to fulfill their obligations to this glorious community and to all the inhabitants of Sevastopol. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I finished the information thanks for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u76	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich! Dear colleagues, we will be determined. We're going to have three bills, I'll remind you again, three bills. In spite of the committee's decision, we will vote with you in the order in which they came. Government Bill 3187 and two Deputies 3187-1, and 3782-2. In that order, we will be with you. A bunny from the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u77	Thank you! Victor Zaitchko, city hero of Sevastopol 225 district. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like a small line to the rapporteur of the information that has been provided. You've heard that our project assumes that it will exacerbate the social and political situation in the town of Sevastopol. I would not like that opinion to be interpreted in the Supreme Council. Today, sevastopols are such Ukrainian citizens, and they must have equal rights to exercise their powers in local self-government. In addition, I take this opportunity that there were not many colleagues in the room during the discussion. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, on behalf of the city council, the city's labour teams have come to the representatives of the Supreme Council, and you have had the honour to see him in support of the Sevastopol City Project today. And I would be very grateful, on behalf of all Sevastopols, if we today make the right choice in terms of democracy, true democracy, and vote in the first reading, it is my project and my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the coming of the bill, I will put them to the vote, as Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk said. The first one is the bill of government. This is number 1-3187 "The City Hero of Sevastopol." Please vote. [[17:12:20]] For-161 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the 3187-1 project. The authors of the national MPs Verni Dubov and Bunny. It's a draft law on the City of Sevastopol. Please vote. [[17:12:50]] For-191 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the 3187-2 project. The authors are the National Deputies of Yushchenko, Immortal, Catherinechuk, Greene Bill on the Special Status of the City Hero of Sevastopol. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:13:22]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The committee's proposal was one more time. I'll put it in order for it to be. No objections? Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u79	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm watching the vote. Well, I understand that when Tolstoy votes, it's still a semi-wrestle, but when the Attorney General votes. Of course not, but at least Vasiliev could at least lay down his mandate to show the whole of Ukraine an example of the fulfilment of the requirements of the Constitution. So I'm asking you very much, you go to the Attorney General and remind him that it's not up to him to break the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, I informed the Conciliation Council that the Attorney General had made a statement. He's planning on it on Thursday. The Rules Committee is scheduled to consider Wednesday, and we will make a decision on Thursday. That's what I'm talking about. Please, Petrov. Then there's Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u81	Dear colleagues! Petrov, faction of the People's Democratic Party. I want us to support the hero city of Sevastopol and ask the chairman, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to put in drafts on the ballots. Well, the biggest project that got the vote, be the first. We're going to vote it out and we're going to support it for the second time. First of all, the first reading is the city hero Sevastopol.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u82	Dear colleagues! Please, head of the committee. Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u83	Dear colleagues and all who wish to pass the law on the city of Sevastopol! The committee would very much like to see him with you. Moreover, we will do everything we can to prepare it as quickly as possible. We don't have much to agree on. We'll do it with the government. So the request for Bill 3187-1, Bill 3187-2, to vote and send them back for a re-read. We'll do it quickly and solve Sevastopol's problem. We are interested in making the law work, but we want it to work effectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u84	Bunny, please. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u85	Thank you. I, my distinguished colleagues, would nevertheless like us to pay renewed attention to the ratings vote and support one draft for the first rereading. For there is all that is in store for today's legislation and for the Constitution's principles. For the Kabminov project and the project proposed today by Yushchenko and the group of deputies, in fact, is a similar case today in terms of the approach to the rights of the local community in elections and heads and other matters related to the Law on Local Self-Government. I would therefore like to refer to the majority, and there is a decree that has been sent and registered, to support this draft for the first reading, and we will take into account the proposals that will be made in preparation for the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u86	Greene, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u87	Deputies! I'd like to ask to support the committee's proposal. In fact, not so much remains to be reconciled, and I think the bill will win if, over the course of the week, we now agree on two bills that are very close to our concepts, and we bring out, indeed, what will suit both the public interests and the interests of the community of Sevastopol.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u88	Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u89	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. The city of Kiev is the second such city as Sevastopol, with a separate status. Dear colleagues! Let's remember how we discussed this bill, we agreed. The first thing we need to do is adopt the law as quickly as possible. The other one. We agreed that there is a rational grain in both of these bills. The project implemented by Bunny and Verni Dubov advocates the interests of self - government but unfortunately does not take into account State interests to some extent. In the second bill passed by Greens, Yushchenko and Immortal, perhaps a bit of a backlog towards government. So it's just a combination of these bills, it's not complicated, and it would solve all the questions: and full local self-government, and the protection of the interests of the state. So the proposal made by Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko is reasonable, that is, logical. And I very much ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, on behalf of the committee, I am the secretary of this committee, to make a proposal to the head of the committee to reread the second reading of both parliamentary bills. This will open the door, and by New Year’s, we can bring a gift to Sevastopol.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. I'm going to put them in line now, one more time, if it doesn't work, then we're going to put a proposal on the committee to send two bills. No objections? I mean, now I'm putting it in order, and then if I don't, then two bills, the authors of which are the national MPs. I'm voting for re-reading the draft law on the city of Sevastopol, number 3187 government. [[17:19:42]] For 207 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on Project 3187-1, the authors of Vernidubov and Bunny of the draft Law on the City of Sevastopol for the re-reading of the first reading. Please vote. [[17:20:12]] For 258. Decision taken. Yes, thank you. A draft Law on Lombards in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Kaputin Viktor Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, there are two bills for your consideration, number 2424, which is a bill introduced by National Deputy Tajnibok, and a government draft of the Law on Lombards and Lombard Activities under number 2424-1. Our committee has been looking into this issue. And we came to the following conclusions. First. The situation seems to be that there are now almost 500 pawnbrokers working in Ukraine that actually work outside the legal field, because this financial market segment is not regulated. And this, of course, is a very bad situation. It's different. Lombards are known, according to the law we passed last year, according to the law on prevention, money laundering, these are the organs of primary financial monitoring, which are all the more subject to special laws. So these laws are very important, and we need to adopt one of them. When we discussed them essentially on the Committee on Finance and Banking, we came to the conclusion that these laws, first of all, are similar, are acceptable for discussion and adoption at first reading. And the important difference between them is that the bill of the People's Deputy Tegnibok refers to more financial services that can be provided by these financial institutions of the pawnbroker. We have come to the conclusion, however, that the smuggling of pawnbrokers into financial institutions of the type of banks is now inopportune and that it is probably not necessary to do so. Thus, according to the decision taken by the committee. We're proposing the adoption of Government Bill 2424-1, adopted as a basis, adopted in the first reading, in order to then finalize the two bills and go out on second reading with a single joint bill. The authors of these bills are representatives of the government and our esteemed colleague Tuggnibok, they hold such a reasonable and compromising position as I know it. And they agree with the committee's proposal to then work out these two bills in the working groups and to go out on a single bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u92	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Oleg Tuggnibok as the author of the project. The Microphone of the People's Deputy Taggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! In fact, I want to confirm that in the process of discussing the two bills, I agreed that it would be better at this stage that we here in the session room now support the bill of government of 2424. And already in the process of preparing for second reading, they took into account those proposals that were proposed in a bill that I was the author of. So please, Your Honor's Society, Honorable Colleagues to support Bill 2424. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u94	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u95	Maybe Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u96	The author of the draft law, Oleg Tuggnibok, removes his project and agrees that his proposals will be taken into account in the second reading. We have one government project left. I'm voting for adoption on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law on Lombards and Lombard Activities, number 2424-1, government. Please vote. [[17:24:45.]] For 291 Decision taken. A draft law on heat supply is being announced for consideration. Peter Pavlovich Sabashuk is the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. Please. And the author of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u97	Good afternoon, noble fellows! We have a hot day here, but we should not forget that 99 percent of our cities are cold today. And this is the law that I want to present to you today that you should vote in the first reading, regardless of its certain contentions, developed by all the interested parties and the Association of Ukrainian Cities, and the heat engineers and the heat technicians. Entity. I'd like to stop at some of the essence of this law. The draft law proposes to regulate relations arising from the production, transportation, supply and use of thermal energy, public supervision of heat consumption, safe use of thermal equipment, and safe operation of work. The bill provides for a definition of public policy in the field of heating, which is the regulation of prices that are being given to local councils today. State administration and regulation in the field of heating. We have a new committee -- the Committee on Communiqués, and it has the right to regulate relations in the field of heat supply, as well as licensing and the right to work on those licences. Special activities in the field of heating. Monitoring the calculation and control of the heat supply. Responsibility for violations of the law in the field of heating. After discussion, I would like to stop at some of these points. Article 17, which speaks of privatization. Privatization will be possible under the laws that exist and work in Ukraine. No more, no less. One more. The question that we've been looking at today is prices and tariffs. Prices and tariffs are set by local councils. The local council today are representatives of the people, and the people will set these tariffs. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u98	Yes, thank you. Just a minute. Semenuk Valentina Petrovna, please microphone. Maybe you need an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u99	Dear reporter, it's a pleasure that you called the bill because it was prepared by representatives of various ministries, departments and experts. But please tell me how you can submit a bill that contradicts article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 5 of the Privatization Act, because under the Privatisation Act, objects that have engineering buildings, equipment for water supply, heat, gas are not subject to the Act. This is a norm that is now in force, as we could now lay down in article 17, which prohibits, expressly forbids, the privatization of the direct supply of services to the territorial representatives and citizens of the territory of such facilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u100	I apologize, but an article.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u101	Article 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u102	Article 17 states that the privatization of thermal facilities is carried out according to the real laws of Ukraine. And while there is the law of Ukraine that prohibits privatization, it works in Ukraine. But I think the time will come when we cancel it, and the law we don't write for one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u103	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues! I'll put it to a vote, with a motive, please, Semenyuk. Have a seat, please. Semenyuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u104	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! We cannot adopt laws that directly contradict the existing legislative instruments that operate in Ukraine in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. So I ask you, Article 17, we cannot vote, and I ask you not to support this document. Because as we talk about privatization in the future today, let us first adopt laws that will not be broken by those who act. And today we cannot go to the adoption of this document with the article mentioned. I appeal to you, all my colleagues, not to uphold this norm, especially article 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u105	Dear colleagues! I put to the vote a proposal from the Committee, which recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the draft Ukrainian Warm Supply Act No. 4021, author of the national MP Sabashuk. Please vote. [[17:29:44]] For-300 Decision taken. Please, Valentin Grigorovich Matthews. I'm out of procedure. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u106	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. I would also like to draw your attention as chairman of this evening's session, to the continuing practice of managing the general government members or government representatives who are present in the consideration of a particular issue. When are we finally going to set the order in the Supreme Council Hall? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u107	I'm asking the honourable representatives not to do that again. Don't be a beast while he's sleeping. The draft Law on Transport and Expeditional Activities is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Utilities and the Liaison of Gladys Vasil Ivanovich. Is there a Vasil Ivanovich? Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u108	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport, Housing and Utilities considered at its meeting a draft of the Ukrainian Act on Transport and Expeditional Activities, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Skybk Stanislav Kirilovich. The bill is drafted in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's Comprehensive Program of Approval as a Transport State in 2002-2010, and defines the legal and organizational principles for shipping and shipping activities in Ukraine, the fundamental rights, duties and responsibilities of the subjects of this activity, defines several types of transport freight forwarders and the directions of state support and state regulation of shipping and shipping activities, and introduces licensing of shipping activities. The adoption of the bill will contribute to the development and improvement of the quality of transport and shipping services for export and transit cargo, improve the competitiveness of national freight forwarders in the international transport services market, allow the creation of a single legal field and implement legislation that regulates relations in this area. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine made a few remarks to the bill, but it believes that the bill can be based on the following observations. Given the above, the committee proposes to adopt a draft Ukrainian law on transport and freight. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, no objection to the proposal and decision of the committee? That's why I'm voting that the Ukrainian Transport and Expedition Act should be adopted as a basis. [[Registration number 2474]] Please vote. [[17:33:17]] For 294 Decision taken. So, let's go to the draft Act on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Violations. [[by abbreviated procedure]] The reporter is Yuri Carmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u110	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies, the need for the speedy adoption of this law is due to the fact that, as of January 1, 2004, Ukraine’s Income Tax Act, adopted on May 22, 2003. In accordance with article 93 of the Constitution, in the order of the legislative initiative, I and the Ukrainian national deputy Bandurqa have submitted this bill for consideration by the Supreme Council, which has been considered by the Committee on Law Enforcement and is recommended for consideration and adoption in the first reading. A positive decision is in the conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration of 13 August 2003. The actual implementation of paragraph 22.5 of the recently adopted Ukrainian Income Tax Act completely violates the balance between the seriousness of the crime and the extent to which the penalty was imposed in the drafting of many articles of the current Criminal Code. The purpose of the bill is to prevent the complete destruction of existing criminal legislation and its application as a result of the operation of the marked money. In the event of a failure to take appropriate legislative action, starting on January 1, 2004, the Criminal Code articles, where the qualification depends on a certain size, will begin to dramatically increase the size of the relevant qualification criteria, which will create conditions for avoiding the liability of those responsible for tax evasion. Since January 1, 2004, these sizes will increase fourfold, from January 1, 2005 to almost seven times, and 2006 to 11 times, from January 1, 2007, to nearly 14 times their current value, and this is on the condition that the minimum wage will not increase. For example. The size of the criminal penalty tax evasion, part one of article 212 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, now stands at 17,000 dollars. If the minimum wage is saved at 237 dollars, this amount will be 71,000 dollars in 2004 in 2005 - 118 in 2007 - 237 thousand dollars. In view of the circumstances, it is necessary to adopt the bill as soon as possible so that it takes effect before 1 January 2004. Dear National Deputies! It is proposed in the Penal Code in the Code that the word "untaxed minimum income of citizens" should be replaced by the words "calculus unit" in different ways. To complement article 53 with a new part of the third of this content: "The monetary value of the calculation unit is equal to 17 pennies." In this regard, the third and fourth parts of this article are considered to be the fourth and fifth respectively. Moreover, the same concept should be changed in the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. In the codex, the word "not taxed at least the income of the citizens" in all differences is suggested to replace the words "calculus unit in the corresponding differences." Article 27 puts it this way. Article 27, fine. The fine is a monetary charge imposed on citizens and officials for administrative offences in cases and the size of the code and other laws of Ukraine. If this code or other laws of Ukraine impose a fine for administrative offences in accounting units, the monetary value of the unit defined in the Criminal Code of Ukraine shall be used to calculate the amount of such a fine. The law stipulates that it will take effect ten days after its publication, as provided for by the valid Constitution of Ukraine. I want to thank all those who have worked and made their proposals to this law, particularly the head of the Department of Constitutional Affairs and State Building of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration, Mr. Richeluk Andrija Mikolaiovich, and I would like to say that, according to the conclusion of the expert board, they clearly write to this bill that they do not have a claim. Thank you, the report's over.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u111	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, please sit down. Head of the committee, Musik Volodymyr Romanovich, conclusion of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u112	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow members of the National MPs, the committee supports this bill. In a few words, this is what it refers to. The Law on Taxes on Natural Persons requiring Entry into force on 1 January of the coming year, the Criminal Code and the Code on Administrative Offences excludes the notion of "not taxed at least the income of citizens and instead introduces a social tax benefit, which is much higher than the non-taxed minimum income of citizens. So the bill proposes to enforce the Law on Taxes of Natural Persons and the Criminal Code and the Code on Administrative Offences. Since the first tax law on natural persons is effective on January 1, 2004, the committee supports the bill and would ask for it to be adopted as a whole. And this is also supported by the State Tax Administration of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u113	Thank you. There's no need to discuss this, is there? Puzakov insists on what I can do. Don't you insist, dear colleagues? Don't insist. If there is no objection to the committee's proposal to make a decision on the basis and in general, there is no objection? I am voting on adoption as a basis and as a whole a bill amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Offences. Please vote. [[17:40:21]] For-164 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the adoption of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Code and the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences. Please vote. [[17:40:46]] For 135 The decision is not taken. The following is announced before the review of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine on socio-economic services. Dear colleagues, as we agreed, we have nine draft laws here that are directly called upon to improve the living conditions of the disabled. I would ask that we briefly discuss them here so that we can make decisions. Suskevich Valeriy Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u114	Dear colleagues, first of all, I'd like to thank you. Last week was a week for which the world society and our country were paying attention to the disabled. The year is ending, which Europe and our President have called a year after the problem of disabled people has been resolved. I want to thank you for your work, for your cooperation, for solving the problems of disabled voters, for your health. I want to go to Bill 3526. This is an addition to the law on the basis of the social protection of persons with disabilities. This is the law introduced in the 91st year, which remains one of the main bills to date that defines State support for the protection of the rights of people with disabilities in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, there is a problem of the systemicity of our legislation. It is this bill that provides for more systematic work in dealing with issues related to the social protection of persons with disabilities in the protection of their rights. I'll give you one example. So far, the C.P.C.P.S.S. Council of Ministers of the USSR and the V.C.C.S.P.S. has been working to address the problem of persons with disabilities, to ensure issues relating to the rights of persons with disabilities and social protection. But it's not a legislative act. And these orders, the 90s, 92st, 91st, the famous normative acts that are now either taken into account or not taken into account by the Ministry of Finance. And by the way, they're in general, when our MPs are working hard and supporting the disabled, they're projected in the State Budget. I mean, it's practically today that we're talking about systematizing and amending the Act on the Fundamentals of the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities by the normative acts that are now in force with regard to persons with disabilities. I want to ask you, this bill does not provide for additional expenses, it is supported by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, our Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons, there are virtually no objections. And I propose to vote on this bill so that really the normative acts that are in force are the laws of Ukraine and are foreseen in the State Budget, as they sometimes do, are not always. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u115	Maybe it's the other one. We won't be fine. Please, Aloshin Valery Borisovich, First Deputy Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons. Maybe you're out of town, please. Just tell me everything, and we're voting now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u116	Dear colleagues! I want to inform you that the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons has supported the bill. He welcomed the initiative of the National Deputies to raise the legal standards that regulate the social protection of persons with disabilities in those positions that the rapporteur had already informed the Supreme Council. So there's a proposal to support our committee's decision and to base the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u117	For Suhi's reasons, then, if there's no objection, we'll vote. Dry Jaroslav, for reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u118	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Dear National Deputies! Bill 3526 refers to the circumstances we meet very often with you in the district. And what we're talking about is that there's a lot of problems with our low-security population, with people with disabilities, with pensioners from ignorance, from non-information, and from the wide variety of social standards that protect the rights of people with disabilities. So I call on the Hall to support a bill that regulates in one legal act an existing system of disability benefits and simplification of the application of legal norms and on article 39 of the work experience of the Committee on Social Policy and the work on disability benefits. I ask everyone, during the budget discussion, this should be in our perspective so that people with disabilities do not make redness in the course of public transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u119	Mikhailo Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u120	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. I am ready to support the National Deputy Suskewicz and that this will make appropriate adjustments to our law. But what I'm saying is, you see, so far, the C.C.P.P.S. Decision is working. This is what we need, the legislators, and those who are storming the adoption of laws that then do not work, considering what was once adopted, has been done for years. And now it's accepted, on the second day, we forget about the disabled, we forget about everyone. They accepted, reported, told, and left the disabled with what they were. So let's just say, honourable national MPs, if we adopt the law, let the president and the government think and not just think, but obey the laws that we adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u121	Please, Valery Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u122	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this legislative act that systematically supports our people with disabilities. I propose to support it on a whole, because it does not provide any additional funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u123	Mikola Nightshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u124	Valeriy Mikhailovich, we agreed with you that we'd take it as a basis and work it out, because the questions, they say, are so stingy, delicate and we need to work on them. There is a request not to change your mind, to accept as a basis, and to be able to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u125	I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, registration number 3526. [[on socio-economic services]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u126	Please support your colleagues. [[17:48:17]] For 373
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u127	Decision taken. The draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to Children with Disabilities and Disabled Persons from Childhood on Material Security is being announced for consideration. Reporter Suškević. Valerius Borisovich Aloshin will be the narrator.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u128	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Head of the Supreme Council has addressed you: today 9 laws on disabled persons. This law touches children with disabilities and disabled children from childhood. The point is that today there is a situation where the bill proposes to determine the rights to provide an allowance for the care of a disabled child, to apply the minimum of living, not its level of care. You know, there's a minimum of living, and every year, the State Budget project sets its level of security. It is proposed to expand the circle, which is much smaller today. To provide an allowance for the care of a disabled child, set a subsistence minimum. The second is to give a single mother, a parent an allowance to care for a disabled child without taking into account the total income, regardless of the fact that a father or a mother is working to care for a disabled child or not. The allowance, the right to an allowance, I would like to emphasize again. Third. The bill provides for the payment of aid as the main source of income for its recipients in the current month. Today, people receive subsidies, that is, in the past month. And so today, well, there's a delay in calculating this state aid. And the last thing that is proposed today is to settle, on the basis of the interests of the disabled and children with disabilities, the time frame for the recalculation of aid in the event of a change in the disability group or the disability of the disabled child in favour of the disabled child. It means either in the previous month or in the last month, depending on the increase or decrease in this aid. If the increase is done, let's say in the month that's next; and if the decrease is previous. Again, I repeat, for the sake of the disabled. I mean, today this bill is supported by the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. There's no objection, I'm asking you to support this bill on children with disabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u129	Thank you. Valerius Borisovich Aloshin, please microphone. Turn it on from there.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u130	Dear colleagues, I would like to confirm that Valeriy Mihajlovich has already said that virtually all the proposals in the four directions of this bill have been actively discussed on the committee and supported by the people's deputies, members of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Therefore, there is a proposal to support the relevant draft decree made by the committee on the adoption of the bill on the basis. There is a observation by the Scientific and Expert Office concerning the financial justification and the possibility of introducing this bill within the appropriate deadlines that would meet the requirements of the Budget Code. This can obviously be the subject of a second reading of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u131	I want to add, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I mean, the bill. It must certainly be moved within a period of time after the second reading. So it's on the basis of a proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u132	Yes, Mikola Nightshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u133	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, of the procedure. Such bills are necessarily passed through the budget committee and are budgeted by the Ministry of Finance. I would like it to become a rule because this bill is referred to by the budget committee to those bills that require additional budgetary pressure. I support the bill's proposal to accept as a basis, as it will improve the actual situation of children with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u134	Thank you. Come on, 30 seconds. Proscurat and School. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u135	Tamara Proskuratov, faction of SDPU. The bill deserves support because it contains a number of money. First of all, to clarify how much assistance is to be given, regardless of the level of income of the family, to grant a single mother, to a parent the right to care for a disabled person from childhood, 1 group regardless of the level of income of the family, to clarify how much assistance is to be given to a change in the disability group, or to establish a disabled child. In addition, the legislative proposal to ensure payment of special assistance in the current month and the identification of expenditure for these purposes is undeniable. So I propose to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u136	Thank you. But, dear fellows, let's work on either the release or the procedure. It was a discussion. So you let me down a little bit. School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u137	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. First of all, of course, the procedure. It's a shame that this bill had to be discussed, not just, but allowing everyone who wanted to, because the support of children with disabilities, whatever it was, needs a detailed study and that this bill needs to be supported clearly. But you have to do a little bit more than a little bit of work on it, because there are questions that can be sharpened here and resolved in the future, if not by this bill, the next one, and this one needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u138	Thank you. Andrey, this is what we do, and we react to the reaction of the room. So we define, we see that the room is ready to support. So we're not breaking anything. If there is a denial, then we are guided as we define it. I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Children with Disabilities and Disabled Persons from Childhood on Material Welfare. [[Registration number 3221]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u139	Please support, colleagues, children with disabilities. [[17:55:03]] For 401
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u140	Decision taken. The committee suggests that there are suggestions for further work. Let's listen to the committee's point of view. Dear colleagues! We continue our session for 15 minutes. Next draft of the Oil and Gas Act amending the Oil and Gas Act on the employment of persons with disabilities in the oil and gas sector. The author of the legislative initiative, MP Happochka, asks to be removed from consideration of this bill, let's listen. We don't need all of them. There is a bill to amend article 40 of Ukraine’s mining law on the quota of working cities for disabled persons. Reported by Ukrainian national deputy Yuhim Leonidovich Zviagilski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u141	The distinguished Bureau, bearing in mind that in 2003, a united Europe and our President declared a year to address the problems of persons with disabilities and aware of their involvement in solving the problems of persons with disabilities, is withdrawing my bill from consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u142	Leonid Yuhimovich, forever? Yeah. There's a bill coming out forever. I mean, we don't think there's such a bill, and we thank Leonid Efmovitch for his very good support for the disabled. There is a bill to amend the Ukrainian law on the basis of social protection for disabled persons in Ukraine on the creation of jobs for disabled persons. Author of the bill Dobkin Mikhailo Markovich. I can't see, no, wait for the committee to say, Suskevich. Yes, there's a denial, let's move it, because there's no subject. Maybe he'll be there in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u143	Dear Adam Ivanovich, a conflict arose, a situation arose when there was a bill. He is very likely to be disabled, but there is no drafter. Believe me, the committee handled it very carefully. This is about creating the right conditions for disabled people to work. It's for the protection of the disabled. So I think he can report on behalf of Valery Mikhailovich and make a decision about him.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u144	Roman Mikhailovich, let's agree. Please, Suškevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u145	Dear colleagues, this bill is adopted in the first reading. It's about 300,000 businesses where people with disabilities can work. There is a very serious standard. It is accepted in the first reading. We agreed with the committee that he was. He'll be working on it. But that's a good thing for people with disabilities. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u146	Dear colleagues, no. Yes, please, Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u147	Dear National Deputies! There are issues that need to be dealt with. We're talking about companies with only four men working, which is a four percent deviation from the general standard, and it's twenty-five percent. It's about small businesses. And when we fine them for job creation, there may be problems with the disappearance of such businesses. So there's a request to think about this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u148	Dear colleagues, I mean again. The language goes, first reading with changes corresponding to this bill. That's what I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u149	Honorable colleagues when there are no objections. Take it off. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u150	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's working block "Our Ukraine". Dear National MPs, the project he is proposing now, reports Mr. Suškević, it is necessary. See, in the United States there are similar projects that require all business owners, even small ones, regardless of the form of ownership, to provide one job for a disabled person, even though half the time he would work. If it's not half, at least a third of it would be possible to ask the question for discussion if it's economically difficult. You could write a third, it wouldn't be that hard, and I'm talking to my colleague Pinzenic. But we're going to solve this problem, the problem of these people. They don't want to beg, they want to make money. Thus, the law can be completely painless in the first reading. Repeat, painlessly, and the second reading can be calculated, perhaps a third. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is no objection, so I am voting on the adoption of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, registration number 3559. [[on the creation of workplaces for persons with disabilities]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u152	First reading, colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u153	Based on what I said. [[18:01:11]] For 287 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u155	The draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster is being announced for consideration. [[on children with disabilities]] Is it wide, Yuri Volodymyrovich? Ah, Mikola Sherschun, Bondarenko get ready. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u156	Dear colleagues, your consideration is accompanied by a bill proposing to supplement article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster with the provision “to grant the status of victims of the first category of children affected after they have reached the age of adulthood who have received a child's certificate under the criteria of "radiation of the thyroid as a result of the Chernobyl disaster above the levels established by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine". This category includes children who at the time of the accident lived in areas not classified as radioactive pollutants and whose parents do not have the status of victims as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. We have received positive conclusions from the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Budget Committee commented that its standards should not be applied until the new fiscal year, or January 1, 2005. But the national deputies of Ukraine, Bondaren, Polishchuk, Omelchenko, have introduced a bill that also envisages extending the status of the disabled person to a defined article 27 of the Act of Victims of Adulthood. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster reviewed both bills at its meeting and proposed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens Affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on Disabled Persons from Childhood", submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Yuri Shirk, register 2470. And the position of the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on the Confirmation of the Status of Chernobyl Disabled Persons, register 3730-1 was submitted by the National Deputies Bondarenko, Polishchuk, Omelchenko to be included in the second reading. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u157	Thank you, sit down, please. Vladimir Bonadrenco. We're going to have to look at two more bills, and I'm asking you to be patient, my dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u158	Vladimir Bondarenko, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues! A draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster is being submitted to your consideration. A long period of time has been introduced to this law by various changes that have reduced the protection of the disabled, and today we are proposing to make changes that increase this protection. It's about children who had the status of an invalid, and then when they're 18 years old, they have to renew it as an adult. There's another way, a simpler way, which is proposed in this bill. In addition, we believe that it would be socially fair for a disabled child to pay compensation to the family in the event of the death of a disabled child, as is the case with the disabled of the different categories referred to as the victims of the Chernobyl AES accident. There is a special article of the 48th Act that defines such compensation to these families. If a disabled child dies in the family, such compensation is not foreseen. There are a number of other technical supplements. So, when I analyzed the law proposed by my colleague Shirk, and the bill that we passed with my colleague Polishchuk and Omelchenko a little later and a half a month later, we would like to inform the Supreme Council that, from the point of view of standardization and from the point of view of a deeper approach to the analysis and amendment of this law, we would ask this bill, which we have submitted, to take as a basis, and then, in furthering, to include positions that are fully consistent, because the Shirka bill applies only to one article and our little wider circle of articles. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues, then we will vote. Is there no objection? I'll put these documents to the vote in order to register. I'm the first to vote on the draft People's Deputy Wide number 2470. Here's a committee proposal: to accept as a basis. Please vote on the basis. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. [[18:06:50]] For 358 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Act on Amendments to Article 5 of the Ukrainian Psychiatric Assistance Act is being announced for consideration. Taras Cranwell from the procedure. "Psystolic care." [[on financial assistance to a low-income person living with a disability of the first or second group]] Mikola Efremovich, wait. Now it's Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u160	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Because the first bill in the couple who went was voted out, it's perfectly normal. But the second bill, I think, would also get enough votes in the room. It's the first reading. We can vote for both the second and the second readings to unite them. What is the problem?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u161	We can't, unfortunately. If we were to vote there in a bag, then it's possible to do it. Or for re-reading, if we make that decision, it's also possible. That's the only way the committee's supposed to take into account the work. Please, Bondarenko. That's what the committee will take into account, and he wrote it down in his ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u162	Vladimir Bondarenko, city of Kiev Dear colleagues, I have spoken, but unfortunately today the hall has been tired and late, few have heard of the fact that the law of Shirka only touches one article of the law, which I have been taught in about the same words and positions, but I have also added articles on the protection of families where a disabled child has died, as well as some others. That's why they look like a name, but according to my content, I have a much broader bill, and I don't think we should lower those positions, vote them, and then we would be co-authors for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u163	Dear colleagues, our colleague Vladimir Bondarenko obviously has a logic, but there is a committee decision, so let's go over it again to take the committee into account, expand and supplement the law, and give it a comprehensive view of Bondarenko's proposals. We cannot vote because the committee has considered and one of them has offered to accept. Let's do it this way. We'll draw up a protocol assignment. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u164	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm pointing out that, first of all, these are very serious questions, and these are two different questions. It's that they've now been brought together for consideration and made sort of alternative questions, but they're not alternatives. In the first instance, it is a tragedy for those children who have become ill with thyroid radiation. That's 500,000 people. Do you understand? This is a tragedy today in Ukraine, a gene pool of conservation. And in the second case, it's also a tragedy. And these questions cannot be countered. And one question has to be voted on, it has to be voted on, and the other, Vladimir Mikhailovich, has to be accepted on the first reading. On the second reading, the committee will be able to bring this together. Now they cannot be united; they are related to various issues. And what the Secretariat has put together and has given you is not meant to put bills into this. Do you understand? I protect people today, not authors, but people.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u165	Thank you. Dear colleagues! They are not united by the Secretariat, I want to clarify, and I want to check whether the Secretariat has done so, and they are united by a committee with two projects. He considered them, he made the right decision. The author of the bill, Vladimir Bondarenko, agreed, and the committee said that they would expand the project by taking the basis of the Shik and adding all the positions that Vladimir Bondarenko took. In addition, in addition to the ruling in which we voted, the committee that made the proposal, we will give a protocol commission on this matter. And on the second reading, we'll see what's taken into account, what's wrong, and we'll make the right decision. We've done the right thing for that matter, I think. Please, Mikola Efremovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u166	Thank you. Mr. Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable members of the national parliament, is now under consideration by me and the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Rajis, a bill aimed at improving the social protection system of the first and second groups of persons with disabilities as a result of mental disorders. What's the point of the law? Today, those who care for the disabled have 17 bracelets of help for the first, second, mental illness. And we're introducing a bill that doesn't just define 17 dollars, but that defines 10 percent of the minimum living minimum. So today it's going to be 34 bracelets. Even in Soviet times, there were 30 Carbovanians who cared for the mentally ill person of the first, second, group. Thus, the bill stipulates that it will not be necessary to keep counting people or to make changes to any law of a person’s care allowance. It will simply automatically change the cost of living and will automatically increase the help of these people who care for mentally ill children and people. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u167	No warning, no respectable colleagues? Yuri Carmazin, please. And then the government. Mikhailo Melniczuk, then the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u168	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I don't have a warning, I would just ask you, in view of the fact that people are always asking questions about this, I would like to thank Poljszczek and Richter for raising that question, and to adopt this law immediately in two readings, I have an offer, because it's very short here, and a few words of it all add up. And what's notice or warning is that it's going to cost 1.8 million. The money is in the government's outhouse today, seven billion that are hidden when the budget is adopted. Thus, the law can be passed peacefully in the first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u169	Thank you. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u170	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear colleagues, let's think about what is being proposed at all, and what do we want to support? What it means is that a person in such difficult circumstances takes care of a mentally ill person and 34 bracelets, when it was said that in Soviet power it was 30 rubles, it was more than 30 dollars, more than 50 dollars, says colleagues. So, ladies and gentlemen, if there's a million things you need, let's do it anyway, just so it's the minimum pension that works today. But tomorrow a person dies, a disabled person, who's going to get a pension for 34 bracelets? What we're doing here. Let's go back to the sum, though. If fixed, I think this minimum pension should be for those who care for mentally ill people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u171	Boris Bespali, please, and then the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u172	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, we are in a situation where, as in the Bible proverb, you are both right and right. What my colleague Melniczuk says is absolutely right. It's really no one's supposed to get the basic cost of living: neither pension nor scholarship, below the minimum of living. But in this case, because our colleagues are offering promotions to look after, although it's clear that it's not enough, but they're increasing aid and simplifying the procedure, I don't think anyone will have a hand to vote against. And the fact that we are not finalizing these issues is also understandable. And I think my colleague Melniczuk will also make some kind of constructive contribution. So I think we can vote now and in general as well. And then go back to that question again. So there's no problem with that, there's no contradiction. Please support us in general as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u173	Mikola Nightshenko, please, then the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u174	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. We're having a debate right now, which is more about who's more concerned about the people with disabilities that are being talked about right now. But none of the speakers said what the pressure on the budget, where the funding would go, which would be the number of the funding. You're so worried. I ask that you be able to make the right calculations so that this aid doesn't cause an additional increase in debt to these people, that then you'll be raising questions in this room as a social, moving attitude towards these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u175	Yes, government, please. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Honorary Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, given the importance of social protection of the stated category of citizens and taking into account the relatively small amount of additional expenses, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine supports the adoption of the bill, the positions taken into account, as determined by the Ministry of Finance. We're asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u176	Dear colleagues, since there is a committee decision, there is support for the government, so we have good reason to vote on adoption as a basis and as a whole as a law Draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Psychiatric Assistance Act. [[on financial assistance to a low-income person living with a disability]] Registration number 3279. Please vote on the basis and as a whole as a law. [[18:17:30.]] For 340. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! If you don't mind, the last bill in this series. It's a draft decision. Please, Your Honor, Suskevich is asking. Let's draft a decision to withdraw draft Ukrainian laws amending articles 19 and 20 of the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. Here's an image, there's nothing to comment on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u177	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw attention to the fact that our colleagues, the national deputy of Hapoczka and Zvigilski today have withdrawn two drafts. These bills are contrary to the fact that they touch the system of employment of persons with disabilities. Today our committee has prepared a draft of similar bills to avoid discrimination against persons with disabilities. I'll call them 3094, 2056, 2541 and 2567. I ask you to vote on removing them from consideration as being contrary to the rights of persons with disabilities. I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u178	No objections? I am voting on the adoption as a basis and, as a whole, as a decree, the draft decision to withdraw draft Ukrainian laws, to amend articles 19 and 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. Registration number 4426. Please vote. [[18:19:11]] For 337 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u179	And I hope you will support the disabled as much as you do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m1.u180	Thank you. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thanks for the job. Tomorrow we'll resume our meeting at 10 o'clock. We'll discuss Wednesday's schedule.
