ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u1	Invite the national deputies to the session room. Dear colleagues! Please take your places of work. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:45.]] Registered -384 There are 384 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We are now moving on to the question of the election of judges. From the committee, please, Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk. May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u2	Dear Head! Distinguished People's Deputies! Honorable candidates for the appointment of judges on an untimely basis! The Supreme Council of Ukraine received the submission of the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u3	One minute, Mikolo Vasilovich. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to focus, listen. And let's think about it this way. They're going to call the names of the candidates for the judges on an untimely basis, if there's a warning, you raise your hand, then we're going to make a deal: we're going to vote separately on those judges on which there's a warning. So please listen carefully so that questions do not arise. It's better if they're not here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u4	I'm going on. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy of the Supreme Council has considered all submissions quite carefully. This is about the election of the judges of the local courts of general jurisdiction and the judges of the courts of appeal of general jurisdiction to elect them on an uninterrupted basis. All those who are now to be announced and on the list for consideration are those candidates for the election of judges on an untimely basis who have passed the committee, and I'm stressing this to you, dear colleagues. Those candidates for the selection of judges who have not passed or whose committees are formed for an additional chapter are not on the list. May I have your attention, Your Honor? Today is a pretty large number of judges, about 150, so I'm asking you to focus. Draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, and part of the first article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides: To elect judges of the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrovsk Region: Baryl's Alla Petrovna, Karnauh Valentine's Day Volodymyrna, Litwinenko Valentine's Day, Lyahu's Irina Eugene, Mitrophan's Love Vasilovna, Schnipov Love Grigorovna. The Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region: Barkhova Ludmila Leonidivna, Vlasenko Ludmila Ivanovna, Djáchenko Valerija Mikolaiovich, Ignatola Tetjana Grigorovna, Kozlova Alexander Mihajlovich, Kochegarova Larissa Mikolayovna, Nadion Valentine Andriyevna, and Charina Tetjana Alexiyevna. Court of Appeal of the District of Žitomir: Hudyakova Andrija Mikhailovich; the Court of Appeal of the district of Zaporozhye Anatolia Anatoliyovich; the Court of Appeal of Ivano-Frankiv district, the Corn of Bogdan Ivanovich; The Court of Appeal of Kirovograd - Stephyl Natal Ivanovna, School of Education Viktor Fedorovich; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv Region - Suhanov Elizabeth Mikolayevna; The Court of Appeal of the Ternopil Region, Maximovich Yuri Andriyovich; The Court of Appeal of the Hersonian Region - Bugrimenka Vladimir Grigorovitch, Buženko Natalija Viktorovna, Zaichenka Vladimir Leonidovic, Kovalova Natala Mikolayovna, Ratushna Victoria Alexandrovna, Red Elizabeth Alexandrovna and Chupina Stanislav Pavlovich; the Court of Appeal of the Chernivetsk Region - Half-Venkin Natal Yuriyovna and Cmyr Ivan Haritonović; The Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv Region is the Melnickenka Jurija Volodymirovich and Osidaj Mikola Mikolaiovich, as well as Shemice Natala Viktorovna. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next one, to the appointment of local courts: The local Alushtine City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u5	So, Mikola Vasilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u6	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there is an offer, since the appointed judges to the appeals courts, there were no comments, to vote separately on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. All decree, let's read all the decree, then vote. We have a decree, but we can't break it into two parts. Next, read the surnames.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u8	There's an offer there.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u9	Then we'll go back, but we agreed, I beg you, dear colleagues, listen carefully when you call it the last name, which., call it the last name, we'll take it behind the braces, and then I ask you to listen carefully. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u10	I'm moving on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u11	One minute, Gregory Omelchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u12	Gregory Omelchenko, Julia Timoshenko's block faction Honorable National MPs, Honourable Head and Honourable Reporter! Yesterday there was a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fight against corruption and organized crime, where material was received on the abuse of the official status of the judge, Mrs. Ratuszny Victoria Alexandrovna. The committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, pending the objective examination of the complaint, the material that had come, not to elect an untimely judge of the Dnipropetrovsk local court of Herson Ratushna as Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Herson District. The committee's decision is in my hands. I ask you to delete this candidature from the list until a check is carried out and the committee, the High Council of Justice and your committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u13	Pass this decision over, just so it's in the right order here, please. Please, let's move on. A local court of Alustin. We're still reading. Please, Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u14	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear reporter! I'd like to know if there's a candidate here for the Herson Court of Appeal. And the question I have to ask you about is, with regard to this candidate, I've given you appropriate references to the district court, I've expressed an appropriate point of view as to whether or not I want to work in a court of law. Please answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u15	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you again, let's take this procedure. Read last name, area. If there is a remark, you raise your hand or voice to say that you have a comment to make. We put this candidature up for parentheses, we vote for those to whom there are no comments, then we will deal with each specific candidature. Let's not block the process that way. Yes, we read on. Please. Pay attention to that, dear fellows!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, so on the list.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u17	No, Santa. We read: The local court of Lucinda and move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u18	Local Luchin City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea: Pimenova Tetjana Nikiforovna
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u19	Yeah, go on, go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u20	Local Bahchisarai District Court, also Crimea, Beskov Vladimir Ivanovich. Local Biologic District Court, Crimea, Nikolayev Hennady Mikhailovich. Local Sack District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea - Kostukov Valeriy Viktorovich The local Apostolic District Court of the Dnipropetrov region - Diba Lubov Mikolayevna The local Yellowwater City Court of Dnipropetrovsk district is the Province of Tetjana Viktorovna. Local Margarine City Court of Dnipropetrovsk, Panasenko Olena Pavlovna Local Pavlovgrad City Court of Dnipropetrovsk Region - Timchenko Sergey Alexanderovich. He's got a point to make, and I'll talk about it later. It is suggested that it be withdrawn in connection with the examination of the facts. Local First Level City Court of Dnipropetrovsk, Zajtsev Vasil Viktorovich. Local Petropavlov City Court of Dnipropetrovsk District - Burda Petr Alexiyovich. One minute, Burda? Borschewski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u21	I ask you to remove from the list Burdu, Petropavlovsky District Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u22	Okay. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u23	Local Shirokhiv District Court of the Dnipropetrovsk Region - Lisnecki Igor Valentinović Local Kirovsky District Court of Dnipropetrovska - Podbrzezny Hennady Anatoliyovich The local Jótnev District Court of the city of Krywog Dnipropetrovsk district - Prejezanov Alexander Volodymyrovic. The local Audio City Court of the Donetsk Region of Soboljeva Inesa Petrovna; The local Artemov Regional Court of the Donetsk Region Božko Vladimir Petrovich; The local Mikitov court of Gorlovka Donetsk Region Poltavec Natalija Zinovyevna; the local Berdian District Court of the Moroka Region of Moroka Sergey Mihajlovich; the local Berdian City Court of Zaporozhye Region of Vienna Tetjanyev Grigorovna and Kartoflicki Glib Viktorovich; The local Tokmack District Court of Zaporozhye District, Shapoval Mikola Jonovich; local Shevchenkovsky District Court of Zaporozhye Klasztorny Viktor Sergiyovich; the local Bogorochan District Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Gutić Petr Fedorovich; the local Galician District Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Melnik Ivan Ivanovich; the local Gorodsky District Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Stefurak Evgen Mihajlovich; the local Colombian City Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Vasilkovsky Vladimir Methodiusovich; The local Ivano-Frankiv city court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Gózdik Pavel Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u24	Yeah, one minute. Yes, please, the Turks.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u25	Thank you. Dear Chief and Spokesman, I ask the Judge to step down from the discussion and be ready to make an argument on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u26	Yeah, let's move on. Okay. The local Svetienne District Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u27	The local Svetienne District Court of Ivano-Frankiv District of Rožik Evgen Volodymirovich; The local Tlumatic District Court of Ivano-Frankiv, Tetekil Mikhail Josephovich; the local Jaremcan City Court of the same area of Grebek Love Volodymyrna; the local Swatov district court of the Luhansk district of Jurchenk Stanislav Aleksandrovitch; The local district court of the Mikolai district of Seiz Tatyana Opanasovna; the local Berezan district court of the Mikolai district of Dorosenko Antonin Volodymyrna; the local Woznesen district of the same district of Maluk Tetjana Alexandrian; the local Woznesen City Court of the Mikolai district of Staržinska Olga Eugenyevna; The local Mikolai District Court of the Mikolai district of Nikita, Julius Alexandrovna; the local Malobuski District Court also the Mikolai district of Ostapenka Valerija Jakovic; the local factory district court of Mikolaiwa Koval Viktor Ivanovich and Razumovski Olga Georgievna; the local Ship's District Court of Mikolaywa Corzun Galina Opanasovna; the local Lenin district court of Mikolayea Gubachev Volodymira Alexiyyovich and Josam Victoria Mikhaylovna; the local Ananii District Court of Odessa district of Skurtov Mikhail Ivanovich;
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u28	Just a minute. Skortov, please, Calinchuk to the microphone. Skortov, yes. Let's figure out a yes, let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u29	The local Bologna District Court of Odessa, Timoshenko, Irina Voldemar; the local Kili district court of Odessa Oblast of Božkov Mikola Ivanovich; the local Kodim district court of the Odessa district of Příti Vasil Maksimovic; the local Kotovo District Court of Odessa, Pavlovsk Galina Vasilovna; the local Kotov City Court of the Odessa Region of Pabyzhevsky Sergey Anatoliyovich; The local Red. The District Court of the Odessa Region of Chobotarenko Xanau Leonidovna; the local Mikolai District Court of the Odessa region of Bezusov Vladimir Ivanovich; the local Ovidiopolski District Court of the Odessa District of Purkan Mikolaiovich; The local District Court of Odessa, Kater's Nadia Ivanovna; The local Tarutin district court of the same Odessa district of Onufrienk Anatoly Prokopovich. the local Tatarbunar District Court of the Odessa District of Timoshenko Sergey Viktorovich; the local Shiriyai District Court of the Odessa Region of Jankovsky Valerija Kostinović; the local Frunzen District Court of Odessa, Honchar Irina Volodymyrna; the local Malinov district court of Odessa Koroya Viktor Dmitrovic; the local Primorski District Court of Odessa, Borovské Valentina Ivanovna; the local Suvorov District Court of Odessa, Honcharov Boris Petrovich; the local Kuznetsov City Court of the Provincial Region of Poluchovich Oleg Ivanovich; the local Zbarah District Court of Ternopil district of Gudim Igor Volodymirovich; The Mifsci-Zmijski District Court of the Kharkiv district of Oudienk Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich; the local Krasnokut District Court of Kharkiv Region of Mordovenk Viktor Ivanovich; the local Chuguyaw city court of Kharkiv district of Humený Zinovich; Dear colleagues, excuse me, Vladimir Volodymyrovich;
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u30	Yeah, go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u31	And according to the National MP's statement for further consideration, Ovdijenko Volodymyrovich was removed. Next. the local Chuguyava City Court of Kharkiv Oblast of Humený Zinovich; the local Borislav District Court of the Herson District of Kalinick Igor Stepanović; the local District Court of the Herson district of Škinder Alexander Anatoliyovich; the local Holoprist District Court of the Hersonian Region of Popov Vitali Fedorovich; The local Ivanov District Court of the Hersonian Region - Polycarp Olga Mikolayevna; the local Kakhov District Court of the same area - Furman Tetjan Grigorovna; The local Novovorontsov district court of the same area is Synopus Maria Sidorovna; the local Chaplin District Court of the same area, the Hungarian Nina Borisovna; the local Voloczyn district court of the Hmelnick district - Namostoma Vasil Pavlovich; The local Hmělnice District Court, Kelbusa Sergija Pilipovich;
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u32	What do we have?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u33	Dear colleagues! The Hungarian Nina Borislavovna is proposed by the National Deputy for individual consideration. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u34	Dear colleagues! If there is, please raise your hand and state your position. Don't make any room for me, please. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u35	Please be in position.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u36	Deputy School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u37	Thank you. I just want to point out that here at the Chernobyl Court of Appeal we missed Chmil Ivan Haritonovich. I actually have a warning, and I'd like to ask him a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u38	Which one?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u39	This is the Cherniewsky region, Chmil Ivan Haritonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u40	Let's move on. Local Danube District Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u41	The local Danube County Court of Hmeljna Oblast - Kucherovav Alla Volodymyrna; The local Kamenac-Podil City Court of Hmělnický.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u42	Just a minute. Please, Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u43	I'm out of procedure. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm talking to the judges who are here. I think the presentation actually happened, and we don't have any claims against these judges. If this happens, that maybe sometimes there's not enough votes, then when we vote in agreement, we don't have to call the judges, we vote without them, and it's all right for them not to think that it's someone against them.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u44	I am convinced that we will vote today. Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u45	The local Kamyanec-Podil City Court of Hmělnicke District - Hare Vladimir Stepanovich and Talai Olga Ivanovna; The local Krasilov district court of the Hmelnitsk district of -.kovsky Anatoly Andrivovich. The local Novouszick District Court of the Hmelnick district of Slobodanuk Vasil Ivanovč. The local Hmelnick City Court of the Hmelnick area of Latjuk Petar Jakovic. This same court is Romanišin Volodymyr Leonidovich. The local Cemerev district court of the Hmelnicki district of Moroz Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. The local, deep district court of Chernivecko district of Herasimenko Nadia Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u46	One minute, Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u47	George Manchulenko, 203rd District, Cherniewecka District, Our Ukraine. It is the Ostapovich Viacheslava Isakovič local Zastavanicki District Court of Cherniewecka District. I'll add the arguments later.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u48	I was just about to announce it, and so Ostapovich is being removed from further consideration. The local Kermen district court of Cherniewsky district of Harabarov Ivan Vasilovich. The local Sokiryan district court of the Cernovetsek district of Saraskull Viacheslav Ilić The local District Court of Czernovetska Oblast of Bezpalko Mikola Sergiyovič and Djaczuk Alexandro Alexandrovna. The local Hotinsky District Court of the Czernovetsk district of Martinjuk Anatolia Omelanovic. The local Mansk district court of Chernigiv County, Serduk Alexander Grigorovich. The local district court of Czernigów, Siry Mikola Grigorovitch. The local Novozavod District Court of Chernigova Antrashka Mikhail Ivanovich. And the local Delhi District Court of Kiev, Boginkevich Svetlana Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I put to the vote the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling of 3382 on the election of judges, without delay removing Zachenko Vladimir Leonidovich, Ratushna Victoria Alexandrovna, Shmil Ivan Haritonovich, Burdo Peter Alexiyovich, Associator Pavel Alexanderovich, Skurtova Mikhail Ivanovich, Oudienka Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich, and Ostapovich Viácheslav Isakovič. I'm betting on the election of judges on an untimely basis, this is the draft of Decree 3382 removing the names that I have named. Change the vote. Please, Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u50	Pinzenik, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, Your Honor. I would like to state that the vote will now take place, it will not reflect your attitude. We support and appreciate your work, and we understand how important your assignment is, but today there are other problems that may cause you to fail. I wish you wouldn't worry, because you're all worthy to hold positions, and you're going to hold those positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting this decision to the vote. I'd like the Judicial Corps not to be a hostage to the breakup in Parliament. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u52	Please support the submission of the committee. [[16:26:08]] For 231 Decision taken. Please, Zatyenie Vladimir Leonidovich. Orzhachowski, please. Let's do the factions. We agreed that the judges' issues would be considered, let's solve this problem. Please turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u53	Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u54	Orzhachowski!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u55	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Anatoly Orzhachowski, Hersonian, faction of the Ukrainian Company. What I wanted to know about Judge Zachenko, a candidate for the Herson Court of Appeal, was that I had just made it clear to him. The problem was really before these materials were, but I've made it clear and I'm asking you to withdraw the warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u56	I ask you to vote. I'm voting for the election of Judge Zaichenko Vladimir Leonidovich, the Court of Appeal of the Hersonian Region. Please vote, please vote. [[16:27:42]] For 230 Decision taken. Escort Victor Alexanderovich to the microphone, please. I'm sorry, Hallowed Victoria Alexandrovna. Grigory Omelyanovich Omelchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u57	Gregory Omelchenko. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! Yesterday, these materials were sent to our Committee on Combating Corruption and Organized Crime. And please read the committee’s decision. Until the objective examination of these materials has been completed, postpone voting for the appointment of Judge of City Victoria Alexandrovna. We're sending the materials to the Attorney General's Office, the Legal Committee, and the High Council of Justice. To hear just one explanation from the judge on these facts today is not enough. An objective examination is needed, and that is why the committee requests that the vote be postponed today until the test is completed, as the material came only yesterday. And I ask you to listen to the committee's decision. It was adopted unanimously. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u58	Yes, the committee's opinion, please. Yeah, it's a profile committee's opinion. We should have put them on the committee, discussed them together. I say again, the committee's opinion and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, the situation is that you know that the Committee of Legal Policy sends all the materials in advance regarding the election of judges to the Committee and the Ukrainian National Deputies. And yesterday, literally, we were looking at the last ones called, statements and complaints, and the submissions that came in, and unfortunately, if he did, this material, yesterday on the committee, we would have looked at it. You know, the committee didn't have any comments on Mrs. Ratuszny Victoria Alexandrovna. But, Your Honor, if there's an opinion from the entire High Council committee, I think we have to go back to this issue, and the Committee on Legal Policy would recommend that we don't discuss it today, but in the very near future, consider it on the committee and get out with the agreed question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u60	National Deputy Dobkin, is that a question? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u61	Thank you. Dear President, distinguished colleagues, we have strange things going on in the session room today. We are trying here, without knowing the reasons, only at the cries of one of our colleagues to try the judges themselves. There's a committee, there's a prosecutor's office, there's a Supreme Council of Justice, if there's a problem with the judges, let the specialists do it. Let's vote for everyone right now and let the people go to work quietly. And if anyone violates, write to the prosecution, Kiwalov to the Supreme Council of Justice, Mr. Onopenko to the committee, and let the people know professionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, what should we vote on if the committee asks us to postpone this matter? I mean the Committee on Legal Policy, considering the submission of the Committee on Anti-Criminality.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u63	I ask that you pay attention to one situation. Usually, if the People's Chamber of the Supreme Council denies it, you know, we listen to arguments and we vote. But the national deputy Omelchenko said that there was a decision by the committee of the entire Supreme Council on the matter. I think we need to listen to such an exceptional case and consider Mrs. Ratschnyak's question further.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u64	Yes, have a seat, please, next time we'll talk. Schmil Ivan Haritonovich. Who gave the warning? Please, Ivan Haritonovich, where? To the rostrum, please. Who gave the warning? Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u65	Thank you. Dear Ivan Haritonovich, please explain why you, as Judge of the Court of Appeal, have ruled an unfair decision on the ZAT Light case? The court finds that the new statute of business is invalid. The same court ruled the subject matter and found that the decisions of the general congregations were invalid. And you ignored the Colombian District Court ruling that the prosecutor's illegal actions regarding a criminal case involving the head of government regarding the blocking of her actions were dismissed. And at the time of the stock registration, the court found it invalid. But you've closed your eyes to all of this and made a decision in favor of criminality, for another benefit. I'd like to ask this question, but to remind the honourable MP who spoke of it, it's not just the people who are yelling, it's the voters who are sitting here. I've got 160,000 voters behind me. If the deputy is behind him alone, let him say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u66	Ivan Haritonovich, please. I beg your attention, fellow believers, but the fate of man is being determined. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u67	Thank you for the questions, but the court did not decide on the action, the court decided on the matter of the congregations, the authority of the congregations, or the power of wrongfulness. The action was not decided by the court.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u68	Yes, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u69	Fellow dignitaries, the committee considered all the questions that had to do with the work of the judge, carefully considered the observations, including the analysis of those court decisions that were taken by the court of the first instance, the Court of Appeal, and the Supreme Court. The committee’s decision is to recommend a designated judge for election on an open-ended basis. I would like to point out that we have found no basis for refusing to make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u70	I've got the position. Dear colleagues, you have listened to the argument, now I'm putting to the vote for the election of Smil Ivan Haritonovich to the Court of Appeal of the Montenegrin District judge on an uninterrupted basis. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u71	The committee supports submission. [[16:34:00]] For 225
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u72	Ask for an additional vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? It's the fate of the people. Please take your seats. Respect people if you don't respect yourself. And determine by vote. I am voting for the election of Cmil Ivan Haritonovich, the Court of Appeal of the Cherniewec Region, to the judge on an uninterrupted basis. And vote, please. [[16:34:41]] For 228 Decision taken. Burda Peter Alexiovich. Yes, who makes the warning? National MP Borschevski. Where's Burda? There's a storm in the stands. That's right, by the microphone, I'm sorry. Orzhachowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich. Burda is not just a judge, he is the head of the district court. And he should have complied with the oath of a judge and all the rules of procedural law. But I have a lot of complaints about how Judge Burda does her job. Sengur, a resident of Petropavlovka, had not tried his dispute over pies for 14 months. Moreover, the complainant is still unable to obtain a decision from the judge. So, too, the most terrible train goes into Martinenko Galina Semenovna. There's a train going after Grey. Valentina Gavrilovne. A similar fiber that did not allow for a complaint of appeal to be lodged by the Corobian family in the family. And the last. Ladies and gentlemen, you and I have been looking for a solution to the Bank of Ukraine for almost a year. Thus, the above-mentioned judge has spent more than two years in the process of obtaining credit from the Dnepropetrovsk KSP, which has resulted in the theft and sale of everyone. And if we look at his personal case, before he became a judge, he represented it to the CPD. I have therefore also reported to the Committee on Organized Crime, and the Committee has decided to request that all these facts be verified and that no decision be taken today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u75	Yes, thank you. Please, Peter Alexiovich Burda.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u76	All these matters, which the distinguished MP of Borsztagski called, have already been considered. Singar is on the case, in the Korobski case, in the Korobski case. The Martinenko case was considered by another judge; it was also considered; it is on appeal before the Dnipropetrov Court. According to the Bank of Ukraine, our court did not consider the issue of borrowing, it was only in 1999 that we were investigating actions against State contractors. This matter was considered and the actions of the performers were found to be wrong. After that, we did not consider any cases of withdrawals from the bank or withdrawals for the benefit of the bank. These are the cases of the court of commerce.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u77	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u78	Honorable colleagues, when considering the application of this particular judge, did not receive any material that could be the subject of an analysis of his activities. And naturally, in view of the recommendation made by the Supreme Court, the committee decided to recommend it on an uninterrupted basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u79	I'll bet. No, that's all they said. It's not a discussion. I am voting for the election of Burda Peter Alexiyovich, the local Petropavlovsky District Court of the Dnipropetrov District Judge. Please vote. [[16:38:53]] For 208 The decision is not taken. Gózdik Pavel Aleksandrovich. Who among the national deputies made warnings? Alexander the Turkinov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u80	Dear colleagues! First of all, I'm talking to the majority MPs, where many people are interested in different forms of business. The point is, in the city of Ivano-Frankivsk, a criminal group was formed that was blackmailing, blackmailing, taking assets from businesses. And according to the investigation, this was handled by Major UBOZ Pastushenko and the prosecutor covered it. When businessmen tried to press charges in court, Judge Gózdik made notoriously illegal decisions. In particular, he wrote "The Voice of Ukraine." This was about ZAT Light. UBZ Major Pastushenko is sentenced to seven years, the prosecutor is dismissed, and Judge Gózdik is offered to be elected on an untimely basis. Therefore, dear colleagues, we feel that this matter should be investigated. The materials are all, as far as I know, transferred to the committee. And in our opinion, we can talk more than just about voting, we need to investigate these matters seriously. And, I think that should be done by the Attorney General's Office and other appropriate institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u81	Eugene Gorenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u82	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! I've actually got some extra material that concerns ZAT Lights, and I'm confirming the information of Turkinov, so I'm asking you to take the vote on Judge Hvzdik. I'll deliver the materials today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u83	Let's listen to the judge. Please, Paul Alexanderovich Gózdik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u84	Dear Mr. Head! Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! By me, really, discussed the ZAT Light and really made a decision that was subsequently overturned. As far as any criminal action is concerned, they were not committed by me or any of the other parties to the case, because the decision of the Attorney General and the other prosecutors who dealt with these matters was violated in criminal offences of any kind. After the case was referred to the Montenegrin Court of Appeal, the same decision was made, and you have just heard Judge Jamil's explanation. That's all I can say on this issue. It was repeatedly checked as a prosecutor's office, a council of judges and other institutions, and all the decisions were without prejudice on my part.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u85	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, Paul Alexandrovich Gózdik works as the head of the court, and we studied very carefully on the committee in view of the situation and the complaints that came from the national deputies. And in particular this case about the ZAT Light, which was discussed today, has been very carefully considered in the context of a possible solution, including the decision of the appellate and cassational institutions. I will be honest that the committee has not found any basis for at least making a different decision on this matter than what has been taken today. This is to recommend Paul Alexander’s choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u87	I'll take the vote, please. On the election of Mr. Paul Alexanderovich, the local Johno-Frankow City Court of the Johno-Frankow district judge. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u88	Please be supportive. [[16:42:54]] For 203
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u89	The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'm just calling you: either you don't pull people's nerves, in a judge, or you say you don't want to work, or you vote if you don't have a claim on a person. Skuratov Mikhailo Ivanovich. Odessa region. Please, Kalinchuk Vasil.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u90	Thank you. Mikola Vasilovich, I'll have a question for you first and then for Skuratov. In general, I have great respect for the judiciary as a whole and for each judge separately, but I have a question for you, to the first deputy head of the committee. Has he considered the committee of the Head of the Ananii District Education and Science Workers' Association, who is the head of the Ananii Association of Education, Taras Shevchenk Schmil, in which he raises four questions concerning the judge of the district of Skurtov Mikhail Ivanovich, and whether he has invited the committee to the same applicant Schmil's request, the materials from the Lubashiv Prosecutor's Office of the Odessa Region, which conducted a review of these facts? And how did the committee vote on this candidature? Thank you. This is for you, and then Skortova I'll ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in fact, there were quite a lot of materials on Skort Mikhail Ivanovich for analysis, and we have even created a special work commission for this case, which has carefully studied all the materials. And at the committee's very meeting, the chairman of this working committee reported all the materials on whether or not they were in action, such as Skortov for some reason. Justice is the type of violation that could give rise to a failure to recommend it for election. I have to tell you that all the decisions made by Skurtov, in fact, the appeals office then confirmed this decision, i.e. in fact, he did not make mistakes. There may have been some procedural disturbances in the pages that made him appear to be unobjective, but in fact, the verification material showed that there was no reason for the committee to reject his candidacy. Therefore, we recommend that we recommend it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u92	Please, your questions to Skurtov. Kalinczuk Vasil.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u93	Mikhail Ivanovich, I address you. The materials of the examinations concerning you as the heads of the Ananias District Court were sent by the District Attorney's Office to a qualified commission of judges of the Odessa Court of Appeal to address the issue of bringing you to disciplinary responsibility under article 131 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges. Tell me, this question has been discussed, if you can tell me why. And what a disciplinary punishment you've been given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u94	Please, Mikhail Vasilovich Skurtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u95	Deputies! There was indeed such a record of the prosecution, but the head of the appeal court, Vlonichenko Anatoly Vasilovich, responded, and a copy of this reply is on the profile committee that recommended my appointment. There's no reason to do anything!!!!!!!!Oh, my God! I mean, I didn't break the judge's oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u96	Please, the position of the committee is final. Cosaczenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u97	Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to the situation surrounding Judge Skurtov. When colleagues in the hall make comments about the professional work of the judicial corps, it is understandable to all of us in the hall that the situation presented to Mr. Skurtov is not so plentiful. Because when they try to punish a judge at the local level who doesn't agree to do his professional duties with breaking the law and the kitchen, it starts with grass. In fact, what is being thrown at Mr. Skurtov here today is about his family members, not his own. How we can react. I ask you to vote and support this candidature. He's a normal, high-ranking, professional person. Please support this candidature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u98	Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u99	Once again, I stress that we have studied the case quite thoroughly with Judge Skurtov. And there is no reason for him not to be recommended. What's more, I'm stressing your attention to the next one. There are no judges here who, for some reason, question the members of the committee. And as you put it down here, when you talk about the judge, that the judge has some doubts, and we ask him to look at it separately, and on the committee: if any of the members of the committee have doubts, then we postpone, create a work committee, and then we look at it further. That's why I'm asking you to keep that in mind. According to Judge Skurtov, all the elements of the complaints filed against him were examined in detail, and we found no basis for rejecting his candidacy. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u100	Yes, I am voting for the election of Skurtov Mikhail Ivanovich to the local Ananov District Court of the Odessa District judge on an indefinite basis. Please vote. [[16:49:02]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Oudienko Vladimir Volodymyrovich, Dragon District Court of Kharkiv Region Who had any comments? Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u101	The distinguished Presidency, respected colleagues, well, not a case of case, I refer to my colleagues: for six months I have not been printed by the district newspaper and given or reviewed my statements. I went to the Zmejev Court, where, on the initiative and on the command of Borodin Mikhailovich, there was a team to condemn my decision, even though I have a conclusion from the Juracada that I am 100% right. Therefore, distinguished colleagues, I ask you to support that there be no more such things in any area and you have no precedents. The same thing I invite the head of the court, not the judge, but the head of the court of the Balakleev region of Sokolova to attend because many complaints by the electorate are not. That is why I am asking for your support, and yet I must punish the courts in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u102	Yes, Oudienko Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Your position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u103	The thing is, I didn't personally discuss the case, it was in the process of introducing another judge. So I can't give any detailed explanation for this case.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u104	Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u105	Your Honor, according to Judge Oudienko, there were no comments on the committee. It is also very positive in the workplace. He's got a pretty good number for ship errors. So that's something that doesn't go beyond the total area. And the committee is asking for support in view of these very circumstances.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u106	Vasil Onopenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u107	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, a reporter. I want to tell you what the fate of the judges is today. Some of them are simply being dealt with. I ask where the questions arise to remove these nominations today, so that the committee can verify these complaints and make further decisions. That we don't see where the trend is going. Someone's dissatisfied with something. That is the way a dissatisfied person is always on every occasion. So let's take down these problem candidates, work on the committee, and then we'll take another look here at the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u108	Do you understand the position of the committee? Will you support me? Okay. So let's make a second decision, Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u109	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u110	Please note, we have two more decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u111	Your opinion is proposed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in addition to what we have now considered regarding the appointment of judges of the local Drohobic City Court of Lviv, the district of Hamika Andrija Petrovic; the local Astrian City Court of Lviv Region of Mikitchin Igor Mihajlovich, Nikolain Volodymira Volodymyrovich, Paka Volodymira Mihajlovich, Sopkov Jaroslav Maryanović and Matolič Stepan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u112	Yeah, I can't see it. May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the selection of judges on an indefinite basis, this is number 3382-1. Please vote. [[16:53:29]] For 213 Grateful for fruitful work, let us make the next decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, it is proposed to take into account the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the temporary election of the judge of the Odessa County Economic Court of Sale of Valentin Alexandrovich. Odessa District, Local Economic Court, Prodajevich Valentin Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u114	I'm putting to the vote the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to elect a judge on an indefinite basis at 3382-2, this is the seller Valentin Alexanderovich, who is the judge of the Odessa district's local farm court, on an uninterrupted basis. Please vote. [[16:54:37]] For 228 Decision taken. Thank you. There's another one.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u115	Volodymyr Mihajlovich, a proposal came from the national deputies, particularly the agrarian faction, to vote on Skurtov Mikhail Ivanovich because not everyone was there and had the opportunity to vote. I'm asking you to support this proposal, because it's about a person's fate, and we've discussed it in detail. Skurtov Mikhailo Ivanovich is a judge of the Ananii District Court of Odessa.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u116	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u117	The MPs came up and said they didn't vote for technical reasons. I ask your support, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u118	Plitinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u119	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'm asking you very much to put to the vote a judge, a woman who went out, maybe I'm wrong to say her last name, Mrs. Shegenya. I'd like to put it to a vote. And one woman we didn't choose. I very much ask you all to support and vote for her.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u120	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this is about, I understand, Judge Ratuszný Victoria Alexandrovna, who was postponed on the basis of the committee's proposal. So, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, at the invitation of the People's Deputy, I ask that you vote to elect the judge of the Court of Appeal of the Herson District of the City of Victoria of Alexandria.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u121	Dear National Deputies! So that you can calm down and think, when you make proposals, let the committee sort it out, then we'll put it in and we'll vote. And then you have five minutes to change your perspective.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u122	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, requested by Lviv. Let's, really, then maybe we can re-vote everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u123	I suggest you, your honor, if you consider it necessary, where there is a committee position, you should vote. Then we vote all over, and we don't vote selectively, and then we have to think about what we're talking about, that's all. Is that agreement, or is it not? Please, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u124	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, including most, I appeal to you: let's take a picture of the judges' vote now, because you see and you know that there is no vote on the judges in the Supreme Council. You know that half the room doesn't have a clear vote right now because of the breach of political agreements. But what you're putting to the vote right now is breaking the fate of judges who have great experience. Take that question off, please, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The following question. What you're voting on is, you know, it's illegal and, by the way, I don't understand why the Standing Committee is still silent. The appeal that is appropriate to you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, is to take a break and the Regulatory Committee has been working on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, I'd like to say about the break. We'll have a break and you'll all be able to rest by May 13. And enough running, let's work. Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, please. Let's think about the people we talk about so much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u126	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to draw your attention once again to draft Decree 3382. 1 where it refers to the election of six judges to the Drogobic City Court in the Lviv district of St. Lvivské region, Truskavetsky. No court is open for two months. According to these judges, we had no objection in the hall. Why don't we vote for them? The judges stand. I understand that in those judges where there are claims, where there are proposals, there is a need to be taken care of. We didn't have any suggestions here. I'm asking you very much, let's make the courts work. Well, we have no objection to these candidates. It was a separate decision and it was made separately, we just didn't understand because of the noise in the hall. This is a separate ruling, six judges. So, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask for a separate ruling to be put to the vote by the Drogobic Court, the Stryssky, the Truscavetsky Lviv region, which stands for two months, does not work. And I'm asking you, dear colleagues, to understand the situation. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u127	Igor Ostasz.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u128	Igor Ostash, Our Ukraine, Reform and Order Party. I'd like to support the proposal of Deputy Onopenka, really to those courts there were no observations and really the courts for today are not working, and that's why our electorate is suffering. The request to put this order to the vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u129	Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u130	Vladimir Mikhailovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u131	School Andrew, Julia Timoshenko faction, UNA Vladimir Mikhailovich! Here we simply have to deal with one person or one individual proposal without violating the Supreme Council Rules. I'm going to suggest that we postpone and essentially resolve this issue. We destroy people's fates if we don't now vote for the same Lviv judges or Odessa. I'm just asking you, let's solve this conflict and move it, because right now this decision might not go away, and we don't have the right to vote twice for the judge. Under no circumstances. I don't want the judges to be the victims of our political squabbles, we'll deal with each other here. And I would ask, what we voted, voted on, and put everyone else to the next vote so that we can make a reasoned, correct decision and support, unload the work of the judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u132	I'm putting to the vote the motion for a committee to elect judges on an open-ended basis, this is number 3382-1, of which the committee chairman has just spoken, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u133	Please be supportive. One judge at a time, five to six people work in the courts. Dear colleagues! It's not. [[17:02:12]] For 223 Yes, dear fellows, there will be no more. Vote now. All right, judge question's off. All other questions that raise doubts, study and think later. All right, good fellows! I welcome the newly appointed judges on your behalf and on behalf of the Supreme Council. I wish you an honest and self-loyal service to your cause, and I apologize to the Supreme Council for the fact that other deputies have become hostages of political games. [[Applause]] That's it, thank you. Yes, let us move on to the subject. As we agreed on a consensus council, the draft law on the ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or the languages of national minorities is now being announced. Please, Hennady Hennadiovich Moskal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u134	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, MPs are asking for breaks.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u135	Dear colleagues, I read the Rules. It's written in the Rules, it can be useful. Let's look at this and take a break to 12 numbers. Please. Gennady Hennadyovich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u136	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, I am presenting for the second time in this room a draft Ukrainian law on ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minority, introduced by the President of Ukraine at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 7 February 2003. It was worked by a working group established by the Committee on European Integration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the involvement of officials of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the relevant ministries and authorities, who sought to develop a common approach to the ratification of the Charter, taking into account the proposals and observations made during the discussion at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ukraine's new draft law on the ratification of a charter of regional languages or minority languages, which recognizes 16 languages in regional or minority languages in accordance with the Charter, is, according to the alphabet, Belarusian, Bulgarian, Hague, idish, Karaim, Crimean Tatar, Crimean, Moldovan, Polish, Russian, Romanian, Romanian, Romanian, Slovak, Hungarian, Uruguayn. From the list of languages, Greek, German, which is studied abroad in educational institutions, Hebrew, which does not exist, has been replaced by the ancient language of the Jewish people, and Karaite, Crimean, Romani, Romani, and Urum languages have been added. Languages are defined as being at risk of extinction: Karaim, Crimean, Rumey, and Uruguayan. Third. Languages are in place. State support: Hague, Crimean Tatar and Roma. To Belarusian, Bulgarian, idish, Moldovan, Polish, Russian, Romanian, and Hungarian languages, the Charter applies the principle of the Charter, bearing in mind that Ukraine has the right to define other regional languages that are less widely used in its territory, to cancel restrictions or privileges on languages, and such measures are not considered an act of discrimination against those who survive the more common languages. I want to point out once again that the bill focuses on language, not national ethnic minorities. It does not aim to define the framework of national legislation and politics, but proposes measures aimed at maintaining, preserving and developing the historical languages of minorities in relation to national language. The ratification of the Charter has positive political and legal implications for our nation, will be a testimony to Ukraine’s consistent policy of protecting human rights, fulfilling international obligations, and will strengthen Ukraine’s international authority and its further integration into the world society. I believe that the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minorities deserves the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as one that meets the constitutional rules on the status of Ukrainian and the language of national minorities in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u137	Thank you, too. From the Zvaric Committee, Roman Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u138	Dear colleagues. Your opinion is proposed by the Law on the Ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages and Minorities. The question has already been discussed in the session room, and I do not remember the exact date. But I want to remind you that we've all come to a consolidated conclusion that this issue needs to be approached in a balanced way. Now, first of all, I would like to make a few comments on this issue. I draw your attention to the fact that this bill contains a norm that empowers the President to bring to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the ratification of the international treaty of the relevant bill. This rule is not subject to legislative initiative by any other subject in the legislative initiative. In other words, this is the exclusive prerogative of the President of Ukraine. But this bill also contains standards that are absolutely subject to legislative regulation. So virtually all parts of this bill, apart from the so-called ratification rule, are subject to legislative regulation. The problem before the committee is the following. How to put on the vote a bill containing these two completely incompatible standards. We came to the following conclusion that the bill should be put to the vote in general, not on the first or second reading. But instead, the norms that are subject to legislative regulation are also subject to the legislative initiative of any of the legislators. In this regard, we considered all the proposals that came to the committee, including proposals from other committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, primarily from the Committee on Science and Education. We've also considered essentially all the proposals that came to the faction committee. First of all, these were proposals by the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] And we've considered essentially all the proposals that came to the committee from individual Ukrainian national deputies. I would also like to remind you that at the initiative of the President of Ukraine, an inter-ministerial working group has been set up to finalize this bill. That is, in fact, whether by procedure the President has thus recognized the right of legislators besides him to amend the bill. So you have this option, this pattern of voting. We now put to the vote a draft bill that has been finalized on the basis of proposals, primarily by the inter-ministerial working group and by other legislators. Thus, we do not violate the constitutional procedure of the bill, since the ratification rules in the bill are not subject to the first and second readings, but we also guarantee the right to the legislative initiative of individual subjects of such a legislative initiative. So the committee's decision is to put to the vote a draft ratification of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages and Minorities, introduced by the President of Ukraine, in its working form, which was adopted by the working group. Now., which was accepted by the committee on the basis of work, both the working group and the proposals made by other legislators. Now essentially. If you've looked closely at this version that was distributed in the session room, you've noticed that we're thus spreading the list of languages that are protected under this charter. So instead of thirteen languages, as the President suggests, it is now proposed to spread the paper into seventeen languages. There are certain languages that the committee believes require the most protection, since they are already on the verge of extinction. Those languages are defined in a separate category in a bill that is being submitted to you. There is another category of languages, for example, Crimean catastrophe, which is not at risk of extinction, but which requires a certain incentive to recover. And there's a third category of languages that doesn't need, and neither is the first, nor is there a second protection regime. I can finish here, of course, and you won't understand what this is about. So let me finish my speech for one more minute. The questions, agree, are quite difficult. So we can, in fact, consolidate this hall, recognizing that there is a pretty large list of languages that are protected, but there are certain languages that require more protection. In order to complete my statement, I also want to draw your attention to part two of the third article of the Charter, which allows for the dissemination of part three of the paper where at least 35 points are defined in the language defined in the bill itself. We can always make changes to this bill. The committee proposes to put to the vote the Law on the Ratification of this International Agreement, introduced by the President of Ukraine, but in a version that will be dealt with by the Committee. And for the stenographer, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and his distinguished colleagues. I'm making that offer out of the voice. Since the proposal came from the Hard Ukraine faction to include in the list of languages that are subject to the protection of this charter, I'm putting in a voice proposal to include Armenian in this list. So it's going to be 18 languages that are protected by this charter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u139	Thank you. Sit down, Roman Mikhailovich. Dear people's deputies, please, Mikola Alexanderovich Schulga. You get ready and we'll vote now for the result. I'll be right with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u140	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Our faction warned of the project that the President had put in place. And I'm talking to most of them here. Notice that differences are not as big here. What are we talking about? What warnings do we give? A warning of such a nature. If it's suggested, for example, in education, to predict the application of one of the measures, and it doesn't say which of the measures, we're going to propose the first item: to predict the possibility of providing, for example, preschool education in appropriate regional languages, also in secondary education, in higher education, that is, the first item that clearly determines what we're proposing. Please, take a close look at this and support this warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u141	Chubarov's reaction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u142	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! According to the current legislation of Ukraine, the subject for ratification of documents in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is only one official, the President. The president has made his choice, and we may not agree with him. Let's say I have a claim to him, too, but we're now offered a choice that we haven't had before. That is, the choice that the President has presented on the committee, and that is how I don't understand which choice will now be voted on and who will be the subject of the choice that will be put to the vote. I'd like an answer. Is this the President, or have you agreed to change with the President?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u143	I'm next time, you listen very carefully, please, because I can't explain this question any more than I can do in the form in which the Constitution allows me. The subject of the legislative initiative under this category of international agreements, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, is exclusively the Head of State. The rule of law that applies to these constitutional powers is not subject to change is not subject to legislative initiative by any other subject in the legislative initiative. This is the rule that we keep behind the President, but instead, the other rules of the bill are not of a ratification nature, so they do not follow the President's lines of constitutional authority along the lines of the introduction of ratification bills. These standards are subject to legislative regulation. Therefore, the committee has actually come to the conclusion to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine vote in favour of a bill drafted by a committee, but it is formally the President's initiative. We have finalized the President's bill in that part that is subject to the legislative initiative, and in that part that is untouchable at the point of the presidential mandate on the line of implementation of the ratification bill, we do not touch it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u144	Thank you. Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk. The card's not inserted correctly, Boris Ivanovich, you have it. Oh, she's got the wrong fit. Well, as long as you're there technically, National Deputy Haydosh, faction of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u145	Istvan Geidosh, District 72, faction of SDPU. Dear Chief, honourable colleagues, in spite of the suggestions I have previously made, have yet again to note not some of the principled positions that have unfortunately not been taken into account in the drafting of the bill, namely: I believe that it will be a grave mistake to apply protection regimes only to languages that are at risk of extinction. If we don't provide adequate guarantees for other languages that are traditionally used in Ukraine, they may be dead in the territory of our country. To justify the fact that these languages are official in other countries, I think, is an expression of disrespect for the national cultural heritage of the large part of Ukrainian citizens who bear them. I would like to stress that the above is entirely consistent with the conclusion of scientific and scientific management. For us, the main criterion must be the quality of the document, not the duration of the ratification. So I think it would be a gross mistake to ratify the document in the working group. I propose to support the Presidential Initiative, taking into account these arguments as differentiated.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u146	Thank you. Turn off the microphone. Please, Tarasyuk. And then you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u147	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, considering that making a decision on this issue will have an international impact, and considering that the situation in the session room is hampering the decision-making process, I would like to make an offer to postpone the decision on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u148	Yes, please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u149	Yes, as for the representative of the faction of the social-democratic party of Ukraine, I am responsible for my words, and I repeat once again what I have been told before. The committee was formally offered one proposal from the faction of the SDPU. It applied to the definition of a rule that does not allow ratification of this charter to narrow down the existing regime that is now operating in Ukraine according to other laws of Ukraine. We're almost there. In the same wording, without changing a single word, this rule was introduced into a bill that was further elaborated by the working group. There was no such proposal from the faction to approve the president's proposal. As for the president's version. If we were to follow this line, we would not be able to carry out the charter itself because there are no proper budget allocations for this year. So it's a much more flexible option. Once again, I draw your attention to the fact that the charter allows for the expansion of the 35-point regime. Any future legislative initiative can do that, but within the existing budget, we can't do the same kind of paper as it's done. But I also draw your attention to the fact that, according to the Charter, our state should report to the Council of Europe within one year of its ratification. We will not have anything to come to the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u150	Thank you. Boris Ilchi Oliynik. Then the President's Road Representative and we will be determined by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u151	Thank you Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I want to support Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, who feels the audience's mood to remove this issue from today's consideration, because if it is voted out of the way that we are expected in the Council of Europe, it is only to our detriment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u152	Thank you. Please, Alexander the Road. Dear colleagues, while Alexander the Road goes, I want to say that on May 12, 13, we have a monitoring committee meeting in Kiev, and we have to have some results. Let us, then, act in harmony with our obligations to the Council of Europe. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u153	Dear colleagues, let me point out that Bill 0056 was already under consideration by Parliament on February 7, 2003. However, I did not find the support of Ukraine’s national deputies for such basic reasons. First. The bill is overloaded by an excessive amount of commitment for a State that will result in the impossibility of practical execution. It is estimated that the budget expenditure per year will be about 1 billion dollars. The other one. The bill did not take into account one of the basic requirements of the Charter, according to which the protection and learning of minority languages should not prevent the learning of the official State language. And the third. In drafting the bill, it is not taken into account that the object of paper protection and protection is primarily those threatened with extinction. As a result, a working group was formed from representatives of the President's administration, the national deputies, and the authorities directly involved. As a result, the working group, together with the committee, formulated a version that was offered by the distinguished first deputy head of the committee. The results of the working group were informed by the President, who, on the basis of the situation that had arisen, stressed at the last meeting with the faction leaders, which could be supported by an agreed option, understanding that procedural issues remained that the distinguished first deputy chairman of the committee had stopped, I would ask the chairman to put to the vote a choice of the working group and then option 056.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u154	First the task force, then the president's? Dear colleagues, the proposal made by the President of Ukraine is clear enough that the President does not object to putting to the vote a document worked by the working group. And if it's not accepted, then consider the President's project in the second sequence. Please, Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u155	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Very strange things happen in this room. Please tell me, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I understand that the monitoring committee will be here in May, and I understand that the head wants to report. But this is not the reason for us to ignore such painful and up - to - date interests of people living in Ukraine. That's the first one. It's different. How can we vote the one that the working group worked on if it wasn't discussed here? The President’s choice, which he is refusing today, was discussed. So if you make a choice for a working group, it's going to be a gross violation of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u156	Please, Roman Mikhailovich, and then I will answer my questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u157	I'm trying to explain the complexity of this situation one more time. It seems to me that by procedure I am quite clear and try to use only the language that gives me the right to use the Constitution of Ukraine. That's why I can't say otherwise. As to the substance of the questions raised by Rephat Chubarov, of course we need to make a decision on this matter. But it doesn't have to be final, because if our state's budgetary capabilities allow us to extend the regime that this charter allows, we can do it at any time in the future. That is why such a procedure is proposed so that the decision is not final, but that we still follow the constitutional ratification procedure so that our decision is not considered before the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u158	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I want to say that I live only by the thoughts of the Supreme Council and I am guided by what the Supreme Council decides what decisions it makes. I don't have a personal position. I'm not going to report to anyone but you, dear colleagues. Therefore, in line with the discussions and the proposals that have been made, I am voting on the approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or the Minority Code No. 0056, i.e. a coherent project which has been jointly undertaken by the Administration and the Committee, i.e. the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u159	The committee's asking for support. [[17:29:44]] For 190
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u160	Dear National Deputies! 190, no decision taken. Now I'm going to put the second bill to the vote. The factions, please. Dear colleagues! So we can keep the law and regulations clean so I don't get blamed. It's a purely presidential project. Can I have your attention, please? I'll put it to a vote. It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. I am voting for the approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minority No. 0056 - Presidential Bill. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u161	It's a committee against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m1.u162	Then we had to vote yes. Please vote. [[17:30:52]] For 211 The decision is not taken. Honorable National Deputies, in connection with Jehovah’s Witnesses. No, we have the right to vote, but we don't have the right to legislate, and you know it. No, the honourable colleagues, the subjects of the legislative initiative on this issue are only the President, all the copyright laws can't be considered. Working group, this is the President's representative saying the President has agreed. Yes, please. There is no decision, however, if there is a decision, respected colleagues. In view of the faction’s call for recess, I announce the closing of the evening meeting of the Supreme Council. The next plenary session will be held according to the schedule of plenary meetings. Thank you for your fruitful work with a negative result.
