ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:57]] Registered -385 There are 385 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies Kalichenko Igor Viktorovich and Tajnibok Oleg Jaroslavovich. Let us join them in welcoming them, wishing them success in their work and in their health. Dear colleagues, we have 30 minutes to announce requests, statements, messages, information on behalf of Ukraine's own national deputies. I'm asking the National MPs to sign up for statements, messages, information, suggestions. In the meantime, in accordance with the new procedure, I will announce written requests to the addressees so that they can be sent to the addressees. Is there no objection? A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Andrija School to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for compensation by the Russian Federation for the financing costs of a project to protect against cleaning up Tuzla Island and damage to Ukraine as a result of the construction of a dam in the Kerchen Strait. John Stoyk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the grounds of dissatisfaction with the reply to a parliamentary request regarding the violation of Ukrainian legislation by the Ambassador of the Russian Federation of Black Seamen. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of gasification of villages in the region. Groups of National Deputies - Kravczuk, Evdokimimov, King of the Eleven People’s Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the offer of withdrawal, a warning to drivers of transport. Viacheslav Dubicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine for compensation payments to citizens for savings until 1992. National Deputies Groups: Razwadowski, Coloniari, only seven national deputies - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to execute a decision by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding members of the College of National Deputies of the Ukrainian People's Deputies. Anatolia Orzhachowski, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, on financial support for the construction of socio-cultural sites for the settlements of the Herson region of the Holocaust. Vladimir Onichuka, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitr Tobacco, explained some of the provisions of Ukrainian legislation in the part of the introduction of pensions for special merit before Ukraine. Lilia Grigorovich and Yuri Klukkowski - under the responsibilities of the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the re-illegal decision of the session of the Somali City Council on the privatization of the entire property complex from the production of heat and electricity from the Suma company of heat networks. Jury Karmazin, acting as Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification of the threat and physical misconduct against the head of the Lviv District Office of the Party of Protectors of Ukraine, is the chief consultant of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fight against organized crime and corruption of Barnatsky for political action by the Chief of the Chief of Analysis, Deputy Chief of the Administration of the President of Ukraine. Valentina Seminyuk to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine on improper study and incomplete investigation of the state property situation by officials of the state-owned enterprise "The Regional State Company for the Restructuring of Coal and Torfian Enterprises". Vladimir Onischuk to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the Head of Education of Ananiyev District State Administration of the Odessa Region. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the facts of the inaction of employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Babushkin district of Dnipropetrovska, when the Ukrainian National Deputy addressed them regarding violations of legislation. Vladimir Yavorowski, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the basis of an open formal letter to the MP regarding the inaction of the Ministry of Interior in the Lviv region, the fight against the smuggling of food and other goods that undermine the state's economic situation. Jury Solomatin to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine on the publication of the press on bankruptcy of the fuel and energy complex of Ukraine. Vladimir Onischuk, head of the Coordinating Committee on Combating Corruption and Organized Crime with the President of Ukraine, on the abuse of office, on the excess of authority by officials of the Odessa District Attorney's Office of the Kyiv District Department of Internal Affairs and the Kyiv District Court of Odessa. Vladimir Puzakov, head of the Coordinating Committee on Combating Corruption and Organized Crime with the President of Ukraine, for the delay in investigating the disappearance of a missing citizen in the city of Kyrovgrad. Basil Redoni, head of the Coordinating Committee to Combat Organized Crime with the President of Ukraine, Head of the State Tax Administration, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, acting as Prosecutor General of Ukraine for Crimes committed by officials of the General Directorate of the Department of the Armed Forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Tax Police of Ukraine and the Attorney General for the involvement of the local Sudanese law enforcement authorities on the border of Ukraine with Russia, as well as in the territory of the Russian Federation and Ukraine. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the examination of the facts of negligence in her official duties as employees of the State Automobile Inspection of the city of Bila Church, which led to a car accident. Vladimir Yavorowski to the head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service for dissatisfaction with the reply to a parliamentary request to combat the smuggling of food through the West Regional Customs crossings. Jury Solomatin to the head of the National Atomic Energy Company Energoat for claims of bankruptcy by the National Atomic Energy Company Energoat. Sergey Slabenka to the head of the Volin district government regarding the gasification of a town-type village called Ustilug and the city of Luboml. Vladimir Yavorowski to the head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television, Radio and Radio and Radio Rock, which broadcasts live broadcasts of the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Vladimir Puzakov to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights Minister of Emergency Affairs and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster regarding the return of the invalidity of the second group as a participant in the elimination of the consequences of the CHAES accident. Vasil Redvoni, Alexiyuk, Powlovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the lack of State support for the seven years of the inflammable season in the village of Powzke Kirovograd. John Mihowich, Valery Mishura to the Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine, a parliamentary request in connection with the harsh involvement of the Zakartat District Administration in the creative activities of a district television broadcaster for the purpose of falsifying the trend and unobjective reporting of the situation in Mukachev and the region. Sergey Slabenka to the Head of the Wallin County Administration for breaking down Volinsky's administration of measures to implement targeted programs. Mikoli Melnik to Prime Minister Janukovic on the clarification of the order of the extension by October 2004 of the loan taken by the companies for the holding of spring-field jobs in 2003. Mikhail Radionova, National Deputy of Onishuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the Ministry of Economics regarding the property of the state-owned enterprise Odessa-Foreign. Mikli Tomenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Ukraine’s first Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Vinokurov, for investigating the use of fascist symbolism and the inflammation of national hostility in the Donetsk region. I've announced all the parliamentary requests. As you know, voting on them is unnecessary according to a new explanation of the Constitutional Court. Dear colleagues, let's move on to speeches, statements, messages from the national MPs. Please indicate on the table the name of the national deputies who signed up for the performance. Stepan Bogdanovich Gavrish is a Deputy Group of Democratic Initiatives. Prepare Vitalia Shipk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u2	Thank you, Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! As always, when we make serious conclusions in politics, we say that we are living in an appropriate historical time. Yes, it is. Today, Ukraine is in the midst of two eras of its development. In the first era, as we passed from the Soviet Union with a special closed system of ideology, practically completed in its transitional phase, a new era had not yet come, and the exacerbation of our internal conflict within the Ukrainian political elite reached its limit. I want to ask all of us about the responsibility of the political elite for the Ukrainian nation, for the Ukrainian statehood, for its progressive future European development. I think it's a major issue because, as recent events have shown, and first in the Ukrainian Parliament, we have a conflict that is artificially provoked, first, by the ideology of individual political teams and their leaders, which is actually in the interest of civil society, which is interested in a stable development situation. I think we also have to understand that the cruising of the Ukrainian stateship and independence is all about our hands, the hands of the people of those, first of all, are here, in the session room, which today came into an active political struggle in the race for the presidential chair. And we need to be very careful about everything that's going on in order to preserve the evolution that we've been protecting for 12 years, which has shown that Ukraine, as a nation, after seven centuries of destruction of all Ukrainian, has finally taken place. So today, when we block the work of the Supreme Council, the continuation of the opposition in the session hall, we declare that Ukrainian society is not trying to find the key to future Ukrainian progress, to change the system of power that is going to ensure equal access for citizens to public institutions, to services, to create a civil service institution, we can go into a deadlock today and instead get a civil society split. The initiation of political scandals in various regions of Ukraine can lead to internal mental conflict. And there is another problem that requires an extremely serious internal self-assessment of our response. This problem is that we are increasingly trying to resolve our own issues, not at the expense of an internal political debate, but by turning to the outside world. And now we can have a situation where the election of the President of Ukraine will be conducted by diplomats. The electoral company of diplomats can lead to the fact that the next Ukrainian authority will never be independent. I want to ask all of us to set up a parliamentary interfractional commission that could work out a model of our position during the election race for the President's chair. Realizing that everything will depend on whether we will carry out constitutional reform and remove the tension associated with this special, extremely complex and responsible chair of Ukrainian power, the President’s chair. Or we'll continue to compete for the power we had yesterday. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u3	Yes, the national deputy of Nikolainko will be speaking in place of the national deputy of Shibka Vitalia, please! And then six minutes for yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I didn't want to talk about it, but a very distinguished national deputy colleague Gavrish has just made an assessment in view of most of the situation that has arisen in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'd like to say on behalf of the Socialist Party that we have a slightly different view of these events. Because we think there's a rough provocation on the side, not the majority, but on the side, let's say, Bank Street, which today wants to destabilize the situation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We could boldly, as we did, I'm addressing all the deputies. We could have listened boldly to the reports of the rapists and been working completely this week, because in the history of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it was constantly so that the rapists were reported, and this is about the 30th or 40th case. And then on the 40th, we started looking for other motives. And today I don't understand why we've put this whole thing together, as they say, politically incomprehensible. But I didn't come out here today for that. It's the 86th anniversary of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution. I think it's really a holiday and it's an international event. And today, first of all, I welcome all those who celebrate this festival, those who recognize the worldwide significance of this event. And I think that in the big anniversary, there's a lot of positive things about this holiday, and there's a lot of social protection, and there's a lot of respect for people who work, and there's a lot of respect for the power to respect their people. I think the conclusions have been made not only in the Soviet Union, but also in the entire world. So once again I welcome all Ukrainian citizens with a holiday. Those who don't honor this festival, those who don't celebrate it, I'd like to ask them to do some lessons. Humans today should not or should not be led to such a humiliating state, for human patience can always come to an end. What's happening today in Ukraine is evidence that those oligarchic-clan structures that are actually operating in Ukraine today have not drawn the right conclusions from the lessons of the Yellow. And that's why what we see today in the agrarian sector and in the industry, when two thirds of people are outside of poverty, is evidence that some have taught very badly the history of the Great Yellow. People should not be bullied; the situation in Ukraine should be changed. And so the Socialist Party of Ukraine consistently advocates the idea of changing the political system for the benefit of people so that people can live better. On behalf of the faction, I would like to say a few more words today about how socialists feel about the future of our Ukraine, about the problems of science and education. Our faction carried out a detailed analysis of the draft State Budget Act 2004. A number of meetings were held, discussions with groups of educational institutions, parents, students, teachers, scientists. The public, trade unions, government officials of all levels have expressed deep concern about the state of crisis and the lack of prospects for financing education and science, ignoring the relevant legislation of Ukraine. The worst thing about the fact that the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine today is that the existing legislative framework in the Budget Act is being ignored. It is good that the Budget Committee has reversed attempts by the government to stop a whole series of articles. But that is not all. A particular concern of socialists is the meager amount of pay paid by educators and scientists, the lack of heat in the premises, the difference in school eating, the fact that many students today simply cannot support themselves. In the proposals for the 2004 budget project, our faction defined the minimum necessary funding for education and science, even indicating the sources of these costs. As head of the Committee on Science and Education, I will say that the members of the Committee on Science and Education have prepared for the government and the Committee on Budget specific proposals for improving education. Yes, in the 2004 State Budget, the actual expenditure on education and science remained virtually unchanged against last year. And the total fund is only 4.5 percent and 0.33 percent of the domestic gross product. And this is because the law requires practically 10 percent of the education sector to be spent on national income and 1.7 of the internal gross product on science. The meager wages, I repeat, hunger, the elimination of school and school nutrition, vocational schools, universities, the degradation of science will lead to the destruction of the intellectual potential of our state, the innovative path of the state. In this regard, I also urge our faction to give priority to the 2004 budget in the field of science and education. First. It is necessary to bring the expenditure of the general fund of the education budget to 8 percent of national income and 1.7 percent of GDP on science, as provided for by valid legislation. We insist on the unconditional re-establishment from January 1st to January 1st to the staff of the budgetary institutions; otherwise, when we move to 237 dollars, education and science workers will have nothing. The other one. We demand to prevent real financial resources from falling into education and science. It is necessary to provide for the payment of municipal services to rural educators and to rural intelligence. We also demand an increase in funding for fundamental science and for all our academics. Without that, there will be no future of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u5	Mikola Shershun, Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dept. Prepare Peter Zybenko. I'm reminding you that Stanislaw Nikolaynko used Vitaly Šibka's time and his time, so he played for six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u6	Please give the floor to Deputy Kalinchuk Vasil Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u7	Vassil Kalinchuk, please. Prepare Peter Stepanovich Zibank.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u8	Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, allow me to announce the statement of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party's deputy faction. We refer to members of the government, to the national MPs. The government's Day passions for vocational and technical education have not yet been met, and the faction's address is once again being addressed by educational professionals, professionals, collectives of educational institutions from all regions of the state. They have the human cry of the soul and the cry of salvation. It is no longer a matter of support or assistance. The branch was on the verge of physical destruction. Judge for yourself. Today, most of the factories are not on fire; in some cases, they are completely shut off from water supply and electricity. Limitations allocated to utilities do not meet accounting standards and make up, at best, a third of the need. The disciplining condition of the disciples is of great concern. According to sanitary requirements, the monetary cost of food should be at least 10 or 12 dollars per day. And actually, it's only three and a half bracelets now. Equally painful for the industry is the lack of funds to finance capital repairs of premises and other immovable property. For example, in the Zaporozhye region in the current year 2003, only $150,000 was budgeted for these needs. Today, only 48 thousand grand have been funded. A similar situation is observed in Odessa and elsewhere, as the voters report in their letters. Of course, much of the above problems could be overcome the following year, with the corresponding expenditure foreseen in the 2004 State Budget. Yet, contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, it is proposed in this area to stop the operation of a number of laws, other social norms, for the year 2004. In view of the critical situation in this area, the National Deputies, members of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party, are proposing to the Cabinet of Ministers, in the first order of priority, to take urgent measures to pay off the debts of occupational health institutions over the past years, to increase the nutritional standards of orphans and students from low-income families, and to ensure that all students are fed, to ensure the wage of teachers at the level of average wages in the industry, to allocate funds for the development of the material and technical base of educational institutions, to finance the capital repair of immovable property. The faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party cannot allow standards of social character, guarantees and legal rights of education, science, students, students and students to be stopped when the country's state budget is adopted. The 2004 budget should include expenditure on funding for education in the ranges foreseen by the Ukrainian Education Act, including the costs of implementing legislative provisions on wage levels, pedagogical workload, housing and housing guarantees for teachers. And we, the People's Deputies of the Agrarian Party, demand it from the government and the budget committee. Please consider this application as a parliamentary request. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u9	Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists. Prepare Grosjevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u10	Peter Cibenko, Communist faction, Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Secretary of the Central Committee of the Company of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Today, on November 7, the eighty - sixth anniversary of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution of the notable event in human history is being fulfilled. There is hardly another date in the history of the planet that would play such a decisive role in its history. This event has become to a large extent a turning point for all the nations of the globe, not only for those who have chosen a socialist course of development, although for them, of course, primarily, but also for mankind as a whole. Whoever does not view this event, this date is the page of our biography, this page of our history, and even with that in mind, we are obliged to respect it. On behalf of the faction of Communists, on behalf of the presidency of the Central Committee of the Company of Ukraine on behalf of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, I sincerely welcome everyone to whom this event is the celebration of the 86th anniversary of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution. Happiness, health, well - being, and all kinds of good things are well with you and your close friends and acquaintances. And to those who today view this holiday differently, I would like to remind them that they have made full use of the results of the great October, receiving free education, free medical care, confidence in tomorrow, all kinds of titles, degrees, rewards, and office. And so I would like to tell the citizens of Ukraine that for the faction of Communists, as for most Ukrainian citizens, this celebration will remain an event and a holiday forever. And to those colleagues who are today from the Supreme Council's rostrum who claim that someone is preventing them from working, I'd like to say that. There is a compromise proposal by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, vote for it and work on it. But the problem is different. They weren't dressed in this room, they weren't dressed in opposition, they were dressed in chains on the street. Bank's is the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u11	Ivan Sidorovich Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, has the word given to him by his colleague Grzezhev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u12	Dear colleagues and voters. Here's one of the deputies who's told the world these days that without him, the President of Ukraine will not be elected. Suddenly, the room was scattered over the presidential chair and accused the opposition of blocking the work of the Supreme Council in the struggle for this chair. But the truth is, nobody in this room today is fighting for the President's chair, there's no new Brodsky in the hall, and let it stand still, no one is attacking him or sitting down. In any case, we socialists can say that for sure. The opposition is not fighting for a chair, but for Ukraine’s rules not to be ganged, and these events in Donetsk have shown all too obvious. The electorate should know that the work of the Supreme Council is blocked by President Kuchma's team, which manipulates the majority and dictates its will. And you don't have to lie about it. Most are responsible for halting the legal process. And when you're deceived by what's blocking her opposition, it's because the regime is afraid to lose the president's chair. And you will continue to be deceived. And the press, which carries the word of truth, is already closing their mouths today. The bank has put down a team to stop anything and prohibit the subscription of Ukraine's most massive newspaper, "Village News". From Cherkaszczina, Poltavščina and others, and in fact all the areas, there are signals that the post doesn't want to subscribe to the village news to the villagers and to the townspeople, and the mailmen have been given a command to replace the already prepaid newspaper with other editions. So in another form, there is a repetition of the savagery of 200 years, when, three weeks after the Kuchma team, the release of "The Village News" was stopped, and only because of the interference of the international public and the protest, including the Supreme Council, that savagery was abolished. I don't think this regime is gonna make us beautiful or beautiful, but it's clear that any conspiracies here won't help, it's about the fact that the bandit regime is going down to the lowest methods of fighting opposition. He shuts down, in fact, his mouth is not opposition, he stops the people, but the people will not remain silent. And I think people in places understand what's going on in the state and where we're going. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u13	Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine" faction. Next, instead of Karnauchus, Michael Pavlovsky will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, it's bad when diplomats elect the President of Ukraine, but even worse, when the President of Ukraine, with the consent of most of the Supreme Council, is appointed by the President's Administration. So Victor Yushchenka's block of "Our Ukraine" is now launching a nationwide action called "Ukraine of the People's President!"".. The action is intended to guarantee citizens' rights to be elected by direct and general secret elections. This is the fundamental historical right of the people for whom they fought in this country and we must do our utmost to preserve this right. As of today, a convention of signatures has begun throughout the country, and we are convinced that our internal police, law enforcement agencies will do their utmost to ensure the constitutional right of Ukrainian citizens to peaceful assembly, to express their political opinion and to think that history with Donetsk in other regions will not be repeated. And Ukrainian citizens will have the opportunity to place their signatures in total peace and confidence and say that they do not want this right taken away from them. You know, according to sociological research, so far 85-90 percent of citizens are definitely against Parliament choosing a president, considering this to be their inalienable right. In this regard, I wanted to say that the faction "Our Ukraine" is concerned that Ukraine is continuing a series of actions that confirm our doubts and doubts of Ukrainian citizens that the election of the President in Ukraine may take place through unfair, non-democratic forged actions. In this regard, we have proposed and registered a corresponding Supreme Council decision and will appeal to the President of Ukraine to remove these warnings that the Presidential Administration, together with the Central Electoral Commission, is preparing mass forgeries of the presidential elections, to form a Central Election Commission in the manner envisaged in all civilized countries, and to ensure the right of opposition factions to delegate members of the Central Electoral Commission, even though seven members of the Central Electoral Commission from factions of the majority and five from the opposition factions. This will allow us to remove the issue of what forgeries are possible and also to ensure and guarantee our citizens confidence that the presidential elections of October 31, 2004 are not going to be postponed and no one is going to forge. We are confident that the presidential elections, as provided for in the Constitution, will be direct and will take place within the terms provided for in the Constitution. In these elections, citizens will have the right to vote freely and democratically. And Victor Yushchenk's action on the Ukrainian People's President will allow for the preservation of this right of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u15	Michael Pavlovsky instead of the national deputy Karnauha takes the floor. Prepare Kendzior instead of Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u16	Pavlovski, the faction of the block of Julia Timoshenko, Hmělničina Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished our voters! On behalf of the faction today, I want to talk about problems that concern the entire Ukrainian people and that don't concern our oligarchs. The question is how to raise the price of bread, and the bread behind it is going to raise all the food, so obviously go to the market. So in general, and given the price rise in utilities, the standard of living of our population will immediately fall by 30 to 40 percent. And what the government says is that there are no social protection mechanisms in the budget. And so, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask, our faction insists that immediately put into the Hall for discussion the Economic Policy Committee's law of amending and supplementing prices and pricing, the law of Yulia Timoshenko and Moroz on a moratorium on the prohibition of pay raises for utilities until the minimum wage is raised to a minimum of living. But what I'd like to say is that the cost of living at least 360 dollars today is no longer in line with the realities that are in the calculation basket. Because if prices go up by 40 percent, that's how much it takes to automatically increase this minimum of living. He's already 500 bucks today. So even if this is not accurate, the minimum wage is to be raised to an incorrect calculation minimum. Where can I get the money? He's setting up the government. I have a question. Why not take advantage of the two remaining billions of dollars that are in the National Bank and that it wants to give something up in time as a percentage of the International Monetary Fund. No one's asking. Instead of putting these two billion dollars into scientific technology, there's going to be a return. At the level of 10 to 20 billion dollars to the budget. All the social problems are solved, the minimum wage can even be made more than a calculation basket. But there's one thing. strategy, we need to worry about the people, about their living conditions and prospects, and not think about how to meet the needs, the whims of criminal oligarchs. So our task today is to defend national interests, and we need to immediately support, once again, the Timoshenko and Frost bill on the moratorium on municipal services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u17	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Stepan Bulby instead of the national MP Tsushko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u18	Dear Head, distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies. From this rostrum today, several greetings were made on the occasion of the so - called festival of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution, or, more precisely, the Bolshevik coup in Petrograd. I want to bow my head to those millions of victims that were made possible by the already known Bolshevik coup in 1917. And today it is a great festivities to talk about some great benefits and so on, when everyone seems to know about those millions of destroyed -- and the means of famine, and the means of Siberia -- millions of Ukrainian compatriots. And perhaps there is no other nation in the world that would have suffered such tremendous sacrifices in the history of the Communist regime. But it is not just us Ukrainians who should grieve to bow their heads to the victims of the totalitarian Communist regime. Remember, dear friends, take a look at all the continents where there was an attempt to adopt regimes like the Communist Russian regime: this is Latin America, this is Asia, this is Europe. All of this was accompanied by mass destruction, by the shootings of millions of people on these continents. And today, when we talk about modern Ukraine, about the 12 years of independence of the Ukrainian State, we can also note with regret that, because of certain historical social transformations, the former party state nomenclature, which has been in control of Ukraine for 12 years, transforming into a criminal regime, is also gaining the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian state. In particular, one of those very bright ones, from my point of view, is this constant change of the Attorney-General. It would be worth it, no one adores or idealizes Attorney General Piscoon, but look, just now, there's information that the Attorney General's Office has come out specifically to solve the Gongadze case, it's worth Mr. Piscoun's encounter with the faction of "Our Ukraine" to say that Odessa's smuggling sugar-sort needs to open up a criminal case against Gregory Surkis, which is where the President's appropriate actions to move the Attorney General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u19	Thank you. Stephen Bulba has the word, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u20	Dear Head, colleagues, reverent radio listeners! Daily, letters from veterans, pensioners of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, come to the address of the faction of the Socialist Party. Their authors raise social protection problems for military personnel. That is, why have soldiers who have been released into reserve for years been forced to wait for payment of legal aid and compensation? On what basis are the pensioners and their families deprived of the benefits provided by the laws on municipal services and medical care? Why is it that when calculating pensions, there is no allowance for the title, other allowances? Why is there no solution to the housing problem? Finally, the special indignation of military and former military officials of today’s retirees has generated a pension imbalance in recent years, depending on the terms of release from the Armed Forces. With such questions, pensioners address the Supreme Council, the President as the guarantor of the Constitution. Thus, the veterans of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, thanks to Presidential decrees, created this imbalance and, in fact, discriminated against the pension security of military personnel. Thus, by decree of 14 July 1999, 40 percent of the allowances were introduced, which led to higher pensions, but only for those who had been released since September 1999. Another decree of February 23, 2002, introduced a percentage supplement, but only for those who had been released from the reserve since 2003. That's why the colonel, the commander of the regiment after 32 years of service was released to the reserve by September 1999, is now receiving a pension less than the centurion-major of the company that was released in 2003. And this is because the Supreme Council has passed legislation to eliminate these imbalances. But the problem still remains. The answer is, there's not enough money. That's what's gonna happen until we change the system of government. It will be until the authorities become politically responsible. The FRA supports the National Security and Defence Committee's proposal to hold the Government's Day in the near future, which will examine the state of social protection of former military personnel. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time is running out and I'm asking the secretariat to prepare appropriate instructions to the relevant authorities. Dear colleagues, let us turn to the issue of granting consent to the appointment of Hennady Vasiliev as Attorney General of Ukraine. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 25, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to grant approval for the appointment of the President of Ukraine to the post of Attorney General of Ukraine. On 3 November of this year, the President of Ukraine nominated Hennadia Vasiliev to give consent to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for his post as Attorney General of Ukraine. The relevant materials are given to you. The Committee on Law Enforcement took up this issue and considered it possible to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support this submission and agree to the appointment of Hennady Vasiliev as Attorney General of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Then it would be possible to arrange a discussion of the matter if you did not object. Give the floor to Gennady Andriyovich in 10 minutes, within 10 minutes, to answer the questions, to devote the rest of the time to the performances. There's no objection. Please, Hennady Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! On the one hand, it's easier for me than for the predecessors to report from this high rostrum on the issues discussed, on Parliament's consent to be appointed Attorney General of Ukraine. Simply because you and I know each other well, many of us work in the Supreme not for the first time. At the same time, my position is even more complex, based on increased mutual responsibility and on well - known principled differences in views of the activities of prosecutors. But the most complex issue with the appointment of the Attorney General is, in my opinion, another -- in an over-politicized situation before the presidential election. Yes, the prosecutor’s office has always been and remains in the hands of politicians as a leading law enforcement agency. Sadly, though, many want to see it, not as a legal one, but as a repressive, punishing body, trying to direct the marked decrease in the functions and powers of the prosecutor’s office. I find this to be a mistake. Of course, it is very important to know what functions an authority, such as the prosecutor’s office, performs. However, more importantly, it is different. Like, for the sake of who she's doing it. If the coordinating efforts of law enforcement agencies in the fight against crime, in investigating and investigating cases in courts, in overseeing the execution of sentences and in keeping with laws, the prosecutor promotes constitutional protection of human rights, freedoms and legitimate interests, and the perpetrators of such rights are called upon to be legally responsible, he is taking steps to redress the damage suffered. That's what I think it is. A approach, not a waste or more, harmful to society. I'm pretty sure there's no one in this room who says no. And that's why we need to work out a system of law enforcement mechanisms. The field of effort here is too large. It is important to set priorities. I'll stop at some for a while. First. Measures have to do with improving the state’s criminogenic situation. It is not a secret that it remains extremely tense. Total crime increased to nearly 400,000 in nine months this year. The level of serious crime that increases each year is a source of great concern. In general, they make up 46 percent. So almost every other crime is serious. Crimes against a person and, above all, deliberate killings need special attention. 70 percent on domestic soil. Unless there is some concern about the rise in ricidal crime. And the total number of people who committed crimes is one third of those who did it again. I find that prevention mechanisms are clearly insufficiently involved in these issues. Administrative and legal influences are also inadequate. In many cases this is the result of the inaction and irresponsibility of law enforcement officials. So in each case, I think we should make an assessment. The problem of organized crime should also be given attention. I don't understand, for example, why has her discussion and evaluation been moving from a professional to a household level, to a level of, excuse me, a housewife lately? I cannot accept that there are no organized criminal groups in particular areas of law enforcement. So why are there special forces? What functions do they perform? What do they do? It takes deep professional development to transform criminally organized crime into economic-trafficking, the illicit manufacture of excise goods, the legalization of criminal funds, the leading of businesses to bankruptcy, illegal transactions in the financial and banking system. Are these not modern - day manifestations of organized crime? Why is the drug business, which is estimated at over one billion dollars a year, out of the special divisions? In this regard, not only approaches but also those who do not know what to do and how to do them should be changed. I believe that the efforts of the prosecutor's office to ensure the unconditional implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the organizational and legal basis of the fight against organized crime and the Ukrainian President's decree of February 6th of this year on these issues must be immediately concentrated. In this context, there is a need for a qualitatively different level of supervision of the activities of the bodies carrying out the search and the conduct of the investigations and the conduct of the trial. An extremely pressing problem that is closely related to this is the investigation of the prosecutor’s office. First of all, we need to find the answer to the question: Who, though, can take over the investigation of the cases currently in the prosecutor’s office? Based on their specifics, the IMF, the DPA, they're not ready for that. So now the draft new Code of Criminal Procedure lays down the progressive transfer of cases from the Public Prosecutor's Office to the Ministry of Justice, together with the creation of appropriate departments in this department. Another problem related to the constitutional functions of the Public Prosecutor’s Office is the enforcement and enforcement of laws. According to the transitional provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine, other bodies should come to amend the prosecutor's office to ensure that law enforcement is monitored. Some claim that such organs are in operation today. Then the question arises, If such organs already exist, what do they do? What do they do when the number of violations found by the Public Prosecutor's Office increases? Here are just a few numbers. In the current year, nearly 11,000 criminal cases have been investigated by the Public Prosecutor’s Office, 8,000 of which are being tried. 25,000 prosecutors protested. As a result of the tests, 70,000 officials were called to account. In such a situation, refusing to intervene would be only for the benefit of wrongdoers, criminals. And this, according to a well-known politician, is definitely true. I'm good. In the future, the so - called general oversight must be transformed into a monitoring of human rights and freedoms by executive authorities and local self - rule. In detecting such violations, the Prosecutor’s Office should either address the issue of criminal responsibility or appeal to the court for protection of the rights and legitimate interests of the person. More attention is needed in court cases. We've been getting things turned upside down lately. See how everyone now cares about the rights of the criminal. Maybe that's the way it's supposed to be. But who will mention the victim, the mother who lost her son, the raped girl, who was robbed to the last penny of a man? Higher justice, in my opinion, is to protect the rights of the injured person, state interests, while strictly upholding human rights and freedoms while bringing them to legal responsibility. That is exactly what prosecutors should promote by exercising their authority. And last but not least. Human resources. The effective work of the Public Prosecutor’s Office is impossible without solving the human resources problems. That is why much depends on the authority of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the level of trust that our fellow citizens have in it. This is closely related to the organizational plan. I'll bring you this data. Over the past two years, the number of central offices of the Attorney General’s Office has increased by 25 percent. At the same time, a large number of structural units have been created, often duplicating each other’s authority. The number of posts of directors of these units has increased almost fourfold. All of this, in my view, complicates leadership and clears the responsibility of specific individuals for the state of affairs. In this way the streamlining of the structure, the resolution of personnel problems, the drafting of the procurator’s constitutional powers is part of a successful solution to tasks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, the speech by Hennady Andrievich Vasiliev has been completed. Let us turn to questions and answers. Please sign up for a question to a colleague of ours. Please put your name on the board. Anatoly Kozlowski, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u24	Dear Gennady Andriyovich, please tell me if we trust you and you will work for the Attorney General, will you be in charge of protecting the man and the law or will you do what you're told? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u25	I think the prosecutor should have one host, one manager is the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u26	Instead of Lucenka, the question is raised by Vitaly Šibko, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u27	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Sibko. Gennady Andryovich, I have two questions for you. The first question is, I think you'd better answer it for your future. Do you think the President's position was motivated when he released the Sandman? When was he not guided by the law and the requirements of the law for the release of Henprosecutor, but said that the prosecutor was merely concerned with some populist issues, political issues? I'm asking you this question because we didn't vote for the Sandman. That's the first one. And the second. How you will react to such a situation. Here's the prosecution's report, and I've been looking at it for the past year -- there's this thick foliot -- and there's different indicators. Here's Dnipropetrovsk, where it says that there's a lot of referrals to court, they're made, they're paid a lot of money for not paying up there, on pay, and so on. And there's quite an area like Hersonian, Odessa, where very few cases have been brought to trial. Will you be guided by these indicators as you continue to determine the professional level of your subjects in the fields?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u28	Dear Vitaly Jacobovich, regarding my predecessor, would be wrong if I were to make some assessments about his work right now. Procurator's office. The main thing, in my opinion, is not quantity, but quality.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u29	Michael Dobkin instead of Alexander Jaroslav asks the question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u30	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich. I'll be very brief. In our meeting with you, the MPs received answers to all the questions we asked you. The answers were meaningful, qualified. So now I want to say that we will support you. We would like you to pass the examination of your appointment to this high office. And when that happens, we want you to be patient, this is not an easy time for the country to be the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u31	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u32	It's a wish. Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u33	Thank you. Ivan Mihovich, Ukrainian Company faction, Carpathian. Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, you've touched the human resources policy in the prosecutor's office. So far, there have been huge skirmishes. I'm just going to say that every year and a half in our region, the prosecutor changes. Appropriately, he carries the frames in the lower chains. This causes serious, legal, and organizational, and financial, and psychological difficulties, dramatically reduces the activity of prosecutors. In addition, it is widely reported that district authorities continue to intervene in all their activities. So I would like to say how, if approved, you intend to rebuild human resources policy in this important body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u34	It's a very important question. That's the main question about any department -- the frame. Indeed, some prosecutors may be more involved in politics than in what they need to do in accordance with the Constitution, according to the Procurator's Act, and should be ordered to do so. The prosecutor can't submit to any local authority -- he's on his own. Otherwise he'll depend on a different opinion, and for him to be just the law is the criteria for his actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u35	Vladimir Strtotovich faction "Our Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u36	Vladimir Stretović, faction of Our Ukraine, Party of the Christian Democratic Union. Gennady Andryovich, judging from the press reports, you are a believing and devout man because you donated $450,000 to the temple of the patronage of the Holy Virgin Mary, at your expense they built a church in the village of Old Komar. As a believer, you cannot lie. So tell me, yes or no, in one word. Do you consider yourself involved in the formation of an organized criminal group in the Donetsk region formed in recent years in Ukraine? Yes or no? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u37	As for the first question, I won't answer it. As far as the other is concerned, it's about being involved or not being involved. You know, it's already not right, so let's put it mildly, the line of conduct of some of the members of the faction "Our Ukraine" and it's become a visiting card for her. And that applies to you to the full.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u38	Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u39	I give the floor to a well-known lawyer and lawyer Vassil Vasilovich Onopenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u40	Thank you. Gennady Andryovich, I want to say that I know you. Onopenka, I'm Gennady Andryovich. I know you well, we've worked on various projects, laws, and I know, first of all, as a literate lawyer and a professional. I know you've come a long way, and that's a lot for a future high office. So I would like to ask you, "Do you intend to reform the very structure of the Public Prosecutor's Office in accordance with the new requirements of the Constitution?" In fact, few of these reforms have touched on today’s challenges. And the last. Human rights questions. Because, on the one hand, there's been a lot of positions of fine professionals, beautiful people who didn't want to work for orders, political things that they were, and you know that. Do you intend, first of all, to return these professionals, and, on the other hand, to get rid of those prosecutors who worked specifically for political orders, and we know how these cases ended?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u41	On the second question. What does my attitude have to do with personnel policy? I said, really, what should be the criteria, is the profession, the qualifications, this understanding of things, this is the integrity of a person, without it can't be. You know how they say there's still a need for a head for every law. So this man, the prosecutor's worker, is still with his head. As far as reform is concerned. My attitude here in Parliament is known for any reform: both the judiciary, and the prosecutors, and the internal affairs, and the Security Service, and generally the law enforcement agencies. The main criterion is that it doesn't get any worse than those reforms to a simple person. The D.A.'s office has to change. I already said, four times the number of executives in the D.A.'s department has increased. Is that okay, please? Can the prosecutor at least know his subjects in person? No, he can't. What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u42	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u43	The city of Zaporozhye, the faction of SDPU. Dear Hennady Andriyovich! I'm going to vote for you personally because I don't know you for the first year of work in the Labour Ukraine MP group. I have a question for the following order. Against the backdrop of a court-martial that literally kills society today and destroys the foundations of the rule of law, of which we are informed daily by the public in letters and in appeals, people's hopes for justice are more often addressed by the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Because you know, for today it's, by the way, the answer to why a majority MP is needed, a man can't go to court, he won't find the truth there. Today it is not a judicial branch of power, it is already a closed Shareholder Society with investments from interested persons. Please tell me, do you see as the Attorney General, I'm going to call it, the ways of changing the organization of the judiciary so that we can put this monster that we gave birth here in this room in defense of the rule of law?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u44	Indeed, it is a very painful question regarding the work of our courts. In 2001, we passed about 10 laws, we rebuilt the so-called little judicial reform. And what did we get? We haven't come close, maybe we've diverted the man from justice. For several years, it takes a person’s turn to consider his case. Tens of thousands of cases are now found in both civil cases and criminal cases are in the Supreme Court of Ukraine. And it's the turn when it reaches them that's unknown. It also touches on reform. So once again, the reform needs to be very balanced. As for the judicial branch of power, we must return to what we have done. Practice has already shown us that we have made a mistake. So let's correct it all together. Here we are in this room, in this Parliament we made this mistake, let's correct it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u45	The answers to the questions have been completed. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Strutovich, please. Get ready for the Squirrel.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u46	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, distinguished radio listeners! My performance will consist of two parts. And in the first part, I want to say that the discharge of the Attorney General has taken place in violation of the Constitution's basic law. Article 1 of the Constitution says that Ukraine is the rule of law and that in Ukraine the rule of law is the rule of law. And when we open article 122, it says that the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office is headed by the Attorney-General, who is appointed President of Ukraine by the Supreme Council and is dismissed by the President of Ukraine from office. There is no motive when the prosecutor can be dismissed. But in the following article, we read that the organization and order of activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office are governed by law, and the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office today is, it's not cancelled, it's in effect. The second article states that the discharge or resignation of the Attorney General of Ukraine during the term of office may take place only in cases of delinquency, a breach of duty in connection with the inability to perform health duties, and at his own request. It is in these cases that the President issues a decree in time, within a five - year deadline for the discharge of the Attorney General. The law does not provide for other cases. And when, today, the Coordinating Committee by decree of the President, having been authorized to advise him to take the prosecutor down, I reiterate that this has been done illegally, it has been done in an explicit manner, despite the fact that article 19 of the Constitution states that the authorities of the State and local self-government, their officials act within and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. In this case, they were guided by the President's decree, so the discharge of the Attorney General is illegal. Part two. There's only one minute left. Dear Gennady Andryovich, I have asked you this question by no chance because in every civilized state there are questions of honour, questions of the honor of a civil servant, questions of the honour of every citizen. And when the Internet and the media today print these articles -- "In the Land of the Not-Fearing Prosecutors," which clearly describes your actions in the Danish District, when you can take these kind of passages from here. For example, by listing the Doña factory owners, the newspapers, for some reason political scientists are shy about shutting down the name of our hero, such a mini-oligarha with its own bank, coal corporation, television company and so on and so forth. That's a question I've been asking you. I want to tell you to get your consciences, your honors, and tell you that I can't be the Attorney General in my qualities, because I'm a little tired, I've got, what to say, and the time is coming, we'll talk about it. And secondly, Hennaday Andriyovich, you're violating the philosophical law, the philosophers said that you can't enter the same water twice. You've already entered this water in the '95s and you want to enter this water again! You can't do that. The laws of philosophy are not the laws of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u47	Vladimir Nechiporuk, get ready for Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u48	Thank you. Vladimir Nechiporuk, 194th constituency, Hmelničina. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor! At its meeting yesterday, the Committee on Legislative Security, after discussion, unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that Vasilyev Hennady Andryovich be appointed Attorney General of Ukraine. I have been invited to bring the decision of the committee to the Supreme Council. It was noted that, in its practical experience in the offices of the prosecutor’s office, professionalism, organizational skills, productivity, principles, and culture, Hennaday Vasiliev will ensure that he is entrusted with the duties of the head of the prosecutor’s office, the rule of law in the state, and will create a real law enforcement body. He should say that when discussing the candidature, attention was drawn to the need for the new Attorney-General to take decisive measures to eradicate the abuse of the public prosecutor and, above all, the procurator-General's representatives, to clean up the central apparatus from those who have created lawlessness by their actions. Hennady Andriyovich assured that he would take all measures to eliminate and prevent violations of legislation by prosecutors, including a careless attitude toward citizens. Gennady Andryovich has known us since 1986. As the district’s investigative director, the deputy director of the Central Office of Investigations, and then the chief’s office was associated with the deputy prosecutor of Ukraine, then acting as the head of the general oversight unit, he proved to be extremely positive. In principle and incorruptibility, serving the law and nothing else, have always set it apart. He was irreconcilable to any violation of legislation and the reinforcement of it is facts. It was because of the principle of disagreement with the prosecutor’s office that he decided to leave his job in the Central Office when he returned to Donetsk for the prosecutor’s appointment to the district. On the declaration of independence, Vasiliev was appointed prosecutor of the Donetsk Region and later a member of the College of the Attorney General of Ukraine. In principle and initiative have always set him aside at a meeting of the College. This person has his own personal belongings and personal belongings, such as decency. I am confident that in the future this person will live up to the principles of the ministry of the law. A 50 - year - old man who has been raised, cultured, and a sense of responsibility cannot change the barometer of order, the service of the State and the people. Moreover, Hennaday Andriyovich is naturally endowed with wisdom and soundness of mind. I ask all of you, colleagues, to support the decision of our committee and to support Hennady Andrievich Vasiliev's candidacy for this high office of Attorney General of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u49	Mikola Rudzkowski. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u50	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs! Hennaday Andriyovich is going to the Attorney General’s office at a difficult time, since the latter has now turned the Attorney General’s Office into a contractor of certain oligarchic groups. And unfortunately, Svetoslav Piscoon--rightly he was released from office or not--if he has a position that is wrong, he must go to the Supreme Court and press charges. Somehow he doesn't. Is it because he has certain sins behind him? On the one hand, Revoslav Piscoon divorced the opposition by saying that he would complete the investigation of the Gongadze case and avoided going out to the Supreme Council and claiming specific culprits. He divorced the president and said he was going to plant Julia Timoshenko, and in the meantime he was doing, like all Ukrainian high-ups, a simple family business. And I think the decision has been made correctly. If it hadn't been adopted by the President, and after hearing this question, he would have made the same decision at the Supreme Council Hall. And that's why when you go out and what's happened, Hennady Andryovich, you realize that when you go into office, you have to have a personal opinion, not think about who's taking what position, who's thinking what. Because the D.A.'s no-brainer office can't handle it. For me, the personal quality of Hennady Andriyovich, his willingness to take office as Attorney General, was the matter of investigating us, in the Supreme Council, the investigating commission of a situation with so-called falsification of the budgetary process. I remember on the Conciliation Council, the head of the Supreme Council insisted that Hennady Andriyovich say there was nothing there. Why did he say, "I, as a former prosecutor, can't say anything but that the elements of falsification were. If you want to hear something else, assign someone to tell you what you want to hear." I believe that he passed the test on the existence of his opinion. Whether he has enough power in the office of Attorney General is a question of discussion. Our faction has not determined whether or not to vote. But if you become Hennady Andriyovich, Attorney General, I ask you, until constitutional reform is complete, until the Attorney General becomes independent, "do not lie down", neither under the Bank, nor under the oligarchs, nor under the business, and stand in the position where you stood, in the position of one--the law. And then you're not going to be the Attorney General either before the reform, and then, and then the presidential election, and then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u51	Yuri Carmazin, get Tomenka ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u52	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Honorable National MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. Today, of course, many questions are raised about the highest level of oversight of the legality of the body, which is the Ukrainian procurator’s office. We've dropped the D.A.'s bill so far, it's going to be very difficult to pick it up right now. And in many cases, I am impressed by what he has just said in his speech to the recipient of this high office, Hennaday Andryovich. I want us, Parliament and most of the people who refused to listen to Piscoon, to think and realize that she is responsible for the situation in the Attorney General's Office. What she's responsible for is the shame that's being circulated like that in the newspapers. From the Krystack newspaper on October 14th. I read one of the decisions published by the Kyiv City Council: "To transfer to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine and to the Society with limited responsibility "Alliance Centre" of the land for the construction, operation and maintenance of the office and residence complex at the Peoples' Friendship Gallery 14/16. Together with a limited liability company, office housing units are being built." And what do you think one of them was planning to build, or is it planned now? No, not one. And here you'll see what's planned here for the Laboratory, for 7 to take to the athletes a field where they're training hammer throwers, where our Olympic glory was being trained and trained. And I think he'll be training. And the whole shame, the 12 plots of my data now checked, the 12 plots are out, because that's exactly what's profitable today, the areas and the land in Kiev. What is done after this? Nothing. Ladies and gentlemen! I wrote to the Attorney General in the past what is done in the Kharkiv region, and in Donetsksky's writing area, I made a decision from this rostrum. Dear Hennady Andriyovich! If you don't return to these facts, to the fact that today in the Attorney General's Office there are a lot of other people, but you're going to have to argue with those who are in power today, you're going to have to argue with Prime Minister Janukovich, who came out, you know from what environment he was raised by? The Bandit environment brought up today’s Prime Minister. And that's what the whole country knows, and that's what the verdict says. Therefore, the honourable national MPs, the requirements for the prosecution must now be very serious, and the Attorney-General must serve the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian Constitution, the Ukrainian law in order to be preserved by the Attorney-General. I'll vote like that. How the faction will vote. I've been working with Hennadi Andryovich for many years, and I know him through the joint work of both the prosecutor's office and the committee. The faction's decision is still pending. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u53	Mikola Tomenko, get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u54	Mikola Tomenko, Victor Yushchenk's "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear colleagues! I am one of the few national deputies who voted against the appointment of the Attorney General of Saint Piscoon. These are in our Supreme Council as many as 11. 347 national deputies voted in favour of the appointment of Saint Piscoon as Attorney General. When I listen to today's discussion, I have the impression, especially when colleagues from the United Social-Democratic Party say they've been reading six papers for years, only the name of the Attorney General's candidate is changed. I have the text of our previous discussion where the colleagues of SDPU say, "We are dealing with the high professional and principled man of Svetoslav Piscoon. That's why we're offering to support him." Colleagues in the region are similar. Fellow Communists say, "Holy Kyiv land gives such worthy men the position of Attorney General as Svetoslav Piscoon." I have a question. Where are these 347 people's deputies? And where is the President of Ukraine who said that there is no one higher than the moral and professionalism of a man like Svetoslav Piscoon in Ukraine? Who will be politically responsible for the fact that today the Ukrainian people are listening on all channels of television, that the greater aggressor, the more immoral and unprofessional a man than the Orthodox Piscoon in Ukraine? So the position of the faction "Our Ukraine" is principled and unequivocal. We have to listen here to those who recommended Saintoslav Piscona, including the President, and to the Attorney General himself, who has to say, did he, along with these 347 people's deputies and the President, act immorally, engage in family business, banditry? Did he do it himself, and did not all others know what was going on in Ukraine for a year and a half? What matters to us in principle is that today, as long as there is no new Attorney General, we have been issued with key witnesses in the Gongadze case. We have General Ferol Commission today, a key witness on the charge, and God willing to let him survive. We have two witnesses today, Vladimir Acid, who barely survived, and General Puchac, who was released, may not be able to get to the testimonies in the near future. The position of our faction is clear. Even today, we have the facts that he did not die his own death. The story of Malevov shows that law enforcement authorities should take witnesses for protection and we should bring the Gongadze case to a conclusion, not bury it in the ground and forget its existence. I think Hennady Andriyovich knows the Alexandrov case well as the procurator of Donetsk and we should hear the names not only of those who destroyed Alexandrov but of those who ordered the daughter. And finally, I want to say, in our opinion, Hennaday Andriyovich, who was on the faction, couldn't take the exam. Because if he has to explain to a professional whether the SS is Fascist symbolism and who Hitler was, I think when he couldn't say that the propaganda of Fascist symbolism in Donetsk is a crime to be held accountable under the Criminal Code? How, then, will he judge those who violate the Criminal Code? So the faction will determine, but we are concerned about two fundamental things. The first principle is that the appointment of Vasiliev may lead to the rotation of this Presidency and the introduction of a state of emergency in Parliament, should we think about that? And that the KPC, which Hennaday Andriyovich was working on, should not become the document for the introduction of an extraordinary prosecutor in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u55	It's Basil Nadrag's word to prepare for Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u56	Dear colleagues! Turning to the topic of today's agenda on consent to the appointment by the Attorney-General, Gennady Andreevich, I would like to express several positions that have been echoed in his meeting with our People's Choice Group. One. The People's Choice Group agrees with this nomination. We believe that this person fits in two ways. First, he's a professional, he's out of this system. He knows this system, and what the prosecution of Gennady Andreevich doesn't have to explain. And the second is equally important: he does not need to be obsessive, and in our view it is also the law, as part of the fact that, as a deputy, he himself has been working and not only a deputy, but in the recent calls by the first deputy, he knows, respectively, how the laws and his words and his statements should change the legislative framework, if we are to say so in this case, of the legislative framework, they are supported not only by the practice that has created the laws, but also by the practice that is able and understands how these laws should work. So once again, I'm going to say, "The People's Choice" is ready to support this figure. We believe that this is normal, we believe that such people should come to this post. However, as part of this discussion, we have made several comments, our proposals, and how the Attorney-General should deal with them if they become Gennadi Andreevich and we are counting on him to be appointed. First, we certainly believe that it is important that personnel and structural changes are needed in the Public Prosecutor's Office system. To date, this structure has not carried out the basic tasks assigned to it. We therefore believe that it is the task of the Attorney-General to define the concept of the development of the Public Prosecutor's organs and, accordingly, to determine who and what posts to work on in order for the concept to take place. Next and no less important moment. We are deeply convinced that, to date, the Public Prosecutor's Office is not using its own legislative framework for the protection of existing legislation, and most importantly, for the protection of today's ordinary citizens. Today, facts can be found when a person receives time limits, prison sentences, for the petty hooliganism of the fact that organized crime is actually almost free of weapons. We are deeply convinced that today's work of the Public Prosecutor's Office must be shifted to looking for small ones, I beg your pardon, small fleas to take on the principled agenda. However, we are deeply convinced that the work of the Prosecutor's Office with the Supreme Council and with the deputies, with our requests, should be redesigned. Because if the Office of the Attorney-General and I find ourselves in what parts of the common language and working on issues, unfortunately, we often only receive discounts at a lower level. Well, last of all, it's back to the hall. We propose, however, that the appointment of the Attorney-General be brought to the fore by the appointment of the person responsible for the post, rather than by political bargaining, but not by the removal, excuse me, of the buckets of dirt and by the hunt of each other, in order to express their concern for the State, but by the fact that they are seeking their political interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u57	Stepan Bulba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u58	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Immediately, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has no reservations about the professional and professional qualifications of the candidate for the post of Attorney General Vasilyev Hennady Andryovic. But in this case, we are concerned about something else. Would he not, like his predecessors, including the Sandman, be the victim of a hostage of an existing system of authority? After releasing the Piscoon with a violation of the law, the President demonstrated his attitude toward the Constitution, demonstrating who was in the home of the masters. So, is it enough in Hennady Andriyovich to have the capacity, in accordance with the Constitution, to carry out the functions of law enforcement, the function of protecting the interests of Ukrainian citizens? This was the subject of a meeting of the PPE faction in the presence of Hennady Andriyovich. Is there enough courage, principle, understanding of its role in the struggle for the rule of law and law? As they say, glory and praise. I don't think anyone understands that he's going to be chosen right now. And the first step in this direction, I think, is said to be the lamus paper that will be his definition and attitude of resonant crimes in our country, as far as the Gongadze case is concerned, on other matters that should have been notified long ago to specific final public decisions. Otherwise, he will become a bargaining chip in the unworthy games of Kuchma and its criminalized, oligarchy environment, as happened to the Sandman, for which, by the way, the Socialists did not vote and therefore cannot bear any responsibility for his actions and the state of legality in the state caused by his inactivity. The final decision of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will be taken before the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u59	Jaroslav Suhi, please. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u60	Thank you. I asked for one minute because our time is running out. And I would like to say that as an industrial representative of Zaporozhye, I am impressed by the fact that there will be a person in our state as Attorney General who started her career in the legendary Donetsk Region as a worker. And working with Hennadi Andrievich in Trudov Ukraine, in a group called Hard Ukraine, I saw him both in principle and in professionalism. And I can tell you that it was on several occasions that he was protecting bills that were aimed at supporting a domestic producer. So it's going to be the Attorney General, who's still alive. And another quality, I want to warn everyone, is the quality that Basil has: he's not afraid of responsibility, so he's an uncomfortable person. If someone hopes that he will be able to use some of his old connections, he is deeply mistaken. It's a man of great prudence. And I wish you, Hennaday Andriyovich. You less listen here to the provocative speeches of those who do not have the right to open their mouths in this room, because they have one evil after their souls, they sow strife and hatred among men. And the CEO's hopes for law enforcement in the south and east of Ukraine are the executive corps that knows it are entirely on you. And I wish you success in your, frankly, very ungrateful but absolutely necessary work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u61	Valery Konovaluk, please. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u62	Dear Chairman, Honourable Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished colleagues. This is the first time we've approved a person in this position who has a high professional level. The experience of parliamentary activity, a man who confirmed his efforts to strengthen the rule of law and order in the state. The Ukraine faction unanimously supports Hennadi Andrivovich Vasiliev's candidacy and aims to fight crime and corruption for all of us. The role and place of prosecution at the current stage of the development of the rule of law is very great. And I'd like to answer to the distinguished National Deputy Stretovich. When you stand in front of your leader against charges and the distribution of information from individual internet outlets, and then you use the same information source, accusing others of being respected, double standards. And Piscoon's support included the voices of "Our Ukraine." So I urge you: let's work together to correct the mistake we've made together. And last time. Dear colleagues, at the United States Supreme Court in Washington, D.C., there are these words: "Equitable justice before the law." I want you, Hennaday Andriyovich, to sign into the Attorney General's house with your own hands: "Equitable responsibility before the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u63	The discussion is over and I ask you, Hennaday Andryovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u64	A few final words. I want to say again: insults, humiliation -- it's already entered the normality of the "Ukrainian" faction. All right! As for that offensive article you were talking about here, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, there is a lawsuit before the court and I will do everything I can to have this case considered. I recommend that your leader do the same, not set up a gun here in the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u65	The discussion is over. The replica. Stratovitch, please, from the spot, and let's finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u66	Dear Chairman, Honourable Hennaday Andriyovich. If it's not true, please tell me why, after two publications saying "the end should be" the next day, the CRIPO website. Ukraine. Yuya is closed for distribution. Is there a verdict for that? None. Because, as the people say, "True in the eyes of the wheel." And the fact that you didn't answer my question: "yes" or "no" has exposed you quite enough. "Smart enough," the Latins said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u67	This issue is closed; we will vote in session mode. Let's move on to the next question. Please, Hennady Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, the next question is the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine’s implementation of the policy of privatizing strategically important industrial objects. Reported by the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine - Chechetov Mikhailo Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u69	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national deputies. One of the initiators of today’s issue for consideration by the Supreme Council was the Head of the Supreme Council Committee, Yuri Mikhailovich Yehanurov. This issue has already been discussed at a joint meeting of the Industrial Policy Committee and the Privatization Control Commission. And they offered both the format and the structure of my presentation on the Supreme Council. Since the beginning of privatization processes, special attention has been paid by the State Property Fund and its regional offices to privatizing enterprises that are strategically important to the economy. The list of strategic enterprises has been approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 29.08.2000 and is constantly adjusted by amending and supplementing this document. The criteria under which enterprises to those of strategic importance to the economy and security of the State or to the monopoly on the public market for goods, jobs and services are determined by a government decree of 15.05. In 2003 As of 01.11.2003, this list includes 1,098 enterprises. The specialities of privatization of enterprises that are strategically important for the economy and security of the State continue to be defined by the State's privatisation programme for 2000-2002, which is in place prior to the adoption of the new privatization programme. In particular, according to the decision - making program. Enterprises that have strategic importance for the economy and security of the state are accepted by agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[paragraph 24]] The terms of privatization of these enterprises are subject to agreement with the government. [[Programme item 38]] Qualifying requirements that meet the objectives and priorities of privatization of enterprises that are strategically important for the economy and security of the state may be established for participants in the open-trade competition for the sale of the stock control package. Only an industrial investor can be the buyer of the stock control package. [[This is recorded in paragraph 59 of the privatization programme, which was voted and supported by the Supreme Council, acts as a law]] According to paragraph 11 of the program, an industrial investor is defined by a domestic or foreign investor or their associations, who are interested in preserving the shares of the enterprise in the market of the product concerned and produce, perform, provide services similar to basic products, jobs, services of the enterprise that are privatized or consumed mainly by the production of products, jobs, services of such an enterprise or the production of goods, services of services used mainly by the production, the enterprise that is privatized as the primary raw material? Do they exercise direct control over such enterprises for at least one year? An industrial investor can't be a company registered in the zone, I've brought a quote from the Privatization Program, which acts as a law. The complexity and ambiguity of the above-mentioned definition of an industrial investor is that this significantly limits the participation of potential buyers in privatization of enterprises that are strategically important for the economy and security of the state. Although, on the other hand, it largely guarantees that an investor will come to an enterprise that will ensure that the company will develop. In a new draft of the privatization programme, the concept of an industrial investor has been abolished, significantly increasing competition in the privatization process and reducing the number of disputes and subpoenas. Unfortunately, the draft of the new privatization programme was not supported by the Supreme Council and in the first reading, it is now being redesigned taking into account the comments and proposals of the people's deputies. In doing so, we have invited representatives of the Supreme Council's Economic Policy Committee and the Privatization Supervisory Commission to contribute to the project of the new privatization programme, and now these representatives of these committees and the monitoring committee, together with representatives and the government, the Holding Fund, are actively involved in the work of the new edition of the privatization programme, taking into account the comments and suggestions made in the Hall. And I hope that this program will be adopted. I would like to stress once again that the category of industrial investor in the new edition has been removed. This corresponds practically to the position of most of the Supreme Council, most of the deputies of the Supreme Council. Another thesis. According to existing legislation, there are only two representatives of the Maintenance Fund, while others are representatives of the Mineconomy, the Securities Commission, the Sectoral Ministries, the Observatory, the local authorities and the law enforcement authorities of the BSS and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Well, now, as I was suggested at a joint meeting of the Supreme Council Committee of Industrial Policy and the Control Board, I will be on separate subjects. The first is information about the DAC "Stuffrom". Holding and state-owned stockholder companies were created by their majority in the process of reorganizing the structure of central executive bodies. From the point of view of the State Property Fund, these are artificial governance structures, which are mainly to be reorganized by way of decommissioning from their statutory stock funds. for further privatization. But to consider and make specific decisions for each company, the government has created an interministerial working group on the privatization of enterprises and on the effective management of corporate rights, which determines whether it is appropriate to function or wind up or privatize these companies. Today, under the leadership of the Minister of Economics. So Krusprom has a special status and a significant impact in the field of mining and metallurgical complex activities. This question requires a very balanced decision. The property fund strategy is to privatize the company with the only package. At the same time, the sale of a government package to domestic buyers can be done by creating an investment consortium, a consortium of DAC purchasers. And really, once this object is privatized, it will have to solve a whole set of problems, social problems in the region, and environmental problems in the region. And in this case, in our view, this is really the best solution when the only investor who will be able not only to invest and ensure the future of the Crucifixion, but also to solve the whole set of problems as socio-economic, environmental problems in this important region. In all, privatization of the company is proposed under a separate law after the Supreme Council of Ukraine has adopted the Code on Nadra and the organization of the legislative base in the area of land use and environmental protection. With regard to the focus of control by the Holding Fund on corporate governance in the UKprom DAC, this is primarily explained by the transfer of significant state assets to its statutory fund, the loss of control over governance that could lead to major losses. The second business is to privatize the Krivorozhyg state-owned mining unit "Cruvorizstal". The Krivoriz state-owned mining unit Krivorizstal is now exclusively a state-owned enterprise that is subordinated to the Minprompolitics of Ukraine. By order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on August 6, 2003, approval of the schedule, the draft privatization preparation of the Krivorižge State Mining and Metallurgical Combined "Crevorizstal" approved the schematic, the privatisation preparation project. A plan has been drawn up according to the above-mentioned instructions by Minprompolitics, a project of privatization training for the enterprise. In particular, this plan provides for first-hand implementation of measures for the transfer of socio-economic objects and housing to municipal property. the community, the implementation of measures for the transfer of social objects to privatization bodies for further sale, the preparation of decisions on the early repayment of foreign debt, the granting of guarantees to the government, the decision on the repayment of debt to the State for VAT, the enforcement of measures to eliminate the write-off of hopeless receivables, and so on. So far, there has been no decision to privatize the Krivorižge State Mining Metallurgical Combine of Crevyzstall. The decision on the form of sales and sales terms can be taken by the government, based on the particular economic situation and the need to fill the State budget only after the completion of the privatisation preparation project, which is still under way. The latest thesis on the implementation of the plan of revenue from privatization to the State Budget. This year, the State Property Fund implemented a half - year income plan, and implemented the plan nine months later. We have now successfully implemented the plan in ten months. From privatization, $1 billion has been received from the State budget. It's 800 million. The money in the plan is $2 billion. 100. There is full confidence that the plan for the coming of funds from privatization to the State budget will be successfully implemented this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u70	Are there any questions? Please sign in. Light up, please. Basil Nadrag. The next one is Tsushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u71	Dear Mikhail Vasiljevic, when we discuss the topic of privatization, we keep saying that it will benefit the economy, it will benefit production and everything else. I'm interested in one question, too, in this case, in the "Criminals". My colleague has expressed, and not alone, doubts that in this case we can say that this will benefit the labour force in the territory where it is. So here's the question. How is it that the interests of the labour community, the local population, the social and housing community of all institutions are taken into account when you are here to privatize? Is it not possible that you and I are doing what the Territory is beginning to die out, that the labour force is shrinking further, further, further? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u72	It is precisely when we privatize strategic sites that we are trying to attract investors who are interested in both the business development perspective and in solving a number of problems related to the region in which the enterprise is located. First of all, it is a problem of employment. The problem of employment is, of course, related to the work of the enterprise, to its technological renewal, re-arms and to the increase in market output. I can therefore give a number of examples where strategic sites have been implemented, where, indeed, both specific labour groups and specific regions have benefited from this. The same ocean factory, where it found the Dutch structure, the shipbuilding plant, where the wages went up, and people were working, and the work prospects for several years were being seen. The same Linos factory, where there was a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council, I attended where we were directly at the factory and specifically asked people what privatization had given them. I asked the first question, "What's your salary?" The average wage is over two hundred dollars, where people are provided, housing is quietly built, people are involved, where the enterprise is receiving and financing rest, and so on. Of course, such facilities, this income of such an investor is for the benefit of both the enterprise and the region. Therefore, it is precisely the task of the privatization process to place money at the top of the agenda, not money in the budget, namely the investor's income, which will provide a perspective for the enterprise, the prospects for the labour community and the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u73	Mikhail Vasilovich, please give a more concise answer to your questions. A lot's been written down. Vitali Jakovitch Šibko, please. Weak, please, the weak microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u74	A weak faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Mikhail Vasilevich, I want to hear your motivation, at times, in the privatization of strategic sites. I understand if it's sold for money, as it did, let's say, Hungary. And that's what our faction has said on several occasions: the budget received from it, there was no dispersion, the distribution of these stocks among people, then who don't receive dividends and so on. But it's always been about objects that don't work that lie there. But if it is now a matter of principle that the object that gives money to the budget, such as the Crimsonstock and others, should still break the situation that exists there and give it away. All right, here's Mariupol's privatized. That's what lost the budget. So is there any strategy in the fund today to say that, yes, this object is privatized, and even if there is some kind of profit, because there are no funds being updated, because there is a future that is not very good and so on? Is there such a vision for each enterprise in a strategic direction that even works and gives money to the budget today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u75	Absolutely. The thing is, I can give an example when I had two heads of state enterprises yesterday, which are already bankrupt, but unfortunately they don't issue them for privatization. If they are not privatized, the private cannot enter the investment and the State does not have the money. Therefore, with regard to those enterprises where we see them operating inconveniently, which are, well, limited to their own investment resources, there is a clear and clear strategy: the sooner we bring in a private investor, the faster the enterprise will get to a more efficient level of work, the higher the level of work and become more competitive. With regard to those enterprises that are indeed working with great profits, this issue is already purely a matter of economic security for the State and must be adopted at the level of the Government. But we also need to take into account what we have to take into account, of course, the budget. If we fit into the public budget for privatization money and the failure of income will lead to a failure of funding, including social articles, then we must think about the consequences. Then you don't have to write down the income part of the budget, solid amounts. There is no need, nor will it be necessary, to exhibit those enterprises where substantial amounts of income can be obtained. But once again, in large, serious objects, you can see that there is no rush. The Privatization Act of Quartelecom was adopted a year or two ago. But since the market environment is against us today, it does not guarantee effective sales and we are not in a hurry to sell and we are not selling this facility. Here, as it were, mistakes in privatizing such facilities are generally harmful to the national security of the country. Therefore, there is no rush to privatize such facilities and there will be no and that will be a well-balanced decision for the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u76	Ludmila Kirichenko from the Privatization Commission, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u77	Ludmila Kirichenko, Lugansk oblast, “Regions of Ukraine” faction. Having listened to your information, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that, first of all, when we want to hear the State Property Fund, we must listen to the Ministry of Economics with you on important issues such as privatization, especially strategic sites. Because it is precisely in your information that the Ministry of the Economy is the initiator of the sale of such large facilities. And they have to explain the position - why they make such decisions. You know, on the Privatization Supervisory Commission, we've been looking at a very serious issue, both the privatization of Ukrrupprom and the Krivoroz metalworking combination. As for the privatization of Ukrupprom, the question was that where were the public shares that had gone. That is, there were 50 per cent for the State and 43 per cent for the State. And I believe that as long as we have, and we have applied to the Attorney General's Office, this question will not be found out about the privatization of Ukrupprom early. Why? Because the law that the Supreme Council has today basically repeats all the legislation that exists today and is being privatized. But the most important thing in this law is to legally approve 43 per cent through the law. That's all that matters. Actually, it doesn't have to be the law. Because all the laws are built for this line that there are 43 per cent. And we sell 43 percent. I would like you, as the State Property Fund, to, you know, engage in, or initiate, to participate more in the legislative process such as the adoption of such laws, and to reflect your position as well. I'd like to hear your opinion on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u78	Thank you very much. But this is about the privatization of Ukrtatnafta, 43 per cent, not Ukrupprom. Crucibles, yeah. Therefore, I have already repeated from this rostrum, I have said, and once again I wish to reiterate that we have the wisest parliament in the world, it always makes the right decisions. I don't think he's going to be wrong here either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u79	Have a seat, please. The committee reports to Bastriga Ivan Mikhajlovich, please. Please, Handy's microphone, he's got a procedure, we're doing something wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u80	Gennady Andryovich seems to be doing the right thing, but the question is that a lot of time is wasted on answers. As a result, the MPs, without exceeding their rules, have no opportunity to discuss and ask questions. I'd like to ask you somehow to divide the time of questions and the time of answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u81	I also pay attention to this so that the answers are concise. Please, Ivan Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u82	Dear Gennady Vasilevich! Dear colleagues! The issue that we are considering in the sessional room today, but it is a very, very important question for our State, because what is the sin of hiding there, we do not see the effectiveness of selling in many cases such strategic objects as Mikhail Vasiljevic spoke of today. [[Very sorry, of course, that few deputies]] At the joint meeting of our Special Commission on Privatization and the Committee on Industrial Policy, the question of Krivbass, Krivorožstali and Ukruprom was considered very carefully. And I can tell you colleagues that we have come, I believe, constructively and today here is Ludmila Fedorovna, a member of our commission says that early today to speak, we are not ready to let these two objects be privatized. First. Why? Even today, a 100 per cent state-owned company of Krivoroztal in the production of products, not by public structures, but by private entities, we do not know why this is, however, making more than 1 billion profits in the course of the year. What's the need? Let's move on. What did we do? We privatized some mines, we privatized those mines, we brought back those mines, we brought back the mines that are tails. I mean, they're working, they're putting water out of the budget, etc. Therefore, please, MPs, and we will insist, Mikhail Vasiljevic, that we return these mines to a single complex and exhibit them when we are ready with a whole package. Therefore, our Committee's request is clear, and we have decided that we should refrain from including in the list of enterprises to be privatized next year Krivoroztal and Ukrrupprom. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u83	Ivan Mikhailovich, may I ask you a question? Please! Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to sign up if there's a question. Please enlighten Yuri Karmazin, the next Mirimsky. From the procedure of one minute Yuri Anatoliyovich. Out of procedure, Vasil Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u84	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. I'd like to clarify how we're preparing, a question. See, the agenda states that the head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund has information on the implementation of privatization policies. important industrial objects. Reported by the head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Czechetov Mikhailo Vasilovich. Gennadi Andreevich, there is no Committee on Industrial Policy, there is no Main Committee on Economic Policy. This is not even on our agenda. How, then, are we holding a meeting? I'd like to ask you more carefully to prepare these materials so that you can understand who's reporting on who's cooking. The more transparent the committee on this issue, according to the State Property Fund, we have an Economic Policy Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u85	Still, what questions? Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u86	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. I'd like to ask how the committee is, and I'm backing up the decision on "Study," "Creakfasts." But I think we need to support the decision on "Qurtatnaft." And as the committee relates to the fact that such a factory as the southern import plant is now considering privatization. More strategically, I don't know what kind of enterprise there is in a state that still makes a profit in a state that has many and negative consequences because of its technology that there's pollution and so on. And as today's committee refers to the fact that a group of companies that have been separated from the former Blasco Company by the secret decree of our government, which is now in charge, sells the ship behind the ship without giving any money to the State Budget and the income part is now nothing. How do you feel about these questions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u87	First, when we held a joint meeting, this was practically the second joint meeting of the Ad Hoc Commission of the Industrial Policy Committee, and it was decided that all facilities that were strategically important to the State should be dealt with by the previous speaker, in order to carry out a joint two-three committee discussion. And I can say that in the control of our commission, we have considered both the Skrtatnafts, and in a decision that we have unfortunately not yet given to the session hall, it will only be signed today, it will be included in the list of objects that are not to be privatized, this object that we have talked about.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u88	Please, Mirimsky. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u89	I'd like to give the floor to the deputy, Demehina.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u90	Please, Demyohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u91	Dear Ivan Mihajlovich, I have more than a question to ask you than was the question of the procedure at all. We are indeed the Main Committee - the Committee on Economic Policy - on privatization, including strategically important sites. First of all. Unfortunately, the Committee's previously respected Mikhail Vasiljevic did not report such information; we did not discuss the issues. I'm being told that there was a joint meeting, I don't know, we have a very good relationship with the prompolitics committee, but we haven't considered this issue in the committee. And today I do not give the floor to a representative of our committee. Actually, it's very surprising that there's not even a report in the O.R. The most important question is, and we are very casually considering it. As for strategic objects at all, I would like to ask you a question, but not you, Ivan Mihajlovich, why do we not have information on whether or not the contracts for the management of a number of metalworks have been terminated by private structures? Is the issue of loss during the management of government packages considered? What measures have been taken in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u92	I understand that's not a question for me. But we held a joint meeting of the Industrial Policy Committee and the Special Monitoring Commission. We've practiced this twice.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u93	Vitaly Jakovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u94	A weak faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. This is all the time called a representative of the Main Committee. Tell me, in this Main Committee, what does "strategic object" mean? And if there is such an understanding, what objects are included in the concept of “strategic”? And there's some prospect that these strategic sites will be privatized, won't they? On what criteria and so on? I mean, the committee worked out these criteria that could be applied to the opponents of the Mine Fund, if he even insists on something?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u95	Regrettably, there are no criteria that would determine, but are simply hearing as if from the realization of the income that an object provides. The criterion of a specific net is unfortunately not. Obviously, we should do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u96	Please, Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u97	Indeed, there is no criterion for defining strategic enterprises, but not just that. Moreover, there is no clear structure, a clearly defined procedure, a transparent procedure for including strategic enterprises in the list of privatized objects. And there can be a lot of seductive things. How do you think this process needs to be regulated in order to meet those objects that are really possible, not those that cannot be included, and so that we do not fight here all the time against what those objects include. There has to be a procedure for identification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u98	Well, obviously, we've been holding parliamentary hearings in general on privatization, and they've been going through a lot. And we see that those shares in State corporate governance have no practical effect, and the State has no influence on the work of privatized enterprises. It is therefore necessary to legislatively decide whether, at the time of privatization, we should define conditions that would be adopted and oblige the new owner to not lower the level of profits, to not lower the level of profitability and so on and so forth. I mean, we need to take a serious document in the session room. This document should improve our legislation, our labour law and our State law, such as influence or public oversight of the work of privatized enterprises. Because income statistics from privatized enterprises indicate that this figure is very poor, it is only about 4 per cent in 2002, so that we will have the budget we seek to close the needs of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u99	Time's up. Have a seat, please. Is there anyone we have from the Committee on Economic Policy? Is there anyone authorized by the committee to speak on this matter? As far as I'm concerned. Oh, okay, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u100	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Committee on Economic Policy, Property and Investment. Dear colleagues, indeed, we are considering a very important issue today, of great importance. And we wouldn't want to do that with a grasp, but we would like to determine what our strategy and our tactics should be. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention to the four aspects of the problem of privatization of strategic objects that are now the most acute facets of the problem. One: this lack of reliable objective criteria for defining the concept of "strategic object". Well, apart from the fact that this object is of national importance, it is possible to arbitrarily include or not to include an enterprise. I think it's a conceptual question, but it's very, and it's theoretical, but it's a very important practical question, and we're always dealing with it in practice. Moreover, there is no clearly defined transparent procedure for including strategic objects in the list of privatized objects. And every time we're here, we're wondering why an object got on the list. We protest, we fight for expulsion. If it were clearly defined, a transparent procedure would not cause these problems. The second aspect is the privatization of strategic objects at no cost. So these businesses are led to artificial bankruptcy by certain groups of financial and political, local administrations, and not only local ones, and they're passed on to certain people, oligarchs often, these objects at no cost. There is virtually no budgeting. Moreover, it turns out that price owners are not effective owners. There would have been a half-wreck, no matter what we gave them for nothing, but they were effective in mastering them. But there's no such thing. That's the problem. Third problem. The new owners do not comply with the conditions under which they privatized. The Property Fund lists the conditions under which objects are privatized. It turns out that the new owners of these conditions don't comply, and this is where the reprivatisation mechanism should work if they don't meet the conditions. We don't have that either. Finally, the fourth aspect of strategic objects needs to be privatized. On the basis of specially enacted laws. Perhaps the most important of them is just a special law under the control of the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council's Supervisory Commission on Privatization and privatizing them to investment projects and programmes for their further development. Only then can we be sure, as they say, that after privatization, the objects will work, not be embalmed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u101	Maybe there'll be questions. You don't? Have a seat, please. Would you please tell the Special Committee on Privatization that someone is going to make a statement? Oh, no? Thank you. Question completed. This is information. We're not discussing it. Let's move on to the next one. Draft Act on the Transfer of Art Collections to State Property. Reported by the deputy head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Krotuk Vladimir Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u102	Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, the National Bank's draft Ukrainian Act on the Transfer of Art Collections to State Property, which is intended to address the issue of the legal status of the art collection of the company Gradobank, which according to the court's decision is declared bankrupt. Today, the collection has 771 copies of works of art, estimated by an expert committee of leading Ukrainian artists, the cost of the collection is $5 million,176,000,650. This collection was transferred to the National Bank of Ukraine in order to secure a loan agreement of June 4, 1996, according to which the National Bank granted a loan of 500 billion people to the City Bank. Given the percentage of the debt owed to the National Bank to the City Bank, today it is 9 million, 497,000, 72 dollars. In view of the failure of the Citybank to repay the loan in accordance with the court’s decision, the National Bank began to implement the specified collection through an auction. However, by decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of December 8, 1998, the sale of the collection was prohibited. Further to the Supreme Council’s decree of 24 May 2001, the collection was recognized as a national acquisition that was not subject to sale and attached to the state section of the Ukrainian Museum Fund. In accordance with this decree, the Supreme Council agreed with the proposal to include in the National Budget of Ukraine future payments the costs of the National Bank of Ukraine related to the transfer of the collection, and the collection itself was to be transferred to the National Museum of Art of Kiev. Until now, however, the position of this decree has not been implemented. Since the State Budget Act 2002-2003, as well as the draft State Budget Act 2004 did not provide adequate funds for the National Bank of Debt "Gradobank" and the collection, because the outstanding issues of debt repayment were not resolved, at this time it was at the National Bank where all the proper conditions for its storage were created. Given that, according to article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, property is determined solely by the laws of Ukraine, the National Bank proposes to adopt a law that will allow the State to recognise ownership of the art collection AT "Gradobank", to recognize it as a national cultural property and to transfer it to the National Bank of Ukraine. It is also proposed that expenditure amounting to PLN 9 million be foreseen in the 2004 State budget. to repay the debt owed by the Citybank Stock Exchange to the National Bank of Ukraine. The bill is supported in general by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, and in line with the stated conclusion, it can be accepted as a basis. The adoption of this law will allow a proper solution to the preservation of the collection for the State and the people and create a proper legal basis for the repayment of the debt owed to the Citybank to the National Bank of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u103	Please sign in. Light up, please. Eugene Gorenik, next Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u104	Dear reporter, your report raises a number of questions. First, the 2004 budget was set up on a legislative basis that was to be adopted by 1 July of this year. You're proposing a new legislative base and you're charging the budget with $9 million. How much does this correspond to the budget code, in principle, does it not? It's different. The question, what is the origin of this collection? Why should the state budget buy it out for the debts of the City Bank? And in general, where the bankruptcy and the debts of the City Bank were to be repaid by the State budget of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u105	Thank you. First question. With regard to the bill's deadline, we filed it on March 12th of this year. In addition, before considering the Budget Law, we made a proposal both in the Cabinet of Ministers and in the Supreme Council that this article should be foreseen. Since a draft law is currently being prepared for consideration in the second reading, we feel that this issue can be taken into account. As for the origin of the townbank collection, I've already said, and I'll say again, according to the court's ruling, the National Bank was supposed to implement this collection, which was in lieu of the National Bank, because Townbank didn't return the loan to it. In view of the fact that at first there was a ban on the sale of the collection and then on the recognition of the collection by national acquisition, we were unable to resolve the issue of closing the asset in the balance sheet of the National Bank. So now it's proposed to pass a law on the recognition of this collection by national acquisition, to return, to budget the funds to close the National Bank's asset, and these funds will be credited to the State Budget as soon as they return.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u106	Volodymyr Leonidovich, tighter, please. Vasil Calinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u107	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Dear Vladimir Leonidovich, you may not know that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is considering an alternative to the bill tabled by the Ukrainian people's deputies. Did you not consider whether you were considering bringing these bills together so that we would not consider two bills at the same time and put two bills to the vote at the same time? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u108	Thank you. I think that both the law of the National Bank and the law passed by the People's MP, they, the goal is the same, can be considered together. But I probably don't know how the Supreme Council will decide, because there's also a draft decree by the People's Deputies of the Treaty of Mironenko on the inadmissibility of the draft law that the National Bank has passed. Although, once again, the subject matter of this law is the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u109	Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u110	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. I have such a request to you -- is it still a shame to offer your views on the differences in the bill submitted by the National Bank and the National MP? And how you could settle these differences in general if you could settle them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u111	Thank you. First. The purpose of our bill and the National MP is to bring the collection of art to the state part of the museum fund in the same way. Next. The Cabinet of Ministers is proposing that the State Budget Act provide funds to close an asset in the balance sheet of the National Bank. Since the National Bank must do all of this in a transparent way, money must come. And then the asset closes. And these costs, like over-expenditures, are going to be counted into the state budget. I didn't even deny that there were even sources to which the funds could be used. According to article 5 of the Cabinet of Ministers, by September 1, the National Bank of Debt had developed a mechanism for compensation. There's no need for a mechanism. A decision is only required under the budget law. And the People's Deputy's Bill provides for the Cabinet of Ministers to provide in the government budget for 2004 the funding for the completion of the construction of the new National Art Museum of Ukraine. This also requires additional funds for the state budget. And another difference. It is proposed that the collection be passed on to the National Museum of Art. We suggest that we temporarily transfer, I emphasize, temporarily transfer to the National Bank. In connection with what? In connection with what? In view of the fact that the museums are overcrowded today, the supplies are overcrowded, and they cannot be displayed for observation. When a museum is built that proposes a grant from the budget to the third bill, please let the museum take this collection, which will be recognized as a national acquisition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u112	There's a lot else in that museum. Time's up, please sit down. Reported by Ukrainian National MP Zaklunna Mironenko Valery Gabrielna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u113	I'm afraid you haven't been very specific about what the bank's objectives are, because your law says that it is true to recognize this collection as a national asset, but to keep it in the bank permanently. That's what your law says. If you don't mind, I'll go back a little bit to the story. Indeed, in order to ensure compliance with the commitments made to the National Bank of Ukraine under a credit agreement made with it in the year 96, the Grodobank shares company transferred to the National Bank a collection of visual arts. The National Bank has allocated five million bracelets, a collection, here's a description, also a slight inaccuracies, of 782 units and a cost of 5 million dollars. 152 thousand 550 thousand. That's a small difference, that's a small difference. It all happened back then. Because Gradobank was unable to meet its obligations, there was a court, and the National Bank of Ukraine decided to sell the collection through auction. Why did he sell it then, and today he's fighting for it. Therefore, the sale of this collection was stopped. And Supreme Council Resolution 2434 of 24 May 2001 prohibited the sale and transfer of the collection to the Art Museum of Ukraine. Whenever possible, as soon as useful areas for use are provided. But given the highest level of this collection, which includes, in addition to the great names of Western artists, say Shagal, such as Kandinsky, Picasso, Renuar, Cezanne, Modigliani, Dega, Toulouse Lotrek, Pissaro, Leje, Matisse, Dali, and millions, there are a vast number of our artists, Ukrainian, outstanding, high-priority artists, including both Svetoslav and Svetlicki, and Krug, and Orlovsky, and Dubovsky, and Erdel, and Bogustenko, and Borodi, and many, many, many. Here is a list of this collection, the collection that has been evaluated, the return, was evaluated by the best specialists in our Ukraine and the country, at a cost, and the price is clearly undervalued. And given this tall one, you will remember how much we lost during the revolution, the riots, the social upheavals, just how many art paintings we lost, how much goods were brought out of Ukraine! How many people in customs are now being taken out, taken out, taken out! Today we have a real one, and perhaps one of the few opportunities to create a whole, whole, amazing exhibition of Ukrainian artists, first and foremost, who had never been in Ukraine before, there was no such whole, sequential exhibition. And here's the avant-garde, here's the development, here's the artists, let's say we have Chevchenko's paintings, why he's confused with Taras Grigorievich, but he's the Chevchenko-avangardist who's a Harkovsky artist. His painting is only in this gallery, there's no work in all of Ukraine. How can you let this go? What does it mean to give the bank for eternal preservation?Oh, my God! Well, imagine. There's a man, some rich enough man. He bought himself, for a second, well, who do you say, "Joconda." He put the Jokondu in a beautiful room, created great conditions, and every day he comes and sits and watches. And poor Joconda sees two dollar underwear instead of the eyes she's born for. All of it. That the painting lives that amazing spiritual life and is written for people and is bound to see people, to see the world around them. Depending on who comes to her, that's what she does. Remember the remarkable images that die alone. And remember the paintings that live in front of people. Therefore, I am convinced that this gallery is by no means possible. That you agree to national property? Yes! First and foremost. An exhibition hall is being constructed and the Government needs to help, and our country needs to help build a hall. Thanks to Dmitri Vladimirovich Tobacco, he promised this money and it will be delivered, it will be a security facility, it will be created in all conditions, both in safety and in exhibition options. It's possible to take those collapses that are in the museums out there and finally show them to people. People have worn out in a beautiful way, and that's what needs to be done. And if you're serious about some figures that you haven't added, I've named the 5 million bracelets that the bank has given, but now the bank on the letters that I have signed with Stelma, signed with Yushchenko, the bank at the time of solving this problem in the Supreme Council has demanded that we have 6 million 400,000. So far, nine million with extra. So the bank wants to take the painting gallery in its pocket today, and keep the same money from the state. Here's the point of this law, please. I can't agree with that. No normal person who has missed the beauty that we have and who is eager to see is likely to agree. I would very much like the matter to be resolved in the way I speak, because this is the face of Kiev, which is the face of Ukraine. People will finally be able to come and see the unscrupulous. Come alone, show the children to bring grandchildren. And for the future, it is the glory of Ukraine. And it's not some individual official, or a cabinet, or some organization, but it's the glory and wealth of the whole country. What's more, for the last time, paintings don't age like people, and over the years, they become more beautiful, more expensive and more beautiful. And I think that, over the time that this train is going to last between the bank and the Supreme Council, nevertheless, the museum, the painting has traveled many times, and it will become more beautiful when it will be able to come out in front of the viewers and the Ukrainian people, and I am not even talking about the exhibition and the opportunity to work because of the amazing prospects and opportunities. Thank you. I told you everything I could.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u114	I think it's such a thorough report, no questions asked. Have a seat, please. The committee reports to the head of the Subcommittee on Culture and Spirituality, Zulínský Mikola Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! First of all, I fully share my position with my colleague Valeria the Conspiracy. What's the matter? The failure to implement the Supreme Council’s decree of May 24, 2001. Everything was foreseen there. But unfortunately, today, from the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, we ask you to support this as a law, that is, a change in the status that would allow you to meet those requirements that today are simply caused by national interests. The point is that this collection is really a unique collection. It has no equal like collections in Ukraine, and I think it's in Europe. It needs to be preserved. It is the responsibility of our State, our authority, to preserve it. It's already recognized by the national acquisition of our decision, it's already decided that it should go to the National Art Museum of Ukraine, it's logical, it's essentially what we call a museum fund. The perspective opens up for the exhibition, and that's exactly what we can do, even in our circumstances. But, of course, there's a bigger perspective there -- building a new facility for the National Art Museum. This time. The other one. A reconstruction that has already been made. Two. As for the National Bank. We understand the interests of the National Bank, because this collection, as a default to the National Bank of Ukraine. That's why it's supposed to be 9 million. With some money, we need to get out of the government budget to compensate for the costs incurred by the National Bank of Ukraine. Is that what this has to do? You also have to do it. But we believe that this collection should go by law to the National Museum of Art of Ukraine. With people seeing it to make it truly a national acquisition. So I suggest you, your honor, support this bill. I repeat, it is not a conflict with the National Bank, it is simply a decision of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, it is a law that corresponds, I repeat, to the interests of the Ukrainian State and corresponds to that national policy to preserve the artistic wealth that we have in Ukraine and which is set out in this collection. That's all I wanted to say and I'd like to ask that we have a draft of a law that was introduced by our colleague, Valeria Zaklonna-Mironenko, the Supreme Council has supported. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u116	Will there be questions? Vasil Vasilovich, please, Gavriluk. Then there's Kafarsky. School after him and Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u117	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Tell me, please, this is where we heard the opinion of the National Bank, the authors of the bill of your committee. What did the Ministry of Culture think about this and did you have joint meetings, did you invite the Ministry of Culture on this issue? Because we have so often, we ask questions, we know that there is often such a thing as why people who are directly engaged in and responsible for culture forget to ask them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u118	Thank you. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality was held together with the Ministry of Culture and Art, there is a deputy minister of culture and art, he can answer. But our position.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u119	We'll ask him. Please, Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u120	Dearly beloved, I am absolutely in solidarity with the fact that we must support the bill proposed by our colleague. Absolutely. It's not a topic for discussion. Because when the bank, with all my deep respect for the financial situation and the financial policy of the State, gives and closes its own steps, which are no longer in Ukraine, it is simply impossible to accept that. I have a purely technical question. For the first reading, I think we'll support this bill. But in order for us not to be distributed on second and third readings in different angles, how do you feel about, for example, taking the position of an art museum out of this bill. We will keep the collection on the condition that our distinguished colleague says that the museum is promised money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u121	I'll tell you what. Our Supreme Council decree of 245 May 2001 stipulates that the entire collection should go to the museum fund of Ukraine. One way or another, it should become state property, not owned by the National Bank of Ukraine. So I don't think it's that fundamental, although I repeat, we've come out of what interest to adopt the law as soon as we adopt the law, and this collection will be the acquisition of the National Museum of Art of Ukraine, the National Museum of Art of Ukraine, along with the Ministry of Culture and Arts, organizes an exhibition of those works so that we can see them. I think that access to the National Bank of Ukraine is not as wide as access to the National Museum of Art. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u122	Please, Andrew School. The next is Vladimir Kafarsky. Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u123	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Actually, I would like to emphasize to the honourable reporter that one thing is when the paintings get into state funds and the other thing is when they're constantly able to exhibit themselves. So I don't think we can break down the financing of the building and the building of a museum or the construction of a new exhibition complex with these paintings. Because here we are going to get these problems all the time in Ukraine. There's a problem with the Lviv National Picture Gallery, where there's virtually no way to get pictures out of the spares. That's why I'm afraid. We usually support, and I think in the first, second and third readings. Here we have to put on this mechanism of constant exposure and these paintings, and all the rest of the acquisitions of Ukrainian national art. So I think it's even strange that we have this question in this room. Is that why you feel this way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u124	Thank you. I'm completely in solidarity with you. I'll say that when I was in the government, we proposed and there's a proposal for the President of Ukraine to make this arsenal a military building across the street from Kiev-Pecher Lavra to turn it into a so-called art arsenal. There you can place a whole series of museums. For example, we don't have a museum of Ukrainian icon, we don't have a museum of private collections, a museum of folk or naive? We don't have art and so on. And this museum complex could be created, and we could get a lot of the art acquisitions that are in the reserves. Because Ukraine is in a critical state today, we have less than 5 percent of what we have in the reserves today, we show at exhibitions or in permanent exhibitions. So I think it's very important to look at all of this in the context of building a new museum and reconstructing an existing National Art Museum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u125	Vladimir Kafarsky. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u126	Mikolo Grigorovich, I know that you're a person who not only knows a deep culture, but also creates a Ukrainian culture. And I have two questions. I can't understand how this big collection of the world came to be, and it's become something of a non-state kind. What mechanisms were there, what happened as it happened? And the second question. I know that museums, especially regional, district museums, are now wiping out art, paintings, icons and so on. Should the committee ask questions and examine the situation locally? Because they appear miraculously by some kind of collection of private individuals from our museums, which were state-owned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u127	I very much share your concern and I can tell you with full responsibility that the situation today with the creation of a single register of artistic values in Ukraine is so urgent that it should become perhaps a special object of funding. It's supposed to be a government order to create that single register, so we can count on everything we have today, because you know what kind of thefts from our museums, they don't open up, security today in a terrible state, it doesn't meet the basic standards of preservation of museum values. And as this collection grew, I think it's a special study. It turns out, there were huge costs to buy these values, but if we already have these values, these values, we have to keep them, and realize that this collection is going to be created, maybe I don't know, it's going to have to have some unique value in order to actually form this collection. Therefore, our obligation is to preserve their value forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u128	Time's up, please sit down. Deputy Minister from the government, please. _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you. Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs! The question, in fact, is one or the difference between these two bills: Who will belong to this collection, and who will expose it? I'd like to remind you once again of what I called Mikola Grigorovich Joulinsky. In paragraph 3 of the Supreme Council’s decree of 24 May 2001, the Cabinet of Ministers recorded the measures envisaged by this decree, including the transfer of a collection of art belonging to the Citybank, to the National Museum of Art, the decree of the Supreme Council. And I'd like to ask the national MPs to step out of this very decision that you've already adopted. On the other hand, the point is that we may not be able to imagine the level of this collection in our mass and in the media. It seems to us that there's something called "The City Bank" that might be able to transfer to the National Bank some kind of debt repayment or something. In fact, the Citybank collection is equal to or on many artistic issues higher than all the collections of the National Museum of Art. There is no work in the National Art Museum for Modillani, Chagala, Toulouse Lotreka, and so on. So close this collection, which, I say again, is equal or another museum, another museum is a national artist, not some provincial museum. And to close this collection to a facility called Nazbank, I think it's immoral. Moreover, any collection requires scientific processing, cataloging, and all that is in the world. Only experts, the National Art Museum, can do that. Today, the issue of storing this collection has been raised, and I want to inform the distinguished national MPs that the National Museum of Art has now repaired a specially prepared room for that, if there is a positive decision, it is ready to do so. Moreover, while this reconstruction and everything else is going on, the National Museum is ready to make a deal with Nazbank about what the museum is passing on to exhibit at Nazbank's premises for a while to exhibit there. We don't mind that. But ownership should be the National Museum of Art after passing it on to the National Museum of Art to publish this exhibition, make it a big one, invite a big press. That's the only way the Ministry of Culture sees this issue. Of course, and put the money to Nazbank, which is where it's put it. But this is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u129	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, the next Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u130	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the noble Ukrainian people. Today you've seen the National Bank project, which I'm ashamed that Nazbank has submitted. It's a shame, and I'm talking to Sergey Tihypak. Mr. Sergei, you're an intelligent man. Call off this bill immediately and don't embarrass yourself any further. And I pay my deep respects to our colleague, Mironenko, that she correctly placed the accents in her project, because those artistic values that are collected in this museum are really too serious. This is both Chagall, and Kandinsky, and Picasso, and Renoir, Cezanne, Modillani, Dega, Pissaro, Lie, Matisse, El Salvador, Dali, and the famous Ukrainian and Russian artists Svetoslavski, Svetlecki, Gruh and others, of course, when was the last time we paid attention to culture? When have we spent the last five or even 10 years on building a museum? This was not the case in Ukraine’s history. And thank God that today there is a substitute minister of culture who has correctly placed the emphasis and emphasized that it is a regular object. Consider how the collection was obtained. Who knows what its value is today? What's the initial cost? We don't know. I don't think this collection is worth anything. What a fantasy it would have been to write that we would keep it in the National Bank forever and keep it from the public eye! Today, we can treat the author differently, the one who bought these paintings. This was the deputy to the former calling of Gerdicchi. He was arrested in Germany. We can relate differently, but we have to thank him for not letting these things escape from Ukraine, at least. And, thin or poor, they stayed here, in Ukraine. And our job today is to support all the committees, all the national MPs unanimously to adopt this draft law, both in the first and second readings right now, so that we can predict these unfortunate 9 million to be built. And that will be the rise and tourist attraction of Ukraine. And what Joulinsky said, these proposals, I'd like them to come to the head of the government. And then Mr. Janukovic wouldn't be taking care of the diapers, and in his own language, he would know that not only diapers exist, and then he would know that there are both Svetoslavsky and Svetliecki and Gruk and Orlovsky and Dubovski and Erdeli and Bogazov and many other authors. This will broaden the horizon and the government as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u131	Please, Mikhail Kosov. Next solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u132	Mikhailo Kosov, Victor Yushchenka faction "Our Ukraine", the Reforms and Order Party. Dear colleagues! First of all, let's not use, dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, such a word as "sorom," let's say, thank you, thank you very much, gentlemen of the bankers and the previous, and the present ones that you have collected and saved for Ukraine a unique collection that, according to the deputy minister, exceeds its value and breadth even the present-day National Art Museum of Ukraine. That's the first one. The other one. The fact that the first bankers have gathered and the others want to save themselves shows that they are understood not only on coins but also on high artistic values. Next. Of course, the bank needs to pay back this nominal financial expense, which they have become owners of this collection. But the question continues: "Where can I keep it?".. You know, I wouldn't say that if you were to speak from this point of view, let's say one or the other place to store this unique collection is better. Simply, gentlemen bankers, Vladimir Leonidovich, the National Museum is still more natural. It's a real place for a museum like this. Because there's really specialists there, there's an opportunity to explore this collection. Another thing that comes up, and here I am to you, Leonid Mikhailovich, don't let God scatter this collection. Look, there was a collection from the Cachanovka of Chernigovsky, from Ternovsky's estate. Can you say that it exists today in our museums as a whole? Doesn't it exist? And if we disperse this collection, we're going to do huge damage to Ukrainian culture. It has its history, it must be preserved as it has reached us, it must always have its place in our history. And the last. It's not going to be closed. Listen, if we are in our museums in Ukraine, let's say we are showing only three percent of the collections in museums such as Kiev or Lviv, then what to say. And in Ukraine, it doesn't go beyond 15, so that's the last requirement I wanted to make. It should be available for visitors. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u133	Please, Yuri Salamatin. Next Yavorowski. School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u134	Julia Timoshenko's block. I wanted first, however, to draw the attention of both the radio and the fellow national deputies to what had arisen must be addressed. We have a problem in Ukraine in general with art and its preservation. And in this situation, we have really this stick with two ends, on the one hand they've saved, and on the other hand they want to keep it, they're meant for bankers. And here, I don't want to look at the issue of conscience and morality, I don't think that people who are financially involved, these concepts they leave only for the home and for the family, all the rest of it after. Obviously, it's more convenient for the National Bank to keep these paintings to itself, but is it convenient for us, or is it convenient for the State, of course not. We must and must care for the increase, the enrichment, the multiplication of state art funds. Of course, this collection should definitely pass. Again, we need to know that this collection is not worth talking about, because art is priceless, but we have too much regret about all these world auctions and the imagery of the impressionists is going to be at the highest price right now. I don't like the concept of fashion art, but it's so, unfortunately, the term used, the term used, it's actually the way it is. And so I can honestly say that I am a great admirer and a lover of abstract art and impression, like every revolutionary, I love impressionism. So I think it would even be worth talking about a special museum that would collect this collection and hold it. There's even more that the National Bank could do, finance, sponsor the building of this museum. And then for all eternity, for all. Ukrainian history would be recorded by who did it, and we would all remember it, and our children would remember it. It would be the best gesture that would increase the fame and popularity of the bankers who did it, and prove that the notion of morality and honor exists even in these financial circles, at least in Ukrainian. We could prove it. Because in this decline in Ukrainian art today, I say once again, not the creative process, but the process of saving, the process of exhibiting, the process of bringing the painting to the viewer, it's just an extraordinary situation. I'm not talking about any other art, let's talk about another conversation where our bankers could join. But here to make this colossal beautiful gesture, I think it would be appreciated not only by national MPs, not only by voters, but by Ukrainian history, it was with the highest preference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u135	Thank you. No one insists on the performances anymore? Please, Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, I will literally try to save myself in one minute, thesis. We are considering two bills today, so let's talk about the bill. First and foremost. In my view, both initiators of these bills said that they wanted this to remain in Ukraine and that the Ukrainian people could benefit from it. So in the bill of our distinguished colleague Valerie Gavrylovna, I read it, and I saw it. Unfortunately, in the bill proposed by the National Bank, I did not read it. Therefore, I think that this bill is worth considering when it has provisions that will be written, how can a regular person see this, how will the price of the ticket be priced, and who will issue them, and how will the National Bank provide public access to these national values? If there is an answer to that question, then there is a point to speak. If there is no answer to these questions, the rest is simply the motivation for the desire to take national values and close them. And in fact, some chosen category of people will admire them, enjoy what they are in Ukraine, and therefore you can look at them. All the rest of Ukraine just have to be jealous of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u137	Please, Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u138	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I, as a deputy and as a man, support the proposal made by Valeria Gabrielna in this rostrum. And she only convinced me with one phrase: "People are wearing out beautiful." And I think that's what's important about her proposal that we have to support. And this is where I want to end this part of my speech. And then I'd like to talk about the next thing. There was a demonstration in Kiev of people who remained faithful to the ideas of the great October. In the street of Gruszewski, a group of young people attacked the elderly in front of the stadium. These were veterans from the Obolon district of Kiev who walked under the red flags. Young people tried to beat them up and spread flags. The four men attacked by the police were these veterans. They're prozombed by anti-communist propaganda by people from the Ternopil region. Several of the students with the cards they presented from the Ternopil Experimental Institute of Pedagogical Education, and one person had a passport, a resident of the village of Uste Greene Monastery district of Ternopil. I don't emphasize the names of these people, even though they're famous. They're transferred to the hands of law enforcement agencies. And under the leadership of the deputy chief of the Pecher district office of the U.S. Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev, Libeki Vladislav Anatoliyovich, they were delivered to the Pecherský rajvidde. And now they're being questioned. So I would like to ask you, Your Honor Hennady Andriyovich, to consider this part of my statement as a parliamentary request and to refer it to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine and the Ministry of Internal Affairs so that this investigation on this unfortunate case, a fascist case, was properly conducted and that there should be a report in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u139	Thank you. These students weren't brought in by the nerds, you know, from Ternopolish? Have a seat, please. Have a seat. It's all clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u140	I want to emphasize once again, the students of the Ternopil Experimental Institute of Pedagogical Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u141	Well, don't the nerds have anything to do with it? Oh, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u142	Perhaps there are others, but today I testify to what I have seen with my own eyes on the documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u143	Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the next question. With regard to the vote on the question under consideration, the vote will take place on the day of the vote under the Rules. The next issue is the draft law amending Ukraine's Land Code on the right to use land permanently. He will report to the First Deputy Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, Garbus Mikhailo Jurkovic. Please proceed quickly with the reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u144	Dear national deputies, invited! Ukraine’s draft law to amend Ukraine’s Land Code on the right to property and the right to use land on a permanent basis should restore the rights of organizations, enterprises and institutions of persons with disabilities and religious organizations to determine them as subjects of ownership of land in Ukraine and subjects of the right to use land on a permanent basis, since Ukraine’s current Earth Code has such a legal gap. Today, the current norm allows organizations, businesses, and institutions with disabilities and religious organizations to use the land only on lease grounds. The size of the rent is usually disproportionately high for the renter as a non-profit organization. There are currently social security institutions in Ukraine: disabled and elderly buildings, 776 children's homes, which are 9,000 hectares; 11.4,000 religious organizations, which are 8.6,000 hectares; and a large part of them are agricultural land, which is used to provide their own needs. The bill therefore proposes to extend the right of individuals to the permanent use of land as defined in article 92 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, namely: to supplement article 92, paragraph 2, of subparagraph (b), "religious organizations"; subparagraph (c), "civil organizations of persons with disabilities of Ukraine, their enterprises, associations, institutions and organizations". The deletion of the words "for entrepreneurship" from the first part of article 82 of the Ukrainian Code of Land gives the right to acquire designated categories of land users in accordance with applicable legislation. In view of the importance of addressing the problems of social organizations of persons with disabilities and religious organizations regarding the acquisition of property rights and the right to use land permanently, I ask that the bill be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u145	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Please, Vasil Antonovich, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u146	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished colleagues. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations at its meeting considered and discussed the draft bill. The aim, as already highlighted, is to empower organizations, businesses, and institutions with disabilities of Ukraine and religious organizations, as well as to remove restrictions on legal persons to acquire land ownership. The committee notes that the bill will expand the list of entities entitled to use land on a permanent basis and allow legal persons to acquire land not only for business purposes. [[Article 92]] [[Article 82]] The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to adopt the draft law in the first reading as a basis. Ukraine's Finance Ministry, considering that the proposed changes do not require additional budget costs, supports the bill. As a result of the review, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the registration bill No. 4023 as a basis for the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u147	Thank you. Short-term procedure: two-for-two-again. Please, Valery Suškevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u148	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pay particular attention to the fact that the bill before you today has the right to restore to the public organizations of disabled persons established today enterprises, institutions and organizations the right of permanent use of land and land of state and municipal property. This right in its time was practically fixed as long - term use for a term of three to twenty - five years in the Codex earth and in the 1992 edition. However, when the new Earth Code was adopted in 2002, this rule was unfortunately not taken into account. You remember a rather extreme situation in which the new Earth Codex was adopted and what happened was that you forgot about the disabled. So often, unfortunately, it does. I would like to say that this standard is extremely social. For example, the Ukrainian Association of the Blind and the Ukrainian Association of the Deaf have 70 years of history. They were using these lands and suddenly they were virtually deprived of this right and thus the situation was extremely unfair. So now when we look at this bill, it's about restoring social justice and the rights that people with disabilities had in terms of what they had in terms of what they were dealing with in areas of land that had the nature of businesses, social organizations and people with disabilities. I also draw attention to the proposed removal bill from article 82 of the Earth Code, which regulates the conditions for legal persons to acquire ownership rights to land the words "for the pursuit of entrepreneurial activity". So ownership could be acquired only for entrepreneurial activities. What if there is a club of the blind or the deaf? What can people with disabilities and other social institutions do? They are required to engage in entrepreneurial activities, only then will they be granted this right of ownership. This was certainly a nonsensence that seemed unwarranted and forcefully cruel to these businesses. I, you know, would like to thank, first of all, the State Commission for its socially oriented position, our coalition government, that the issues related to the social protection of persons with disabilities are being resolved, and that the rights that our people with disabilities have been deprived of under impossible circumstances. Again, I'm talking about that the project doesn't need any additional financial costs, and it's supported by our professional committee on pensioners, veterans and disabled people. I very much hope and ask you to support all the factions, the committees of this bill, as very socially significant. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u149	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u150	Yuri Carmazin, Victor Yuschenka's constituency block, Our Ukraine, Solidarity Party, Fatherland's Defenders' Party. Dear National Deputies! Of course, the Earth Code is not integrated as always, changes and additions, although this is followed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine's signature, and in principle he might look, he would be obliged to look at all issues that are not resolved in the Earth Code. But we're going to thank God for liking to sign this bill, because there are positive things here, especially in the 82nd article. The 82nd article of the Earth Code proposes that the words "for entrepreneurship" be discarded. That is to say, legal persons who are founded by Ukrainian citizens or legal persons may acquire land ownership in the event of purchase of a contract of sale, donation, mines, other civil law agreements, introduction of land of its founder to a statutory fund, acceptance of an inheritance, creation of other grounds provided for by law. That is, we are approaching Europe in this regard, and we will be fully in line with European standards. With regard to the amendments to article 92 of the Code of Land, it is very positive that the end of the right to use the land of state and municipal property on a permanent basis will be acquired by religious organizations as well as by social organizations of persons with disabilities and enterprises or by the unification of the institution and organization. This is where there are many problems with religious organizations. They're insulted, they're made to be humiliated, and this refers entirely to all religions, at least I'm familiar with these cases. And the measures of cities, others are always dependent, depending on support, so when we write this in article 92 of the Earth Code, we will support our church, we will support our religious organizations, we will support our people with disabilities, and we will do everything we can to make their lives easier and make them more healthy, and we will work for the state. I think that this law can be passed both in the first and second readings at the same time, there are no warnings about this law, from the point of view of law and there are no legislative acts. Another issue is that we need to control those enterprises where we don't make any changes, businesses, institutions, organizations that belong to state and municipal property, to which the land is issued for permanent use. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u151	Please, Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u152	The faction of Ukraine's "United" Social Democratic Party. The bill provides for amendments to Ukraine’s Land Code, which ensures, first, the restoration of the right of religious organizations, public organizations, disabled persons, their enterprises, associations, institutions and organizations to determine their rights of permanent use. The other one. Removing restrictions on legal persons established by Ukrainian citizens or legal persons in Ukraine in their acquisition of property land. The faction of Ukraine's "United" Social-Democratic Party believes that this legislative proposal deserves support. The right to use the land on a permanent basis by religious organizations as well as by public organizations of persons with disabilities, their enterprises, institutions, organizations were provided for the drafting of the Ukrainian Code of Land, in particular its seventh article. And it is clear that with the adoption of Ukraine’s new Earth Code, despite the fact that two years have passed since then, such a right should be restored. As for the removal of restrictions on legal persons established by Ukrainian citizens or legal persons in the acquisition of land into property, and such restrictions are the obligation to use such land solely for entrepreneurial activities, in this case the parity of the listed entities with other entities in the acquisition of land ownership rights to which only restrictions are not imposed is ensured. Excluding subjects of foreign origin Secondly, it is ensured that part of the first article 82 of the Ukrainian Land Code is consistent with part one of the first article 90 of the Code, which states the rights of landowners. These include the right to sell or otherwise alienate land, to rent, mortgage, inheritance, to own land; to use in an orderly manner the land’s available land, commonly used fossils, peats, forest plantings, water objects, and other useful properties of the land; and to build buildings, factories, and other buildings and buildings. At the same time, we consider it appropriate to propose in Ukraine's laws on freedom of conscience and religious organizations and the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine to provide for appropriate rules to determine that the use of land and the acquisition of ownership rights to land, appropriate objects, i.e. religious organizations, civil organizations of persons with disabilities in Ukraine, their enterprises, institutions and organizations are carrying out the order established by Ukraine's Earth Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u153	Please, Andrew School. Finish
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u154	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. I would like to point out that this bill, especially what concerns the allocation of land to religious communities and institutions, is, in principle, always worth thinking about. In this situation, when we look at the bill, we always look at the surface. So you have to take a look at the depths. Who now owns church property? Who owns the church? Not the church. It's a community. And here the transfer of land under the church of the religious community is always a positive step. But on the other hand, while we're dealing with what's on this land? So when it's a museum value, when it's a museum exhibit, how are we going to do it? So it's state property, it's on a private land or on a land that belongs to a separate religious community. So I wouldn't want this law to fly past our attention very quickly, and the waves of a certain euphoria were approved, and then we would have problems. He needs careful research. So I'd just like to take a step forward and take very reasonable steps to get here. And so the maximum we can talk about is the first reading. So that we can still prepare those base-resource moments that wouldn't allow us to have in the future those colossals that immediately arise at first sight. So I'd like both the national MPs and the radio listeners, and in this situation, they're also our voters, and then they're going to be in the process of implementing this law. So I would like them to be very careful and considerate. So these bills, in general, need to be progressively passed. I'm not going to talk about procedural issues here, not in a shortcut, but in a revolving way, you can talk about it in a nutshell, but you can go back a couple of times to get past the old one, and it's a very successful seven-time measurement and once a cutoff. That's why I think we should do this. For the rest, those types of people with disabilities are meant, and we just always need to know that healthy people need to care not only for their health but for the health of the nation as a whole, for the health of those who are most affected, and so we must and should care for them. But again, I'm saying we had problems with the budget here. You know, in the budget, this funding chain is somehow gone. I don't know who's here. You can blame everyone, but if the vote were collective. And thank God that there is another reading, where we will definitely bring it in and correct it. So I'd like this to go on with this progressive development in the first, second and third readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u155	Thank you. Two in favour, two in favour. The question has been considered. As for the vote, it will take place in accordance with the Rules. Now, let's move on to the Miscellaneous. Please explain. So, instead of Pullibok, do we have Red or Kostinuk? Who? Please. Please, Basil Red. Next Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, national deputies! On Wednesday, Parliamentary hearings were held in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the theme "The Spiritual Crisis in Ukraine". Unfortunately, this too important session and discussion did not take place in direct broadcasting. It was not heard by our voters, and unfortunately, the highest authorities did not participate in these very important parliamentary hearings. I also signed up for the speech, and unfortunately, I didn't do it at all for these reasons, and so I'd like to take this moment to quote you a very concise message from one of our voters, Mr. Shevchuk of the Plain, who he put in the press and asked him to make a statement. This is about the insolent nationwide propaganda of pseudoculture on the daybooks for schoolchildren under the direction of the minister of education of Kremen. It is the school, as Mr. Shevchuk rightly believes, that the spiritual crisis is beginning in our society. He writes that we, parents, forgive in word, bark, and the educational caravan of Mr. Kremen before, in infinite quantity producing on the pages of our dear schoolchildren the shameless backs of Hollywood prostitutes and drug addicts. Sorry for the style, but my patience as a schoolboy’s father ran out. Because all of my efforts to teach my daughters restraint, virtue is now overshadowed by the diversified images of some intravert on the pages of the diary or Hollywood movies on TV. So now the family, the school, the television is like the well-known Swan, the Cancer, and the Puppy, who are trying unsuccessfully to move our education ideology. Moreover, many Ukrainian schools have become centers of propaganda and drug trafficking. We have a lot of schoolchildren shut up their father's belts for all kinds of damn herbs. And they're getting regular drug addicts. Would it not be better for our minister of culture and education to do more useful things than promote popmasculture and thoroughly eradicate drug abuse and crime in schools and higher education institutions? But that is not the main purpose of my letter. We're all talking about Ukrainian education. But is our education really Ukrainian? Because the ideology of our education introduced by Mr. Kremen is essentially American, not Ukrainian. And this ideology promotes only Western values — the worship of money, power, fornication, and power. There's nothing actually Ukrainian about this education. Do you expect the minister to print on our daily pages instead of Britney Spears a portrait of the half-breeder Condratuk, the project of which was followed by the Apollo space program and the moon trip? Nothing like that. Americans can come to Poltava to honor the birthplace of Condratuk. Our minister doesn't need that. Or will you see on the student journals a portrait of the unforgettable Peter Kalnishewsky, the educated and noblest man in Europe, the greatest reformer of the nation’s economy, saving Ukraine, and for what was he confined to 36 years in a terrible coma on Solovka? Or is Mr. Kremen going to print information on the journals about who was named Eagles Airport in Paris? Or will the journals tell the truth about who planned it, and the famine in Ukraine? Or perhaps finally the famous scientist Victor Mousekov? It's not all there. Because Mr. Cremen is more likely to hear a brutal, nasty message: L. Cruz's sexual affair with Tom Cruz and Vanishing Sky. I'm done. So our electorate thinks that education is not essentially Ukrainian. Both television and the press. This is what I wanted to point out as a national MP, that the spiritual crisis in Ukraine begins with education. Until it becomes Ukrainian, as long as the spiritual crisis in society is not destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, please follow the Rules. Vladimir Cherniak, next Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u158	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. With sadness, pain, and shame, I went out to this rostrum. Almost all this week, the Supreme Council did not work in connection with events in Donetsk. What happened in Donetsk is impossible in any country of the world: neither in Asian nor in Latin or in African except for Ukraine. The government destroyed the meeting with the head of the "Our Ukraine" faction, Victor Yushchenk. The central government gave the command, and the local government broke down. It's a violation of the law, of the Constitution, of all civilized rules of communication of power behind opposition. Any deputy has the right to hold meetings in any of Ukraine's inhabited areas, especially the faction's head, among other things, the former prime minister. I was in Poland, and I talked to three former prime ministers. What a privilege these people are surrounded by. This shows the non-civilization of existing power. What's that about? In the face of opposition. The authorities view opposition as an internal enemy. And the inner enemy must be destroyed. The opposition is the one who has a position. By the way, the opposition is the most reliable resistance to power, because it points to flaws, mistakes, alternatives, and an unsettled civilized dialogue between power and opposition. Don’t hesitate to react to the dowry’s events. That's why the faction of our Ukraine insists that we react. The question is not why the opposition is blocking the rostrum, the question is why most people don't vote for the Home Secretary to come here, the head of the Security Service, the minister of education, information to give. I don’t remember ever having to vote as a deputy when other deputies ask for a minister. Again, this is the uncivilization of communication between the majority and the minority. If more than 200 deputies insist on this, most do not want to vote. Why? Again, because Banking gave the majority a command not to do so. Why did she give the Banking team? Because if the Minister of Internal Affairs comes here, then he'll tell those who will give him the command, "Boys, I won't do your command anymore." That's the root of the problem. It's obvious. But we need to find a normal, civilized way out of the situation, if there is a violation, we need to respond to it and move on. We need the Supreme Council to work, not turn it upside down, and we don't have to make the sacrifices that are being made by those who want to destroy Yashchenk right now. And the last. I want to give advice, free advice to the authorities. Ignore Yushchenka, if you do this, her ratings will increase to a lesser extent, and you're doing the same thing that Yeltsin used to do with Gorbachev. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u159	Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov. Next Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u160	Commie faction, Rodionov. Dear radios, those in the hall! Of course, today's a big day, I'd like to start with a good one. But I'm going back to what my colleague at the Solomatine faction was talking about. What's more, we two people's deputies ended up in this sherengue and in this column and we saw how this provocation took place. It might not be too much to say, but if those present heard cave hate for the veterans that these young people are proclaiming, I want to tell you that there will be no future in Ukraine. That's the first one. Now, I'd like to say, if they don't like Soviets, well, remember, we can take our bourgeois newspapers. Let us remember, in 1989, Albert Gorr, Vice-President of the States, said that Ukraine was 7th in the developed world. It was forgotten that by such per capita indicators as steel, iron, oil, electricity, agriculture, oil, milk, meat, sugar, Ukraine was the first, second among the countries of England, France, Japan and Germany. Well, we'll take the last ten years, you're all witnesses here. Of course, I'm far from thinking about teaching someone. But once again, what do we have in the industry? Two or three downs. In some industries, such as heavy machinery, which is easy at eight, it can be said in electronics a hundred times that industrial capacity has already been destroyed. What do we have in agriculture? In agriculture, small-scale production has been dumped for a hundred years. Next step, it'll be final, that's when we start trading the land. That's when we're done. You all know the results of the people's lives. And so far, it's no secret to anyone. But I want to finish by saying they say they belong to a famous politician, now deceased, the kingdom of Heaven, Anatoly Sobczak. Did he say don't let God be hanged for what we did to this great country? Here's an optimistic note for those who have destroyed socialism for those who are still making fun of the people of Ukraine, and I would like to end it. And for those who have defended Ukraine, for those who have been wrongly subjected and are now being insulted, I want to wish them health and happiness, and wish them to remember tonight the best songs that they have ever sang in their time and that they are worthy of. I also have one for my dead father and two brothers, it's a great song about Dnipro, I end up, "In the coastal vineyards, in high circles and we loved and grew." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u161	Please, Yuri Carmazin, next Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u162	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Our Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! You hear every time in the Ministry of Defense that there are reforms that will shorten the Armed Forces either twice or three times, no one knows. The State Reform and Development Programme of the Armed Forces until 2005 has remained a good goal. The above military and political leadership has once again proved unable to bring about real transformations in the military sphere and transferred this responsibility to the Ministry of Defence. The real reason for the change in military leadership is to redistribute the spheres of influence in military power and redistribution of spheres into material reserves. I propose the leadership of the Supreme Council, Hennadia Andriyovich, to you, and to all the people's deputies immediately invite the President of Ukraine to hold a closed meeting of the Supreme Council on the state of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, to which the Supreme Commander-in-Chief is to be invited, who is to be directly responsible for the state of the Armed Forces and for his inaction, which has created conditions for the destruction of the national army. It is the personnel policy that the President conducted and conducted in the military sphere. And his incompetence in resolving these issues has been the main cause of today’s state of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I think it's for the Supreme Council to approve the program that the government is to develop. Dear National Deputies! Nearly 50-60 percent of government property in the Department of Defense is not used for purpose. Just so you know. The 90 aircraft that the Armed Forces have received, only 10-15 percent can transport cargo today. Businessmen are deliberately underestimating the cost of operating hours from $900 to $450 to $500, almost double. Human policy. There are 17 generals in the state reserve today. They don't take responsibility. The situation is virtually out of control. What about the young officers? 10-15 percent are released after the first year of service. Another 10 percent after three years, 15-20 years after five years. We need to change our approach to the military education system. Dear National Deputies! All the situations that are taking place today are reflected in the army, showing that the military has not yet released the armed forces from performing its own functions. This is about 30 to 50 percent of military service hours are spent on various farm jobs. If some jobs are translated into special structures, there will be a serious economy. There will also be an economy in the reform of the system of material and technical security for all, I stress, all the force structures that are blocked, despite the repeated guidance of the President of Ukraine. And that's exactly where the state cuts are going to be, and the economy is going to be for the state. Thank you. I'd like to give it, consider it my request to the government -- the state of the Armed Forces, the preparation of the program and the control of the material and technical security system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u163	Mikola Haritonovich Shershun, next Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u164	Mikola Shershun, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! Today, I want to express my concern and concern about the facts that can be seen as an attempt to consolidate post-Norbyl rehabilitation programmes for affected people and territories. For example, the annual amount of funding was given to them, for example, for the Plain area under the article on housing for citizens affected by an accident at CHEUS, not only are they not carried out, but they have been reduced by nearly one and a half million dollars in total. At the same time, more than three thousand victims are waiting in line. And there's almost 700,000 of them. families that include the first category of Chernobyl invalids. And their nation is obliged to provide housing during the year. The trend towards ignoring Chernobyl’s legislation has been under way since last year. At that time, only 50,000 were allocated to the planned one and a half million dollars for these purposes from the State budget. That's right. The other one. Out of all the affected areas without any justification, nearly eight million dollars were removed from the article "Comprehensive Health Care." This has been done when tender procedures have been conducted, agreements have been concluded, and medical equipment has been left at the health care facility. Who will be responsible for such thoughtless decisions, since by doing so, instead of promoting authority on the ground, central authorities are practically setting it up by hostage making inadequate financial decisions. And the last. This is about transferring almost 90 percent of the cost of Chernobyl programs from the Ministry of Labour to Ukraine and other departments. Today, we can see clearly how Mr. Reva’s dedication to emergency situations works actively and qualitatively. That's commendable. But the question arises: What kind of authority will now handle the issue of the Chernobylites if one is obliged to do so and the other has the means to do so? However, there are only 184 million available in the 2004 budget for the 2004 Chernobyl programmes of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. A bracelet less than this year was allocated only to the Plains region. That's why I'm asking the government, Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovitch of Ukraine, to come forward with proposals to the President of the State for the creation of a separate Chernobyl office. This was highlighted in the recommendations of parliamentary hearings, a requirement and a unanimous view of the Chernobyl Disaster Elimination Committee. Already prepared, by the way, an appropriate statement for the Prime Minister. Finally, this proposal is addressed to the committee by the heads of the district administrations. This decision needs to be made as soon as possible, or we will receive a turnaround of official bureaucracy, a failure to meet the obligations of the Chernobylites, and a social surge in the affected regions. Please consider my statement an official request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. And thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u165	Igor Šurma. Next Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u166	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners. The question I want to raise today is the environmental safety of the Lviv region. The whole point is that there's an experiment in the area, and in particular in the Goodwill field, about burning neutralized goudrons in the coal tank. I want to remind you that neutralized gourds are the product of acidic gourds, which are wastes that are formed when oil products are purified by concentrated sulfuric acid. It is under this experiment that important state institutions such as the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the State Administration of Ecology and Natural Resources in the Lviv Region, the Lviv District Sanitary Epidemiological Station, have granted a limited liability to Osma Oil to the Society to import 3,000 tons of neutralized Hudrons into Ukraine, although according to the Ukrainian waste classification, this product refers to the fourth class of toxicity. The main motive for action is the lack of technology in Ukraine to neutralize acidic gourds. However, experts at the Institute of Geology and Geochemistry of Burning Fossils of NAN Ukraine in Lviv have given careful attention to information on Hungarian technology for the neutralization of the Goodrons. It's an extremely expensive technology, and it's just economically uncomfortable to neutralize the goudrons behind it. That's the problem. The experiment is to ensure that Hungarian technology costs $2 million free of charge to Ukraine. But will everything be all right with this free gift? First. And neither the public nor the scientists now have confidence that the area is actually being imported into waste classified as the fourth class of danger. Moreover, the state environmental expertise of the experiment on burning neutralised Hungarian goudrons at the Dobroverus TEZ was not conducted, which is contrary to the seventh article of the Ukrainian Law on Environmental Expertise. The other one. Or it will be an addition to the free Hungarian technology to the disposal of neutralised goudrons from countries of the European Union, whose conservation legislation is very strict and, according to the information available, will soon be filled with a ban on burning these kinds of compounds. And we're going to have: our Gudrons are thousands of tons, and we're going to take other people's. It is no secret that more than 500,000 such wastes have been stockpiled in the Lviv region in the last 50 years. They continue to be a serious environmental problem and a real source of environmental pollution, a source of social tension. 300,000 tons of this dangerous product belongs to the Lviv oil research plant. 200000 tonnes VAT MPK Galicina. They're all located at the Lviv garbage dump, which is supposed to be eliminated and shut down in 2006. I understand that utilization is a general problem. But the proposed solution to the situation is highly questionable, especially since article 36 was deleted from the Ukrainian Waste Act in July 2002, which prohibited the importation into Ukraine of waste for the purpose of storing and removing it. I want to get professional and reasoned answers to the questions I have asked. So please consider my statement to be a question to the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u167	Please, Vladimir Yavorowski. Next, Mikola Politchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u168	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine", Victor Yushchenka block, Head of the National Association of Ukrainian Writers. Dear people who are listening to us now! You and I live in a country where power, the highest authority in the word "culture" grabs at a place where a famous German ideologist once hangs a holster. We were convinced of this once again when the remains of the poor, malcontented, unexploited Ukrainian intelligence were being heard, and these hearings were not broadcast. They were just afraid of the voice of Ukrainian intelligence. I want to apologize to the radio audience because I have a much more complicated problem to talk about today, but since I'm a national MP, as a citizen who's practically cut off from the media that the authorities have privatized, let me take advantage of and at least make a little bit of clarity in that scandal, in that noise-gam that was created by the authorities around the National Writer Society. I'm going to read you a brief interview of the Ukrainian nation of Paul the Zagreb Man who wrote so many books that you could actually think that this person created a separate national literature. This is what he said about this in the newspaper Evening Kiev: "It's some kind of comic opera. There were some general congregations of writers there, 50, 70, or 100 Kiowi insolents, gathered together and decided to convert Yavorowski. If I had the money, I would be gathering the same general congregations of Ukrainians tomorrow that would have chosen Kuchma and changed the Constitution. And that would be normal? It's ridiculous, it's unworthy, it's shameful. And three official channels of Ukrainian television for three days are broadcasting the entire comedy. Some people are talking about some large property of the community they claim to be. Who are they? What did they do to make this property? To increase the wealth of the writers ’ association, many have done so, including Potter, Stella, Sobko, Dimarov, Ivanniczuk, Fedor, W., the same Zagreb. From the books we published, there were profits, and for those profits, there was a profit. Those people who sit there today in the lobby and show us three days on TV are some random people, nobody knows them or knows what they've done or what their intellectual gain is. I conclude with what took place, the highest body of the Writer's Association, its plenary, where all the outstanding baskets of Ukrainian literature that are part of this body were presented, they unanimously condemned the splitters, they imposed a moratorium on any assembly to the presidential election and excluded from the Writer's Association, I want people to know about it, these four Natala Okolitenko, Kaplan. Who knows, it's not the Kaplan who shot Lenin, it's the other one. No one knows people, they're being expelled from the Writers' Association. You could put a dot and say a brutal incident with an attack on the Writer Association when the gunmen were prowling to seize the room. By the way, if they had captured him, there would probably be repairs there today, and they were already preparing for the headquarters of the SDPU, or they said they wanted to give it to the Russian Embassy. I say again, you could put a dot, but with the power of a chancellor like Medvedchuk who's leading this operation to this day, unfortunately, I'm putting just three dots. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u169	Please, Mikola Efremovich Polishchuk. Tamara Proskuratov's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u170	Mikola Polishchuk, "Our Ukraine" faction, Victor Yushchenka's block. Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs, in my speech, I want to focus on the antisocial orientation of the budget. In a declaration of GDP growth by 6 percent or more, the Cabinet of Ministers reduces health spending from 3.2 percent of GDP to 3.1 percent. A question arises. Why? Maybe we don't have any GDP growth, just a declaration? Perhaps in a very good state of health, or perhaps it is necessary to steal money for the elections that will take place if they happen at all? Many questions to the MPs, even more to the people and, in particular, to the medics. A budget of $34, a conditional unit per person, will be allocated to health care. Of these, 90 percent will go to maintenance. So there's going to be four units per person. It is well - known today that there is no medical care if less than $30 is available for medical care. Neither the medics nor the common people, the respected government officials, are interested in your mythical GDP. We are interested in financing health care and preserving the health of the nation, people. Not to talk about democracy, but to ensure it, including the right to health care, is our job with you. Isn't this a social budget that provides minimum wage of 237 dollars without taking into account categories, inter-qualification ratios, etc. And all of this is anticipated from September 1. We strongly demand that this be done as of January 1, 2004. Thus, the Budget Committee seeks to resolve this by providing for an additional 856 million dollars to be allocated to local budgets. But why does the government ignore it? There is a need to address the issue of an increase in the expenditure of the Ministry of Health by $541 million to improve health care in rural areas, prevention and treatment of cardiovascular and vascular diseases. The committee and our faction are concerned about the government's proposal to suspend the next year's aid for the sale of medical supplies and medical supplies and the sale of sanatorium drugs for children. The introduction of VAT will inevitably result in an increase in the cost of medicine and medicine as a minimum of 20 percent. And the proposal to increase excise duty rates on ethyl alcohol, which is used to produce and manufacture medical supplies up to 16 bracelets at the current rate of 2 bracelets, will result in higher prices for cheap drugs, lose small pharmaceuticals, end-of-life, industry. The petrol will be used to process the operating fields. I've been through this before in the '90s. So, I have a question: To what extent will the abuse of the people, of health care, of the industry that not only restores the power of the manufacturing industry, but which contributes to the continued efficiency of production? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u171	Thank you. Tamara Sergiyevna Proskuratova. Next Bogdan Kostinjuk. Please follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u172	Thank you. Tamara Proscuratorova, faction of the SDPU. I would like to say first of all, to give a more faithful answer to the speaker who spoke, read a letter to him, addressed to him, about the parties, about the newspaper covers, the notebooks that do not meet the moral and ethical standards. This issue has been raised on numerous occasions from both the teaching hall and the Supreme Council’s rostrum. So right now there are journals, I can even bring a gift Tuesday, with the image of Mazepa, Natalia, the famous Ukrainian actors. And those journals that release private businesses certainly don't meet any moral standards. But it's not the minister of education's fault. And we need to look to the appropriate branches of the judiciary. This is the first time. Secondly, I haven't had a chance to come out of the problems, more faithfully, for the purpose of analysing this budget, which is being proposed, where funding for the education sector is being put in place. And that's why our faction supports the idea of both the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, and the appeal of the committee of Nikolaynek to Leonid Makarovich, as the leader of our faction, on the priority funding of the educational sector. During meetings with educational groups, during the exit meetings of the Committee on Education and Science, I find that education approves salary raises, although this is still in line with the 57th article of the Ukrainian Education Act, approves that the State Bus Programme is funded for the first time. But a number of outstanding problems remain in the budget process. We approve of an increase in wages. But the gap between the salary of a technologist and a young teacher is minus two bracelets for a technologist. And if you enter a single tariff grid from January 1st that is provided by Kabmin No. 740 from 19.05. In 2003, the ratio between posts and salaries will be maintained. In accordance with article 25, paragraph 1, of the Education Act of Ukraine, the rate of the teacher of the elementary classes is 18 hours, and for today it is paid at the rate of 20 school hours. The need to ensure that the above article is implemented is due to the fact that the hours of music, physical education, and foreign language are carried out by experts from other subjects. And from here, pedagogical stress is usually two thirds of the rate that affects their salary. It requires funding and upgrading of the material and technology base, such as physics, chemistry, biology and PTU, and children learn from tractors and presses that are no longer used anywhere. And I would like to see a tax-free financial-economic mechanism of the trades sector spread across the entire educational sector. The problem of aid for a rural teacher, which is foreseen in the 57th article, remains acute. Although I would not like to compare a teacher to a disabled person who really needs help. As the wage rises, the problem itself will disappear. And there is also a difficult problem of providing textbooks that are catastrophicly lacking. This problem occurs year after year, and it gets worse. And that's why we think that this question needs to be solved once and then just to complete the base. Our faction believes that only highly educated citizens can make the innovation of the Ukrainian economy. And I wanted this position of the legislative and executive, the highest branches of government, on the priority of financing education, to have a concrete effect. And another 30 seconds. As I speak from this rostrum, I make this statement: according to the statements made by the national deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 29 people, a decision has been taken to create a non-factional "Dniesteria" union. The union is designed to support and develop social humanitarian education and cultural ties for our fellow citizens in Transnistria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u173	Thank you. Bogdan Kostinuk. Next, Mikola Rudzikowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u174	The People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinjuk. Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs! In recent times, authorities have, in fact, demonstrated their cynicism at least twice. This was the first time in Donetsk from October 29 to 31, when, according to the Bank's direction, numerous provocations and gross violations of the law were organized during the session of the Viktor Yushchenk's Block of Ukraine. The second day in this room, when the majority of the people in parliament were intimidated by the administration, blocked the offer of the faction "Our Ukraine" to listen to the information of the Minister of Interior, the Minister of Education and the Head of the Board on the Donetsk events. Meanwhile, "Our Ukraine" has repeatedly drawn the attention of the Ukrainian public and the world's society to the disturbing symptoms of a general illness of power in Ukraine. The Bandit dictatorship, which has shown itself in Donetsk and has patrons in the high Kiev offices, has metosized all over Ukraine, and the local authorities have been learning to live by the orders developed by the President’s Administration. The faction "Our Ukraine" is surprised by the behavior of the majority factions who do not want to be guided by the national interests of Ukraine. Because that model of power they're trying to plant right now is antisocial in its essence. State institutions are being transformed into a wide range of real rulers of life who communicate with the people, not by means of law, but by means of fists. And today, when we were discussing the issue of the appointment of the Attorney General, I wanted to ask the honourable Gennady Andryovich one question: regarding the Donetsk events. This is not a matter of violation of the Constitution or 16 articles of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, not of the embodiment of young people under the authority, because both the teaching process was interrupted, and vodka was poured into minors during this exercise, not of the Nazi swastika on the streets of Donetsk, not of the inflaming of international, inter-regional hostility in Donetsk, not of the crime at the airport at last, but of the one question: how will the future Attorney General of Ukraine oppose those darknesses of the President's Administration, and not even of the darkness, but of the completely official document registered, signed by the Vice-President of the President's Administration on the subject of preventing opposition, such as our Ukraine, during the forum. This information has been posted and published on the official Ukrainian Truth website, Our Ukraine, and this is the first question I'm asking the Attorney General to consider as the first question of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u175	Please, Mikola Mikolaiovich Rudzkowski, next Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u176	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Honorable National MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. On behalf of the Socialist faction, I welcome everyone with today's great celebration of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution, and I would like to make a statement to the Socialist Party of Ukraine: "We socialists, starting in 2002, have been drawing the government's attention to the issue that hunger has been on the whole country in Ukraine. Since September 2002, January 2003 -- we've made the right statement. In April 2003, we warned that radical measures by the government should be taken as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, most of the Supreme Council of Presidents did not support the decision to overcome the crisis in the agrarian-industrial complex and did not support those measures to overcome the food crisis. The Socialists had repeatedly initiated bills that allowed food crises to be avoided. So Vasil Tsushka's bill on social bread was not supported by the Supreme Council, and my bill on overcoming the food crisis on encouraging imports into Ukraine of grain and flour without duty and without taxes on added value was also not supported. I gave it to you. The new bill on imports of flour and reduced the value added tax to 10 per cent, which would make it impossible to raise prices in Ukraine on bread, because today a thousand of 200 dollars of grain is being imported into Ukraine, resulting in a thousand 800 flours. The import of flour into Ukraine will take place by a thousand 300. And this will allow you to reduce the value added tax by 10 percent to secure stable bread prices to the next crop. There's no one in the government to do that. So socialists are launching protests in all regions of Ukraine against the government's inaction on this issue. We, the socialists of Montenegro, will take care of this issue on November 14 in Montenegro to make sure that it does not raise the price of bread. I'm calling from this rostrum to the President of Ukraine. Leonide Danilovich, I would not like to add to all the accusations that are in your favor that you were the President of the State in 2003, when there was an artificial famine in Ukraine against your people because of the inaction of the economic bloc of the government. Take radical measures, lead the National Security Council, place the President under the control of the President, accept the President's decree to prohibit the raising of the price of bread and the decision of the appropriate government. And then we will not be conducting a protest campaign throughout Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u177	Please, Mikhail Kosov. The next miner.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u178	Mikhailo Kosov, Victor Yushchenka faction "Our Ukraine", the Reforms and Order Party. I have been entrusted with the task of uniting the societies of deported Ukrainians from Lemkushkin. ‘ The Dutch and the Lovers read their address. It begins with a historical reference."On 9 September 1944, the government of the USSR and the Polish National Liberation Committee entered into an agreement to evacuate the Ukrainian population from Poland and Polish citizens from the territory of the USSR, which was the legal basis for the deportation of nearly half a million Ukrainians in the 44th and 46th years. The evacuation of the Ukrainian population was to take place only voluntarily, as highlighted in article 1 of the covenant. In fact, the eviction of the Ukrainian population was compulsory, that is, it had all the signs of deportation. This crime was accompanied by confiscation of property, destruction of Ukrainian schooling and social life. By insurmountable taxes and mandatory surrender to the state of grains, other products, and most important, mass anti - Ukrainian terror. And when that was not enough, since the beginning of September 45th and by the end of July 46th of the year, the Ukrainians' forced export had officially carried out three specially prepared military divisions. Meanwhile, it was voluntary, in quotes, "action" not only in fact, but also in law, it was a national deportation. My representatives of the Ukrainian deportees' societies are also addressing, including the Supreme Council, the Institute of Ukrainian Science, the Karpiyakevich National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the scientific centre for research into the entire spectrum of Ukrainian-Polish relations in the Netherlands, in Nacjan and Lemkovščina in the first half of the last century, including deportation of the indigenous Ukrainian population and mass Ukrainian terror in these areas. And in September and October 2004, at a state level, mark the beginning of the deportation of Ukrainians from western Ukrainian ethnic lands that have gone to the composition of modern Poland. And in a few seconds, I want to address those for whom today is a holiday. Respectable compatriots! Do you not know that both the provocation in Donetsk and the provocations in Kiev today are organized by the same political and even governmental power? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u179	Please, Eugene Gorenik. Next Slatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u180	Eugene Hoornik, Valley Electoral District, Ivano-Frankiv district, faction of our Ukraine. Honorable MPs, distinguished voters! Recent processes in so - called post - Soviet countries have led to some reflection. The rape of the Azerbaijani people by former partnermenclature, which changed Communist tickets to oligarchic marks, by adopting the national good, and by establishing the Aliy dynasty in Azerbaijan, the falsification of elections in Georgia tells us that similar scenarios are being prepared in Ukraine. But the experience of past parliamentary elections has shown that even by falsifying our Ukrainian nomenclature, we cannot win these elections. And that's why there's a very different scenario. The scenario is known from imperial politics: divide and rule, digest everyone and everything. And this scenario has also been followed by the Donetsk event, when the faction of our Ukraine collided with the Donetsk and the Levite events, it's an attempt to collide our Ukraine with the military, and the ban on holding forums actually in Sumas, where the area is being torn apart, and in Lutsk, where the dramataries are being repaired elsewhere. Yes, these people with a small letter "o" shed crocodile tears for ecology, after schooling, leading to the ecological disaster of the Carpathians, destroying the Ukrainian-speaking school system in the Donetsk region. And they're preparing both the dissolution of Parliament and the destabilisation of the situation in Ukraine to catch fish in this murky water. That's why the faction "Our Ukraine" urges us not to give in to these provocative actions. What happened today in Kiev is from the same series. The ghost of communism, it's long gone. And it's obvious that we have to fight those thieving acts, with that plague pyre that spreads the same nomenclature today. So in order to prevent this kind of government in Ukraine, like Azerbaijan, Georgia, other post-Radians countries, in order to get on the European path of development, we still need to unite and reinstate the work of Parliament, and conduct normal presidential elections by choosing Ukrainian power, the Ukrainian President, and establishing democracy in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u181	Sergei Slabenko. Next Ivan Miihovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u182	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! My presentation concerns the activity of the Volin district government, led by Anatoly the French, in the execution of state programs. Anatholia Frencha’s headship has repeatedly raised the issue of election district No. 19 of Volin region, personally before him. It's about the supply of disabled cars, the construction of the No. 10 Novovolinska mine, the gasification of the death penalty. Sting (?) and the cities of Lubo., a former problem in the village of Pavlovka, construction of a solid waste site in Novovolinsk, submerged areas of the village of Buda. the Czech district, the lack of credit to individual rural builders under the Home Program. But there's a lot of other issues that the Volina voters are raising in return for me. All of these questions were not personally considered by Anatoly the Frenchman, but he was committed to preparing formal receipts to his deputy, and sometimes to the head of management. And it is no wonder that these issues remained unresolved, without the proper response of the officials of the general government. When these and other questions were raised by me in front of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the ministries, the answers were again based on those from the previous censuses of the government. At the same time, instead of parading Volin officials on positive trends, new achievements, use of measures, and the implementation of targeted programs are extremely problematic in Volin. Let me give you a few facts. Only 4.1 million are allocated for the construction of the 10th mine out of 16 million. The gasification of U. and Luboml in 2003 will not take place, since the government has not supported my initiatives and the electoral initiative of the Ministry of Economics at all. Wallini’s disabled were given a much smaller number of cars than the decision of the department of profile. Instead, after planning in 2002 a total of 615 thousand dollars for the purchase of apartments to the deputies of Pančišin, Rodić, Jakimczuk, Maksimyuk, and in full, the funds were received, used, and the apartments quickly allocated to these officials. Isn't that because he signed the President's Order and today he's asking questions about the dismissal of Panchishin from his position? Instead, Volin’s district government seems to have formed a regional reserve of grain. In violation of current legislation, without the inclusion of budgetary resources and the identification of special operators, it allowed for the purchase of grain under bilateral agreements between producers and processing companies at reduced prices to legal persons. Anatoly the Frenchman could not help but know that under such contracts property rights would be owned by commercial associations, and therefore there was no legalized regional stock of grain. Instead, Anatoly the Frenchman arranged for 120,000 reconstructions of the house, where he now resides temporarily, in the best traditions of the new Ukrainians. Therefore, I ask the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yanukovitch, to appoint a review of the activities of the Volin Observatories in charge of the French. Take advantage of my appeals and requests to Anatoly the French, analyze what steps have been taken to address the issues they have identified. To verify the enforcement of effective legislation by officials in the formation of regional resources for Wolini grains, to uphold the principles of social justice in the distribution of housing in favour of substitute heads of government. Dear Victor Fedorovich, the Volinians want to hear your position on assessing the actions of officials of the government. In addition, I am addressing the Office of the Prosecutor of the Volin Region: to activate the work of examining parliamentary requests and appeals by the deputies of the Volin District Council to verify the activities of the branch.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u183	Ivan Ivanovich Migovich. Next Chernewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u184	Thank you. Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, colleagues, voters. The devastating effects of the so-called land reform, carried out under a sad presidential decree, are well known. The shame of the present is the widespread real famine, and it is true that attention is diverted from it by the tragic events of the distant past. One of the dangerous aspects of the ongoing destruction of the Zacarpathian village, the growing sale of land to natural and legal persons from outside the area and abroad. Such facts take place in the villages of Poljana, Zbinish, Diniyovo, Jacobs, Blue Faith, and others. During the first half of the year, 2 million were sold out. 100 grand. That's right. That's 2.5 times more than predicted. Even such a plan, it turns out, is. This process is being carried out in the form of creating sports bases for the Dynamo Football Club, the development of non-agricultural land, the development of entrepreneurship, and in fact aimed at deforestation, predatory exploitation of mines, the acceptance of the premises of former pioneer camps, sanatoriums and other convenient facilities. [[Kiev]] Practically unique assumptions and raw materials become prey to foreign and foreign residents. Privatization of the most advantageous and unique areas at no cost hinders the public grazing of livestock, the collection of mushrooms, medicinal herbs, the preservation of created infrastructures, and so forth. In the area, there is a wide spread around the criminal sale of land, the plundering of natural resources. Members of local councils, officials of administrations, law enforcement agencies, and the creation of additional conditions for corruption, criminalization of power. All of this provokes the widespread indignation of the natives of the country, increases social tension, feeds. phobia. Under low-land conditions, chronic unemployment and mass poverty, the predatory redistribution of land and nadr means, in fact, the creation of a slow and long-lasting bomb threatens national security in the southwestern region. Our references to this matter remain inconclusive. With regard to the so-called object in the village, and in fact the residence of the leader of the SDPU(o), a copy was received from the district council. The talk on the Government Day about the theft of natural nadrs also ran out of response. What I'm saying is that in Zakarpat, we don't know any serious conflicts on ethnic or religious soil, but documented conflicts with the use of weapons between the indigenous population and the official owners for the right to use the land. And today's redistribution is very dangerous. For days, I have turned to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for this reason, and I would very much not like this request to be met by such a fate as a formal write-off from the District Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u185	Thank you. Leonid Mikhailovich Czernovetský, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u186	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies and Honourable Voters of the Darnick electoral district of Kiev. For certain reasons, it is not easy for me to speak today. But I do believe that my word should speak on the Supreme Council, and that is why I want to express my position in Ukraine for a few minutes. In my view, Ukraine today is hampered mainly by the extremely left and extremely nationalistic flows that are represented, including in the Supreme Council, and by high taxes. And there are no more problems in Ukraine today. There is still a problem with the morality of local authorities. I am convinced in Kiev that it is not the President who is depriving the Kiev of many important things that they could also receive in the form of housing, subsidies and everything else. I've learned that there's just some genocide going on all over Ukraine by local officials because they're distributing apartments to people like them, officials, they're taking care of their own, and they're doing absolutely nothing to improve the life of a simple person. By the time I was 52 years old, I was beginning to understand and know what a simple person is and what a person can take care of himself. I mean both the pensioners and the disabled, and the bums, especially the ones I work for. Of course, much depends on the Supreme Council, which is unfortunately not being resolved here. For example, I initiated hearings on the issues of the street and the fact that the main reason for this hearing was without drugs to cut off the legs of one of my trustees. His legs were cut off, he wrote me a letter about how he was suffering without a drug. We've got to say, medicine's practically paid. And I ask the Supreme Council to hear this question. And he was delayed for six months, and now Mr. Hara, the head of the committee that ran away from the Communists, decided to speak on this issue in the Supreme Council, and I want through the Supreme Council, maybe he'll hear my statement, let him tell you, he's never seen a bum in his life, that he's going to talk at that hearing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-07-m0.u187	Dear colleagues! Two other MPs have come to ask from the colleague of Maria Andriyvni Markus to the acting prosecutor of Ukraine for an answer to a request regarding the violation of legislation in the despoiling of land and property of the former Leninec SPC of the village of Novopokrovka of the Red Army region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. And the other question is also the request to the Acting Prosecutor-General of Ukraine for a dissatisfaction with the failure to comply with the judgment of the Tachiv District Court of 25.02.2002 on the collection of the amount of damages caused by the alcohol. It's wide, and it's about bringing back the arbitrary takeover of land, and so on. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. The next plenary session will be held on November 11th, Government Day on three issues: "Protection of Cultural Heritage Objects", "Warning of the death of cardiovascular and cardiovascular diseases", "The International Consortium on Administration and Development of the Ukrainian Gas Transport System". Good luck!
