ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies and defenses, please prepare for registration. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:00:54]] Registered -406 There are 406 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honourable National Deputies, in the work of the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, participate the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, the Commissioner for Human Rights and members of the government. Dear colleagues, today the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputies: Manchulenka Georgia Manoliyovich, Pavelka Jurija Alexiyovich and Trelyakova Aleksandra Yuriovich. Let's welcome them and wish them every success. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters between Ukraine and the State of Kuwait on Assistance to the 19th Special Battalion of Radiation, Chemical and Biological Protection of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in the Protection of the Civilian Population of the State of Kuwait against the Possible Use of Weapons of Mass Destruction and the Elimination of Possible Effects of Weapons of Mass Injury in the Territory of the State of Kuwait, as well as the draft Law on Approval of the President of Ukraine's Decision on the Assignment of the 19th Special Battalion of Radiation, Chemical and Biological Protection of the Armed Forces of Ukraine to the State of Kuwait to provide assistance in protecting the civilian population of that State against the possible use of weapons of mass injury and the possible consequences of the use of weapons of mass injury in the territory of Kuwait. The National Security and Defence Committee proposes this way of addressing this issue: for the report, up to 30 minutes, for the answer to the question to the reporter, 15 minutes, for the co-report, up to 10 minutes, for the answer to the question to the co-rapporteur, 15 minutes, for the discussion and decision-making, 20 minutes. Is there no objection to such a procedure? One minute, calm down. From the procedure, please log in. Five minutes per procedure. Please point it on the board. National Deputy Yeshchenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u3	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u4	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! First of all, I'd like to ask you to include in the agenda today, too, a new world war has begun, and we understand what the consequences of the world will be if we don't condemn this aggression of the United States today. Secondly, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the question is so serious that today, to limit the conversation for twenty minutes, when the sons of Ukraine are being sent there to put their heads together, not knowing what and what, it just seems to me to say, a superficial approach to dealing with this problem. As many national MPs as he wants today, so much so. This is a very serious problem, this is the responsibility of the Supreme Council for Ukraine's future. And thirdly, there are representatives at the Supreme Council today who have supported us Communists, the call to come to the Supreme Council today and say decisively, "No!" aggression and "No!" The direction of our battalion to the Middle East. We're asking you to turn a broadcast on the street so people can hear what we're talking about in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u5	Yes, as far as the application is concerned. The Secretariat will give us a chance to consider the inclusion and consideration of this statement when the Secretariat gives me this application. Regarding time, respectable colleagues. We usually look at it for 45 minutes. The committee's offering an hour and a half. There will be other proposals - let's vote them out. It's about broadcasting. Is there no objection to the broadcast? I'm giving you an assignment to turn on the broadcast. Please, Eugene Kirilchuk, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u6	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national MP, Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u7	Alexander the Turkinov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, the questions that we are about to consider are issues of national security in Ukraine and to consider them by giving a speech to the people's deputies for 20 minutes -- it's just not serious. The Julia Tymoshenko faction requires that representatives of all factions and all parliamentary groups be allowed to speak. Only then can it be considered to be a discussion of Ukraine’s national security. We cannot hide our heads from the problems that will face our nation tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u9	Yes, of course, then we'll vote on your proposal, I think she's right. Joseph Wynsky, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u10	Wynski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs! Today, in fact, we must decide on Ukraine’s entry into war. And to limit the discussion of such a serious situation, there's 20 or 30 minutes -- it's just impossible. We need to understand that we're becoming aggressors, and the Ukrainian army is taking part in fighting in another state's territory. And people will die, and there will be corresponding shares according to Ukraine. And for that we have to take political responsibility. That is why we insist on a broad discussion, a public issue. There are many opportunities for everyone to take the floor. And today we see, unfortunately, that the project that Ivan Sidorovich Bocchi was talking about today, which brings this situation to absurdity, it's understandable that the commander of this battalion should be President of Ukraine Leonid Kuchma, the captain of the reserve, he's never been handed over to us, and we, I take it, are we not going to discuss it? I insist on this, this project has to be discussed too, because what we're doing today about the shipment of our battalion is absurd and it's a state crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u11	National Deputy Razwadowski, Group of Democratic Initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u12	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please pass the word to Stephen Bogdanovich Gavrish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u13	Stepan Gavrish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, I think this is really a very important issue for us to be able to consider today in Parliament. And we suggest we use two rules to do that. But we also need to consider that today, the day of the vote, requires us to adopt important laws for the economic reform of the Ukrainian State. And the question of our general attitude toward the situation in the world is to consider it at a separate meeting outside the voting day.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time is running out, let's take stock of the proposals. A profile committee proposal is an hour and a half to discuss. A proposal was made here to allow all the factions to speak. So it's a total of 40 minutes. Is there no objection to such a regulation for all factions to be discussed? One minute, calm down. Time's up. Is there no objection? It's a deal. As far as I'm concerned, the honourable colleagues are concerned about the projects that our fellow national MPs have put in. I would like to point out immediately that, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules, according to the agenda of the agendas that we have voted on, the issues that the President of Ukraine is asking are automatically included in the agenda. That's the first one. The other one. The proposals made by the national deputies are not valid, for they cannot be subject to legislative initiative. That's the first one. The other one. If the MPs insist, then we can only vote in favour of including these issues in the agenda. That's the order. I give the floor to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council for Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u16	Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honorable Presidium, Honorable People's Deputies. War is always a tragedy that involves not only destruction but, above all, numerous civilian casualties. In fact, it is the very means of solving problems that are least in line with modern notions of humanism, justice, and the rule of international law. Unfortunately, mankind has not yet learned to solve exclusively in a peaceful way the problems that periodically arise and become relevant in the world. Ukraine is a peaceful country. Humanism and peacemaking have always been the dominants of Ukrainian foreign policy. We're against any war, both sanctioned and unsanctioned. Therefore, Ukraine has repeatedly spoken against the war in Iraq and has advocated solutions to the problems that have been accumulated over the past decade around Iraq through exclusively peaceful means, negotiations, agreements, and compromises. At the same time, in rephrasing the expression of the classic you all know, it is worth reminding us that living in and being free from a globalized world today is impossible. For every realistic politician, the inevitability of war became evident long before it began, as well as the fact that the conflict in the Gulf region was likely to cause numerous casualties, including, if not primarily, among innocent civilians. What alternatives were still before Ukraine today. Some feel that it is better to hide behind attractive slogans of unacceptable and immoral concern for Ukrainian military personnel. This choice is always out of frame, so to speak. But what do we really want to share with the world’s societies? If we really want to share with the world’s society the concern for the fate of these people and provide them with assistance, Ukraine cannot, has no right to stay away. This is what the decisions of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine from February 20th and March 18th this year, as implemented by the President's Decree, are all about. I quote: "The targeting of the 19th individual battalion of radiation, chemical and biological protection of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to the State of Kuwait to provide assistance in protecting the civilian population of the State against the possible use of weapons of mass destruction and to eliminate the possible consequences of the use of weapons of mass destruction in the territory of the State of Kuwait. I deliberately gave the last decree to rule out any ambiguity in this matter. We do not see the beginning of a violent problem around Iraq without the mandate of the UN Security Council. But as a result of Ukraine's commitment as a UN member State and its contribution to the elimination of the consequences of the possible use of weapons of mass impression in the Gulf and Middle East region, we recognize that the interests of maintaining peace and security in the world, the spirit and the letters of international law are not only appropriate, but also necessary to help the State of Kuwait to eliminate the consequences of the possible use of weapons of mass impression. The legal question that arises in the light of the decision of the RNB and the address of the President of Ukraine, why Kuwait? The answer is itself asked. When we mention Iraq’s aggression against the country in 1991 and the associated commitment and gratitude of Kuwait to its liberators, Kuwait is now legally used by coalition forces as the most convenient platform for the attack on Iraq. That's why Kuwait actually turned out to be the hostage of the situation. It should be recalled that Kuwait does not belong to the coalition of countries that run it. And another urgent question: Is there a mass - impact weapon in Iraq? This raises doubts, both about Iraq’s direct use of chemical weapons against Iran and the Kurdish rebels and about the availability of appropriate technologies and manufacturing that have been installed by Western countries, including some of the participants in today’s anti - Iraqi coalition. Taking into account the circumstances and circumstances set forth, the relevant decisions of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine since February 20 and March 18, this year are legitimate and legitimate. They are in line with the Ukrainian law on the order in which troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces are sent to other states from March 2, 2000, to international law. First of all, this is an additional protocol for the protection of victims of international armed conflict from June 8, 1977 to the Geneva Conventions of August 1949. To Kuwait it is proposed that the 19th individual battalion of radiation chemical and bacteriological protection of the Ukrainian Armed Forces be sent to 550 military personnel in total. Taking into account the experience and the level of preparation of the battalion’s special warehouses, the task is now ready. In accordance with the bilateral agreement between Ukraine and the State of Kuwait of 17 March this year, this battalion is directed towards the protection of the civilian population of the State of Kuwait in the event of the use of weapons of mass injury, participating in the elimination of the consequences of the possible use of weapons of mass injury in the territory of the State of Kuwait. In accordance with his assignment, the battalion can perform the following tasks: [[I call them.]] The conduct of radiation, chemical and non-specific bacteriological or biological exploration; carrying out radiation and chemical control of the radiation and contamination of the civilian population; Complete deactivation and disinfection of contaminated areas of roads, transports, bridges, chemical fences, separate areas of the area; transport of disinfectant, disinfectant and disinfectant solutions; degassation, deactivation and disinfection of footwear, equipment and personal protective equipment; conducting a sample analysis of their contamination with toxic and radioactive substances; collecting, processing and providing information on the use of weapons of mass injury; predicting a radiation, chemical, and biological situation, collecting radiation, chemical, and bacteriological data. A battalion made up of exclusive contractors on a voluntary basis. Among his military personnel, there are many who have carried out peacekeeping missions under the auspices of international organizations, and there are also those who have been killed by the Chernobyl disaster. According to a medical examination, the battalion’s special composition is capable of operating in tropical dry climate and will be vaccinated according to epidemiological indicators for the Gulf region. In accordance with the agreement between Ukraine and the State of Kuwait, the battalion is sent for a period of six months, with the possibility of extending the term for the next three months, which is a separate arrangement. So we have to recognize that the special composition of the Ukrainian battalion of radiochemical and bacteriological protection is sufficiently prepared, capable of the best way to accomplish the tasks that rely on it. In addition, it is fully subordinated and will be exclusively under the general command of the General Staff of the Armed Forces and will operate on the basis of the solely political mandate of Ukraine. It is clear that war is a war and the presence of our military personnel near the area of military conflict is always associated with the risk of life. With a view to compensating the physical and moral loss of the battalion's military personnel, the Cabinet of Ministers has decided to provide social protection measures, namely, monetary compensation for carrying out military service duties in another country, compensation to military personnel for possible individuality and to members of the families of the deceased, the extension of the benefits and compensation provided for by the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, the guarantee of their social protection. War is indeed a cruel and merciless reality, and so when it comes to the lives of hundreds of thousands of people, the threat of environmental catastrophe throughout the region, Ukraine has no moral or legal right to remain outside. However, despite the complex domestic and economic situation, to the extent possible, it can really help these hundreds of thousands of peaceful people to reduce the effects of the global environmental catastrophe. Our country must fulfill its responsibility to international society and carry out this humanitarian mission, not in words, but in fact to help the people of Kuwait avoid possible dangers of a military conflict that has already erupted. By ratifying the Supreme Council's bilateral agreement with the State of Kuwait and the relevant presidential decree on the Security Council's decision, we are counting on its realistic consideration. With the unilateral approach of the United States and their allies to a powerful solution to Iraq's disarmament problem, we need to come out of the reality of today's situation, by the way, a situation that we don't have any other power to stop today. The war began regardless of our preferences. Diplomatic disputes between the adversarial states and the opposing states in Iraq have shown that the anti-Iraq coalition's plans can no longer be stopped, nor can there be significant changes in the future, both in Iraq and in the system of the new world order. We can agree with those who point out that the ways of new realities do not meet the ideal standards of international relations. But you can't close your eyes to the fact that they exist and that you can't change them in the near future. As we now anticipate the formation in postwar Iraq, the Middle East and perhaps the whole world of new geopolitical configurations, we are obliged to ask ourselves the following questions: What is Ukraine's place in the system of international relations, particularly with regard to Iraq? How will it address its urgent foreign policy challenges — the acceleration of European and Euro-Atlantic integration, the improvement of relations with Arab countries, the United States, the resolution of economic issues in international financial organizations, and so on? Given the relevance of the Iraqi issue, Ukraine's response to the anti-Iraq coalition forces will be a test that will determine its place in the new global and Euro-Atlantic security architecture. At the same time, we do not give up hope that Euro-Atlantic societies will seek consensus among themselves and that the ideals of the rule of law, freedom and democracy will serve as the basis for this consensus. No matter how important the relationship with the United States is, they cannot, first of all, force Ukraine to join the anti-Iraq coalition and any force against Iraq without appropriate UN resolutions. Secondly, change our country's partnership, friendship with other states. In this regard, I repeat that no part of Ukraine’s participation in force or fighting on the side of the anti - Iraqi coalition is and cannot go on in principle. The Ukrainian battalion will take place in Kuwait exclusively with a humanitarian mission, eliminating the consequences of the armed conflict among the civilian population, including perhaps among the Iraqis themselves who will be in Kuwait. This unit will be worthy of representing Ukraine, which is governed by the principles of humanity and justice in international relations. A similar move by Ukraine will demonstrate to the world that our country, out of its capacity, is contributing to international efforts to restore peace, stability in the region. In addition, many do not consider one significant circumstance: the deployment of the Ukrainian battalion to Kuwait does not mean that Ukraine has any bearing on Iraq’s conflict at all. In this connection, the question is, could the Red Cross' activity be considered to be a part of the war in behalf of any side? And I want to read this one more time: "Could Red Cross activity be considered a war effort in the name of any side?" No, of course not. And what is essentially the difference between a battalion of radiochemical protection from the Red Cross? Actually, nothing. In both cases, it is only a matter of neutralizing the consequences of war, helping the victims, especially the civilian population. Thus, the activity of the Ukrainian battalion in decontaminating the area does not conflict with our ideas of humanistic values, nor does it in any way justify war. Based on the very fact that war has already unfolded, we believe that we need to do everything we can to make the consequences less catastrophic. There is no doubt that you are interested in other aspects of the problem under consideration. And it's natural. Because I have come up with such a mission to present to your consideration a question that is far from positive in all challenges.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u17	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u18	I also foresee a number of objections that are now very active. Ukraine has made a balanced decision, which I hope will be discussed rationally.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u19	May I have your attention, distinguished national deputies?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u20	After carrying out its humanitarian mission, Ukraine must prove that it is a truly serious player in the world scene, a country that, having suffered the consequences of the Chernobyl environmental disaster itself, cannot help but be anxious about the humanitarian problems of other countries, always ready to come to their aid. Ukraine is a young nation. But we have sufficient experience to recognize the extent of our responsibility for the fate of other nations wherever they live. And we can't hide from them for a comfortable and well-known formula: my house is far away. Noting that this is about increasing the authority and weight of Ukraine, a worthy member of international society. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please calm down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u22	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think the problem that concerns Ukraine's attitude to war, to Iraq's military actions, to action without sanctions by the UN Security Council is a problem that is not debateable in our society. No one is supporting the war. This has been done in the statement and the Ukrainian Security Council and the President's statements have been made accordingly. And that's why I would suggest that we divide the two subjects. One topic that really needs to be discussed in Parliament is the attitude towards military action in Iraq. That's one topic. And the second theme is whether it's directing the Ukrainian Battalion to rescue people in Kuwait, whether it's directing people to Kuwait or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, the report is closed. 15 minutes for questions and answers, please sign in. Please state on board the names of the national MPs. Sergey Slubenko, non-fractional, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u24	I ask you to give Gennadia to Josephovich Udovenko, the faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u25	Who do you want to tell? Gennady Widow, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u26	Dear Eugene Kirilovich, before I ask you any questions, I address my colleagues. Dear colleagues, we are discussing a serious issue: war, peace, Ukraine’s participation. Do not turn the meeting into a mess. I'm ashamed of you. The question is.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u27	I ask respect and consideration for everyone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u28	Is it true that there is already an advance group dealing with battalion deployment? The other one. How are the financial aspects of the battalion’s hypothetical participation in these operations resolved? And the third. Can you do a parallel with politics, well, you'll understand that. To be favored by the great nations in Hitler’s day, and to what did this lead? And also, are you comparing the situation today with Hussein's dictatorial regime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u29	Thank you. I officially state that there is no Ukrainian military force in Iraq. Those who claim that there is information need to understand the sources that disinformation them. The other one. It's about funding. According to the Law on the Order of Referrals of the Armed Forces of Ukraine to Foreign States, if a State makes such a decision, it is not bartered or asked for anything, but it is by internal consensus that it makes such a decision. And in such cases, funding comes from the state budget. At the same time, it is envisaged that, on the basis of bilateral agreements with the requesting country, arrangements are being made with other countries for reimbursement of expenses to be incurred by the State budget. I'd like to give you a figure like that. Only to transport our battalion to Kuwait requires 89 IL-76 flights, which will cost 32 million dollars. This is going to be a state-owned airline by the Ministry of Defense. All her expenses will be reimbursed. Simply put, our state-owned defence ministry will get 32 million dollars in the estimate. The other one. As far as funding is concerned. Dear colleagues! I would like to go to the honourable colleagues of this sector, I have the experience of two parliamentary calls, and what it is to put pressure on a reporter, what are the ways and receptions, I know very well. Let's talk essentially. The other one. As for the sources that the Ministry of Defense has. In view of the fact that the decision of the UN Security Council has reduced our peacekeeping contingent in Lebanon, we have in the Ministry of Defence a release of funds that will be involved. As to who the country will compensate for transportation costs. Yes, negotiations are now under way with the United States and with other states, which guarantee that these funds will be reimbursed. Third. Retirement. You won't knock me out with speeches and screams if you want to hear the information. The rally will be later. Retirement. I wouldn't want to look at the problem of war justice and injustice. I mean military action against Iraq, this position is clear. Whatever the motivation, and how to compare Hussein or Hitler or anyone else, that question is separate, it's another topic that I think should really be discussed in this room. Thank you. The meeting is chaired by Vassilla, U.S.A.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u30	George Buiko. Next Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u31	Buiko Georgiy Vladimirović, Communist faction, Donetsk region. Yevgeny Kirilovich, you have stated that Ukraine is a peaceful country and is not going to enter any wars. The war has actually begun and we are asking the question of sending a military unit to a country that is a member of the anti-Iraq coalition. Because that's why you have to answer my question. First. Kuwait is a party to the aggression against Iraq or not. Second. I would like to hear what your relationship with Russia is as a permanent member of the UN Security Council, which opposes the war in Iraq and sends no units. What is your relationship with European countries, especially France and Germany, which are also categorically opposed to this war in Iraq? And the last. As this military unit manages, I heard you on television yesterday, allegedly on a secret phone with the General Staff of the Ministry of Defence. You, as a man of war, understand this is an absurd assumption. Yet again they have confirmed this idea, or deny it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u32	Thank you. I'll start with the last one. It's not absurd just because the battalion isn't a force unit, it won't be involved in any storm operations. Then on the phone, you really can't control it. The battalion, its mandate seems to be to operate exclusively in Kuwait, and the foot of none of our military personnel will enter the territory of any other state, including Iraq. That's the first one. And that's why the really working algorithm, which is proven both to Kuwait and it's in the Agreement, is marked: the battalion will be managed exclusively by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, which would not be given to the commander of the battalion or to the local authorities, or from the units that are engaged in the coalition that are dealing with the liquidation of the consequences, he can't execute and he has such a command of no decision, no command until he agrees with the General Staff of Ukraine. It is, by the way, the rule, as well as the fact that the battalion operates exclusively on the basis of the political mandate of Ukraine and our battalion falls under the requirements of the 1977 Additional Protocol to the 1949 Convention. And that's why our battalion has non-combatant status, which corresponds to an international legal standard that has been very carefully applied in this case. Thus, according to the international legal norms that are in force today, our battalion is not a combatant and it, it means, on no one's side, it's a lifeline, not a storm unit. The other one. What is Russia’s relationship with European countries? I think this may be the case when Ukraine should show that it can itself solve the complex issues of international life without agreeing with Moscow. By the way, one who reads carefully in European politics might take a very serious look at the game that Russia is playing today, as does France and Germany. I think that the internationals will read pretty easily what this coalition is -- Russia, Germany and France -- which is the second and third floors of this problem, which has interests in the Middle East. And for those who say, especially like Russia, I would recommend asking this question: How does the Ukrainian authorities and parliament react to the fact that Russia, in connection with the events in Iraq from April 1st to 40 percent, raises the price of oil? A very pragmatic and very important question for Ukraine. Third. As for the relationship we have with European countries. Once again, this is a question that relates to the attitude toward war. We have a clear position here: Ukraine has not supported, does not support, none of the leadership in Ukraine supports a military solution to the Iraqi crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u33	Sergei Sobolev, next to Kafarsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! Attention! My fellow Members, I don't think there's anyone in this session room who doesn't consider it necessary to fight dictatorial regimes by legal international means. But I have a question for you, Eugene Kirilovich, I wanted to pick out, you know, such a literary word and try to say it: do you not think that you, the man who serves the dictator in Ukraine and the dictatorial regime in Ukraine, well, to a lesser extent, do you not think that it is inappropriate to make proposals to fight dictators somewhere in thirty lands? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u35	It's very indicative of what political forces are consolidating with regard to dictator Hussein, if he was called a dictator. By the way, I'm gonna say it myself, not as Secretary to the Security Council. At least in order to save face in this game, which is said to save face in the game. Ladies and gentlemen of the Communists, even though it may be said that Hussein cut out the entire Communist Party to the third knee, your political brothers to the third knee cut out and drowned in blood. It's my personal attitude. As far as correct or incorrect representation is concerned. Under the Ukrainian Law, adopted by the Supreme Council, the National Security Council Act, the Secretary of the National Security Council presents in Parliament the decisions of the National Security and Defence Council, which are subject to discussion or ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u36	Please turn on the bike microphone. There is a refinement. Buiko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u37	Thank you. Buiko Georgiy, Donetsk district, Communist faction. Eugene Kirilovich, I'm still asking another question: is Kuwait a member of the anti-Iraq coalition and therefore a participant in aggression against Iraq, do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u38	Let's start by saying that in the 91st year, Kuwait became an object of aggression to Iraq, which by military force conquered this independent state, whichever way. Let's start with that. Yes, indeed, today Kuwait has become a hostage of the situation. I'm not going to be anyone's lawyer here, I'm bringing to Parliament the arguments that were used, which were the basis of the security decision. The list that was printed, you look at the 30 countries that were printed, and you won't find Kuwait there. Even some lists say that there was a Ukraine. True, no one had asked Ukraine to define its status as a member of the coalition. This cannot be done by one person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u39	Vladimir Kafarsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u40	We understand that Saddam Hussein's regime is born of the activities of the Soviet Union and the United States of America. Now they want him destroyed by those who gave birth to him. But I have a very different plan: please tell me, in 1975, Ukraine signed a convention on the prohibition of the development, production, accumulation of bacteriological weapons. The convention envisions possible assistance from countries that enter, sign this convention to protect themselves from chemical weapons, and that each State has the right to request and receive such assistance. This is a convention, and what we're sending, the law doesn't conflict with the UN's decisions?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u41	I've already said that the problem of directing our battalion to perform lifesaving functions is all there is to do. The decision is fully in line with the law on how to send troops to foreign countries, and the decision is fully in line with the international standards that I have already set out. With regard to our attitude toward Kuwait, including in connection with joining this convention, I say again, I would not like to discuss this issue now, since I have another assignment. When this is discussed, I'm going to ask Parliament to give me a word, and then I'm going to report what is today, and I'm going to be the potential of Iraq to produce weapons of mass destruction of Siberian expression, smallpox and much more. But once again, I don't want to talk about it right now. I have another task: to explain the reasons why we think, and I personally believe that this is the case when our military has a great mission to perform lifesaving functions in conditions close to the military. The military has to do their job professionally. So they can train preferably outside our borders. If it comes out in a foreign territory, it's even better. And after our battalion has completed its task within six months, we'll have a battalion of much higher quality, studies, reputations and martial arts. And when, God forbid, even hypothetically, a situation may arise, and we must put our full trust in it. And the principle that soldiers have to smell dust, but not at home, but elsewhere for the military, I think it's perfectly clear. Then, instead of fighting targets, they won't hit civilian planes instead of higher-manners before enemy planes crash into their citizens and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u42	Eugene Kirilovich, please sit down. Time's up. He'll talk. Please, a line. Who? Bull? Simonnka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u43	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I would like to say to Mr. Marchuk that we know our history well. Including events that took place in Iraq. But only Mr. Marchuk, offering arguments, forgets that the faction of Communists acts to protect the people of Iraq from that arbitrary act and children. 400,000 Americans have already buried Iraqi children with only one blockade. Just one blockade. Our entrepreneurs don't come out of Iraq, so they're all asking for oil, walking and sitting there, including in the hall here. This is about other things, Evgeny Kirilovich. The point is that you are proposing to substantiate that you are sending 550 people to death, and these are the sons of our people, who do not know what interests. Iraq had not threatened anyone at that time except the interests of the United States of America. In your time, you know what the aspirations were, as an operational and experienced KGB officer, of what the United States of America is doing. Today you are on their side, and you involve the people of Ukraine. I reiterate that the Communists are in favour of and protection of the people of Iraq against the arbitrary situation that is now taking place. What could be winged missiles shooting sparrows in there? Is that how you want to explain it? So I ask, before making such statements, Mr. Marchuk, to answer for what graves will bring here or perhaps so, terrorist acts will be carried out against the State of Ukraine and the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u44	I'll answer that. Dear colleagues, when the matter will be discussed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u45	Calm down, please calm down, well, you can't either. Let us treat one another with respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u46	When the issue of war in Iraq is discussed, I say again, I will ask to speak in this room, if you please. And I think that maybe that's when you have to tell me who the quotas in Iraq got for selling oil and who he sold them to. As far as the attitude toward war is concerned, I have already said that this is a separate subject. As for our interests in Iraq, I would ask the speaker such a question. The shipment with Iraq was 375 million. I'd ask a pragmatic question to Marchuk, minister of one another: and you've asked the question that this trade, the war has already begun, we can't influence it. I do not accept it or defend it, and I will never defend that Ukraine has not lost these interests, so that our trade interests will be protected after this war is over. Is that what you're asking? Nobody asked that question because it's a pragmatic question, it's related to another sphere.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u47	The chairman of the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, is invited to address the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u48	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues present at this meeting! I have an assignment to bring to your well-known position the committee on matters under discussion. Of the 11 members of our committee who were present at the meeting, we have 14 members of the committee, supported by the President's proposals, three against eight. At the Committee on Foreign Affairs, two national deputies supported the President’s proposal, two abstained, and seven voted against. This led to colleagues who did not support the proposal. First of all, the crime that has begun today in the United States has been committed without the mandate of the United Nations in the face of the majority of the Security Council and hundreds of millions of people around the world, including in the United States and Britain. It has also been taken into account that in our society the attitude of the vast majority of our fellow countrymen toward U.S. action is negative, as evidenced by numerous letters and appeals, including our committee. We took into account that the United Nations’ fate was at stake, and its prestige was thoroughly undermined. The main decision to send the battalion to the conflict area in the format in which it was developed and approved actually means that Ukraine was in solidarity with the actions of the United States and the coalition they led. Officials of the U.S. government among the 45 states that seem to have joined the coalition called Ukraine, referring to its willingness to send the battalion. By the way, the Germans also directed the battalion, but they don't include it in the coalition. Bush said today that he gave the coalition an order to act, and if we are members of this coalition, that's an order for us. Unfortunately, this application is unrepentant. If that's not true, if we're not members of the coalition, let's say it with the mouths of the highest officials in the state. Now, as the deal was made. The so - called conversion of Kuwait took place in a rather original form in harmony with our appeal. You have these papers, Your Honor, and I'm just not quoting them right now. Note what is written there. This was done after several failed attempts by a known state to find a country that would have agreed to invite our battalion. I'm going to quote one rather interesting document. On February 8, a working meeting was held between the head of our defense and U.S. Defense Minister Rumsfeld. [[Pay attention to the date! February 8]] Questions were raised about the possibility of involving the Ukrainian RCB battalion of protection in a peacekeeping operation in the Gulf region. On February 8th, Rumsfeld stressed that the United States would welcome the deployment of this battalion as quickly as possible, because -- I quote -- "in the case of Iraq, time is crucial." [[I'm paying attention, respectable colleagues!]] Rumsfeld expressed the hope that Ukraine would join the coalition of countries and contribute to practical action when a stabilizing work begins after Saddam. That was February 8th. On February 20, a decision is taken by the National Security Council and the President's decree. There was no appeal from any country, including Kuwait. At my suggestion, it was written: Send a battalion in case of a request from a State. That was not the case. The address seems to have come later and the exchange of notes took place, so read these notes carefully, there's an answer to whether or not there's been a call. These are unique documents in international practice. And let's tell the people the truth, we didn't take the initiative to send a battalion, we were forced by a well-known superstate. Why our leaders came to this, I think each of you understands very well. But this has nothing to do with the real national interests of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Financing. It was said that there are interesting moments. My committee colleague probably knows the situation better, and on television he announced that they were going to pay for the United States, and it was written in a manual that was added to it, and then replaced, the help, it fell out. I don't think it's random either. And what's interesting is that the Ambassador of the United States of America has repeatedly provided an explanation on this issue in the media. The one who pays, the one who orders music, is all-knowing. To whom will the battalion be subordinated? This is what was said in the document that we received, which we replaced. I'll quote you, dear colleagues, you don't know that. "The 19th Battalion will be under the general command of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and will operate within the mandate defined by the Ukrainian side." There's no objection. "It will be part of a coalition united operational force to resolve the KoOS-3 crisis as a Ukrainian national contingent in stock. Planning its implementation at operational and tactical levels will be carried out under the leadership of the Navy Commander of the Central Command of the U.S. Armed Forces, in agreement with the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Direct management of the battalion relies on KoOS-3 headquarters." I repeat, these were removed later, but they remained in nature. Next. We took into account that Ukraine's actual solidarity with U.S. actions threatens dangerous actions in response to the forces that oppose the aggression of the United States. To some extent, this is also recognized in the documents submitted by the President to the Supreme Council. They said, "You can't rule out the possibility of terrorists."and the second version says, "extremist manifestations in Ukraine and its objects located outside the state." Today, in the media, statements by leaders of Arab countries say, "Now the United States and their coalition partners will know what real terrorism is." So do we want to call this moment of terrorism on us? According to most members of our committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the deployment of the battalion does not only meet the national interests of Ukraine as required by law but puts them in serious danger. Not to be overlooked is the fact that the battalion is heading for a country that is being hit by an American army in Iraq, that is, an area of military action. I don't touch the problem -- whether it's part of the fighting -- doesn't have one thing in the military. Why are our people going to..? They are driving through their destitute position in which we have placed our armed forces. We are obliged, fellow believers, to look ahead, to see the prospect. After Iraq there will be Iran! There will be North Korea after Iran! And that gives us reason to believe that Ukraine too may not escape that fate. Yesterday, an interview was published by the American ambassador, who listed it in the newspaper Facts, which he listed. They're the ones we're in danger of. And you can at any moment, if the Ukrainian President doesn't like it any more, you can expect it in the eyes of the United States to be the same fate as Hussein. That's what I was going to say. We don't talk about Hussein's regime, it was everything, and it was Hussain who nationalized the oil industry in '72, and he can't be forgiven, and no one is protecting Hussein, protecting the world order that is approved in the United Nations. And I'd like us to take these issues into consideration, too, when we're dealing with these issues, and I'd like to take a look at the main science and science management. In view of the above, the Committee expressed its opposition to the ratification of the agreement and to the direction of the battalion by a majority of votes. We have three more projects. I think we should vote them in the complex. And there was a motion for an order of voting to make it a secret card. This issue was also discussed on the committee. The committee came to this conclusion: The time of truth has come! A Decision That Our People Should Know! [[Applause]] And no one has the right to hide, but he must look honestly and openly into the eyes of our people. That's what I call you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u49	Yes, the report is complete. Please sign up for the question. 15 minutes, as agreed. Please point it on the board. Alexander Baranowski. The faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u50	Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists. I'd like a word with Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u51	Alexander Frost, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u52	Georgi Korniyovich, a reverend, may you have some information about this: Today, anti - Arabic propaganda is available on Ukrainian television on all channels. Is it something that comes out of Ukraine’s national interests or some other motive? In fact, I have many questions, but I will leave them for my speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u53	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u54	Yes, and one more thing, please say, please, we just got word from our reporters that Iraq bombed Kuwait with missiles today. This is the question, rather, that Eugene Kirilovich refers to where. Which he said none of our military there would be at risk. What can you say about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u55	Well, on the second question, while I was leaving the house, I didn't hear any media broadcasts like this, I can't say anything, let those who are more informed say it. And with regard to the first, reverend Alexander Alexanderovich, who was giving instructions, I think we all understand who was giving them. I took note of such a situation. Yesterday, the two committees made decisions, committees, parliamentary committees, on UT-1, they didn't say a word about what decisions had been made. I don't know, Mikola Tomenko, my colleague probably knows better what censorship is, because I don't understand it at all. But what someone is conducting, I have no doubt about it. We're such a legal state.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u56	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u57	Dear Georgi Korniyovich, my colleague, Deputy Kafarsky, asked Eugene Kirilovich a question concerning the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Storage, and Use of Chemical Weapons. This convention, as you know, has been ratified by the Parliament of the past, we have discussed it in great detail. I don't know if Eugene Kirilovich mentioned how it was ratified by Ukraine, but there is a clearly defined mechanism in which a state that wants to help another state that has declared the danger of using chemical weapons against it should proceed. There's order, there's regulations, there's other things written. Do you not think that Ukraine is simply in violation of the requirements of this convention in such an option, and can act as a state violator of the convention with sanctions already applied to it? And then our state will look not like a state that does some kind of charitable thing, but rather a state that is violating a very important convention on the prohibition of chemical weapons. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u58	Dear Sergey Vasilovich, I wouldn't have put a question like that on the plane. Because our battalion in case the Supreme Council agrees, it probably won't carry a chemical weapon. It's the other way around. It's about something else. The point is that we deliberately attach ourselves to criminal acts against the State. That's the root of the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u59	Igor Ostash, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u60	Dear George Korniyovich, indeed, you are right, the time of truth has come. But we've made our draft decrees on the voting procedure, which is why. We've identified ourselves. But we know that there is some pressure on the representatives of the parliamentary majority. And that's why we wanted them to have the opportunity to express their position as they think they do. That's why we made this proposal. Indeed, the time of truth has come. Even, you know, nature versus war, because two days in a row there was a sandstorm in Kuwait. And I think it's a good sign from heaven. Now for the question. Have you considered in the committee the possibility of, say, considering this issue of voting after the war is over, when it's really clear whether our battalion will need to be involved to protect Kuwait's civilian population? And the second question. Have not those who submitted these documents been asked to contact the United Nations with a request for such a peaceable and peaceable status as the peacekeeping battalion? And then, of course, our military officers would have a very different status. They were protected in accordance with UN documents and mandates and, including funding, would be quite different. Have you not asked those who have submitted these documents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u61	From the last. This was not our question, since it was clear to us that action was taking place contrary to the will of the Security Council. And the address at this point, you see, was gathered yesterday at a meeting of the Security Council, as the United States, Britain, has done. Well, you can see how order is being established in the world. That's the first one. The other one. I would welcome such a question, and the committee itself did not consider that, in fact, delaying until the situation was clarified. If the company were to complete, and there would be a need for some, in fact, humanist actions to be carried out, that could be considered. And about that. Sadly, dear Igor, there is nothing secret in nature that does not become manifest. And people understand that, and unfortunately that's not a guarantee that there's really going to be free expression. And here's the time of truth. Let's do it, because in time, we're going to have to be in front of our people and look them in the eye. Let everyone be evaluated.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u62	Mikhailo Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u63	Please pass the word to Bokiu, the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u64	Ivan Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u65	Dear George Korniyovich, the radio just reported that Iraq has launched two rockets in Kuwait, and you know very well that these missiles are falling as well as Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk's missiles. Do you think President Kuchma is afraid of the curse of the Ukrainian people to the tenth knee for saving his skin, for sending our boys to war and forcing the curse of the conformists and co-collombers in the Supreme Council of Ukraine? And the second. Don't you think it's a national disgrace for Bitch and his team to lead a battalion in a war zone? And did you not address Mr. Tobacco, who seems to have just come out, whether you're ready to fly to Kuwait as battalion commissioner to prove your Ukrainian patriotism and loyalty to the partnership of Ukraine and the United States? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u66	Dear John Sidorovich, unfortunately, no Globe, no Nostradamus, and I can't read the thoughts of others I think. But how I feel about this action and how I feel about the highest political leadership, I think I made it clear. There probably won't be two explanations here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u67	National MP Simonov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u68	Simonov, Company faction. Please pass the word to Valentine Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u69	Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u70	Thank you. Matthew, the Communist faction. George Korniyovich, first of all, as the chairman of the regulatory committee, I would like to ask you, did you pay attention to this question, which you are now reporting from the rostrum, to the meeting of your committee yesterday, or do the documents submitted by the President of Ukraine for consideration by the Supreme Council meet first of all the requirements of the Rules? What I am pointing to is the attention of my distinguished colleagues. If you open page 20-21 of the documents given to us, that is, an explanatory note, it goes into the eyes of what? What did the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Secretary of Defense sign this explanatory note, but when is it unknown or late last year prepared just in case, or when? Because only March 17th was the exchange of relevant documents between Ukraine and Kuwait. President Kuchma has already signed these documents as the subject of the legislative initiative. So where is the truth? And the second. Georgi Korniyovich. I'm sorry, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm done. On page 8, it is about financing the work of the battalion. Even so, it is written here, unless otherwise agreed according to a separate arrangement, the financing of the battalion’s activities is provided by the Ukrainian side. So where is the truth? Who's funding whether we're from the budget by robbing our people or funding our generous Americans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u71	Sadly, we did not notice that the date was not set there. That's a good point. I think all the members of the committee, like me, share your point. I could have caused such inadequacies. It's about compensation. Well, the agreement itself reads, "The payment of compensations to the personal composition of the battalion is provided by the Ukrainian side." But from this rostrum, the reporter was told, and I was quoting what there is to this conversation with the third party. The third party is the party that is pressing for Ukraine to send a battalion. Well, I'd just like to add that that's not how it's done. Americans know what they're doing. You remember the Busher contract that was broken and what you promised us. We didn't get anything. And now the big ones needed to talk at all levels to the highest, until it was probably what was written here, what they promised. But I don't know, this is the case: they promised to have fun, and what it would be, I don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u72	National Deputy Dobkin. A group called Democratic Initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u73	Mikhail Dobkin, "Democratic Initiatives", town of Harkov. Dear Georgi Korneevich, I don't welcome war like any sane person. I would never have agreed against it and never in my life that our soldiers should be involved in any conflict. But I want to ask you something like that. That's how the head of the committee looks at you as slightly one-sided about what's going on in Iraq and the presence of our battalion in Iraq so far virtually. It's not my job to bomb Iraq and the civilian population. I don't want kids, women, old people to get hurt in any way. But why didn't you, by telling you this, ever touch on the subject of those children, old men and women who die from terrorist acts in Israel? Those people who die from terrorist acts in America are those terrorist acts that were blessed and financed by Saddam Hussein. Tell me, please, if our battalion were meant to deal with the consequences of a terrorist act, would it also be considered to be participating in a war on the side of the coalition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u74	First of all, dear colleague Dobkin, I reject your claim of unilaterality. I was based on documents and cited documents. That's the first one. Second. I did not refer to the issue of terror against Israel, nor to terrorism against the people of Palestine, nor to other issues; this is not the subject of today's debate. You'll have to say, the Odessites say you need a song, and I've got it. I'll tell you when it's necessary. And with regard to the hypothetical situation, if the question were to be asked after what happened, it would probably be another situation and we would probably have treated it differently. What's this all about? What we are being raped and, as Mr. Rumsfeld was quoted as saying, we need to resolve this urgently, because in the case of Iraq, it is very important that the coalition be overthrown. You see, at the United Nations, it was not possible to gather the majority of them - they withdrew the resolution. And now there are 45 people in the coalition, States, and 15 of them ask not to disclose them, so their rulers fear their own peoples. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u75	Vladimir Spivacuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u76	Please pass the word to Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u77	Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u78	Dear National Deputies! Dear George Korniyovich, I still have another question to ask you. Just after the Ukrainian media reported that two missiles had been launched in Kuwait from Iraq. I have a clear question. In case 500 of our military personnel are put in such danger, in case you don't give a god, and an Israeli god, and a Christian god, and a Muslim god, will let these missiles hit our boys, who, specifically, will legally be responsible for the death of our citizens -- parliament, and its part that wants to hide behind ballots in secret and vote in favour; Marcus or the President of Ukraine, who was actually the initiator of this change of fate for the fate of 500 boys there in Kuwait? I wonder who will be specifically responsible for the likelihood of death of our people?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u79	Dear colleague, well, God forbid, if this happens, of course, the moral responsibility will be borne by Parliament and, above all, those who vote in favour of the directional decision. Political responsibility should be borne by all those involved in making such a decision, especially after the discussion that is taking place today. This will be in line with the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u80	Yes, Georgi Korniyovich, thank you. Time's up. Let's move on to the discussion. I'm asking, as we agreed, the faction leaders and factions to apply. The word is given by Julia Timoshenko, director of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko. Prepare Alexander the Frost. I'd like the factions to make their offer. Applications, please, give it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u81	Julia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues! Leonid Makarovich, I ask a little attention and respect for your colleagues in Parliament. I'd like to start by saying that the question that we're discussing right now, it's a sign, it's a significant event. I know that many people, both in the majority and in the opposition, understand this situation well. And you don't have to say that these are peacemaking things, we all know, all of us who will vote against it, who will vote against it, that there is no peacemaking action, that it is practically on the side of one country in military action against Iraq. And with that, we have to close the subject. The moral aspect of the subject. Please tell us why a powerful country like the United States is 532 of our people. Why finance Ukraine so powerful financially, economically, like the United States? Do you think this is critical for such a country? And I want to talk about the moral aspect. For the United States, the most important aspect of compassion and complicity in such events is the greatest number of countries in the world. They've announced 35 countries, we can become the 36th today. I know it's been a while, but I want to say that I've been reading some special literature, and there are a few things that I want to say. For example, professional gangs that are in the world are, for example, professional gangs. take young people into their ranks, giving them a test. What kind of exam is this? It is a young man who must approach an elderly woman in a popular place and spit in his eyes. And then this guy's part of the gang. This means that morals are already alienated and no longer contain anything. You know, that kind of experience, sometimes when people are forced to just kill people in public, and that's a complicity. Today, Ukraine is offered such a complicity. As far as we're concerned, we don't have to vote for it. Of course, many of us are people who are addicted, but we have to put down at least this vote and vote unequivocally against sending our boys to practically participate in military action. There's still an economic aspect that I'd like to express. Imagine, many countries that work with the United States in this direction are asking clear material questions, realizing that this is an absolute war of sign and oil. Some have broken quotas, for example, Turkey has demanded a share of tens of billions of dollars to give them. What does Ukraine do? It's tens and tens of millions of dollars that she's going to finance herself. It's just like we totally gave up nuclear weapons with you for free, that's what we did with you just for the sake of certain leaders. And the final sentence, dear friends, no secret vote! Just eyes to eyes, face to face and print about this vote with a million circulations across Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u82	Thank you. Alexander Alexanderus Frost of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Get ready for Hubby.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, I wanted to express my opinion of the Socialist Party on this subject. But first, I would like to deny Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov that someone is raping us about the need to send this battalion. No, we're the ones who came out and offered ourselves. Because the American side has absolutely nothing to do with our battalion, and everyone understands that, except for one moral aspect. But I am speaking to the representatives of the United States, here are the representatives of the Embassy: Who have you contacted, people good? Look, you sold your earrings yesterday, and today, to look good in front of you, because you have to sit behind the French alphabet in Prague at the summit and elsewhere, let's offer you another battalion. [[That's what you set, not us.]] I think this nature right here is, like, you know, very low, it's not humane, it explains the essence of what's going on. This is not about the democratic regime in Iraq or anything. But we have our Hussain, let's figure out what else we can do? So once again, we're leaving the U.S. and Iraq behind. There's someone out there to figure it out. Let's figure out what's going on here. According to George Korniyovich, who will be subject to this battalion as evidenced by the documents. What are the possible consequences then for Ukraine? We're sitting on a powder barrel, don't you all know that? With our artificial seas, nuclear reactors, with everything else and wealth, and the scourge that is now in Ukraine. We need to be very careful not to divorce our high - humanistic mission. Our level of humanism was demonstrated when a Russian plane was shot down with Israeli passengers. Remember, it was said that there was no need to be a tragedy in this regard. And now we're divorcing that we're so protective. I agree with those suggestions. If there is trouble, if this tragedy is over, and those who need help should go, we should help, perhaps at our own expense. Today, it is time to submit to one person who is responsible for the authority of the State, the fate of many people in Ukraine. I think it's a superior example of being rude to, above all, your people. Now let's see. In order to convince Parliament, the American president came and spent four hours in Congress talking about the need for this step. The German chancellor entered his parliament, and the time came to advocate for his position as parliamentarians. For nine hours, Blair, in the English Parliament, proved the need to support the anti-terrorist coalition. And then yesterday, nine representatives of the majority called out to themselves and said, "This is the way to vote. First question. And the second is not to vote in favour of the Electoral Act on a proportional basis." Because he's, you see, a parliamentary-presidential form of government. How much you can do with these ambiguities that are completely out of place for open honest politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u84	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u85	I'm done. I'll end with a quote, maybe. "Sit on the barrel--don't play with matches, even if it's empty, just like your head." We need to be careful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u86	Bogdan Hubski from the People's Authority MP group. Next is Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u87	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Every war, for whatever reason, is a disastrous way to resolve interstate relations, and the war in Iraq is no exception. All mankind has been trampled upon by modern - day and future sacrifices. War is a great tribulation. And I'm against people fighting. And I am 100 times against our Ukrainians fighting. So if today the question was that someone in Ukraine wanted to send our fellow countrymen to battle, I would always vote against it. Convinced that you too will be against this vote. But every war has its consequences. And they're consistent with the consequences of the most tragic disasters. The consequences of war need to be eliminated sooner or later, and humanitarian aid is needed. History knows heroic acts, the black dangerous work of thousands of doctors, nurses, mine seekers, our peacekeepers in the Balkans. A bacteriological defense battalion mission may be similar in some way. Our experts can only go to Kuwait for a humane purpose. In addition, we are taking into account today's firm assurance by the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the defence ministers and foreign affairs that the battalion is fully formed by volunteer contractors. As a result, the People's People's Democratic Group today, after a lengthy discussion, caused solely by the concern for the fate of our people far from the Fatherland, decided to grant consent to the battalion at the request of the Government of Kuwait. At the same time, the People's Government MPs, at the request of our constituents, with whom we have consulted, are strongly opposed to the battalion's participation in military operations. This is our unanimity requirement for our electorate. The group also invites Ukraine’s foreign minister to address the United Nations with a request to give our battalion the mandate of the United Nations, let it remain in Kuwait. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u88	From the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine is invited to Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk. [[united]] Get ready for the Desert.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u89	Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to calm down because everyone today has the right to say his or her opinion. You can agree with it or disagree with it, but you can't interfere if it's really a parliament, if it's really a high political culture. Here's what I'd like to say. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, when the issue of conflict in the Persian Gulf was resolved, took a reasonable stand and voted and voted all: both the majority and the opposition. Similarly, the Head of State took the same position to resolve matters, not by means of strong methods, but through the United Nations, through negotiations. I'm pleased to say that the social-democratic party of Ukraine has taken such a balanced position. But today, regardless of our will and our desire, war has begun. And we condemn war as a way to solve any issue. But since the war has begun, and we will not be able to stop it, I want to translate this issue from political to public. That is, whether Ukraine needs to be outside, whether its house should be remote, or people everywhere, and we will protect only ourselves, whether we should help people with possible use of chemical, biological, and other weapons. I tend to think that it is more important to help one person today. And for me today is an example of, say, a civilized country, which is Germany. You know how the German people are fighting war and Chancellor Schroeder, but Germany has sent its battalion because they understand there are military actions and there are humanitarian actions. And I, and our faction today have been looking at this issue at this very point of view. I know that historians will study who is to blame, who is not to blame. I don't want to say that. Those who fail to comply with the decisions of the United Nations are guilty. And whatever we say, since 1991, 17 resolutions have been adopted after Iraq's disarmament. None were executed. Other countries do not. Ukraine has the right to call upon all to comply with the decisions of the United Nations, and today to act in accordance with its humanitarian status. We went through Chernobyl, we know what radiation is. Our people know what it's like to be impressed by any kind of chemical or biological pressure. So we urge you to reject anything and to act on humanistic goals. And in conclusion, I want to make sure that we're not scared and that we don't have to be scared. We will act according to our will, and we do not need any secret ballots. I will vote, as my conscience commands, to protect one person there, in the Persian Gulf, not to raise my hands and cry, "Don't! You don't have to!"..
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u90	Dear National Deputies! Well, let's at least show tolerance in the session room. The leader of the faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine, Valerius Pavlovich Pashtowatenko, is invited to the presentation. Get ready from Our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u91	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The People's Democratic Party shares and advocates the fundamental principles of modern international politics and international law. The principle of peaceful coexistence under which States are bound to maintain international peace, to show tolerance among themselves, and to cooperate with one another. The principle of peaceful settlement of disputes, which requires that participants in international relations resolve the problems that arise by peaceful means so as not to endanger international peace, security and justice. The principle of non-interference in internal affairs, which places on the nations of the world the obligation not to intervene directly or indirectly for any reason, which does not fall within the competence of one State or another. The People's Democratic Party insists that no country, regardless of its size, of military power, of economic strength, of a kind of political regime, of a form of government and of state government and under any right, has the right to violate any of these principles. As a result, the People's Democratic Party condemns the beginning of the war against Iraq, stressing the lack of full use of peaceful means to resolve the problems around the country. We are considering the war that has begun as a threat to the integrity and effectiveness of the United Nations, to the unity of Europe and to the Europeans, and we call on the international community to take all possible steps to bring about the most active end of military action and to minimize human casualties immediately to restore the process of diplomatic settlement. Dear friends! As I prepared for today’s session, I remembered what happened in 1986 when the Chernobyl events began. Then it was the right time, and while I was running the "Dnistromehanization" trust, I sent people to Chernobyl who worked there, who got disabled, and a few years later they turned to me as the head of the Mesquikonkano, saying, "Valeriy Pavlovich, they went for help." And by what means? Get a place. I say: "Well, you're working in a cane, -- I was also a management cane, -- but you're standing in line, you've got to get an apartment." They told me, "Valeri Pavlovich, and the people of Chernobyl, you sent us to Chernobyl." I remember those words to this day. That's why I want to talk to the national deputies and to everyone here so that we can think about where we're sending people. And we send them, indeed, to war. [[Applause]] And I want to say that it's not easy for me to make a decision. They said I was at this "four" meeting yesterday, and I was at this meeting, and I'm not. I'm invited to these meetings today. It's not easy for me to make a decision. I want to say that we should all of you, after the appropriate decision, if it is made, make a commitment that we will make and fulfill all the requests and all the consequences of what will be done in Chernobyl. And I want to say, I'm going to do it on my own. The faction decided to vote freely and freely on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u92	Thank you. From "Our Ukraine," the block, the factions of "Our Ukraine," Victor Andryovich Yushchenko. Get ready from the Company, who's going to be speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u93	Honorable Predestination! Dear Parliament! Dear National Deputies! I'd like to start with a general. Today's next time, Parliament is faced with an important choice. My first question that Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz took from me: Why is there no head of this country in the hall? [[Applause]] . Why isn't there a President in this room? In order for Parliament to understand the logic that led the President when he had previously made similar decisions. I don't think the Secretary's position or arguments for national security are enough to get close to a consolidated decision here. And that's why we need to understand that we're dealing with issues of national importance. And the President's seat is in this room. It's from the general. The other one. Dear friends, you haven't thought about why we're going to be in Parliament now in dissension and opposition. And the reason is, in twelve years, this room has never considered the question of the foreign policy of the country. The party is swinging, the line is swinging, and all the people's deputies are swinging together. [[Applause]] So, Your Honor, we need to accept one structure. The Ukrainian Parliament is the party that forms the external course of the country. Period. Then we don't have a split on the episodes. And essentially. In fact, I wanted to say the following, dear friends. What is the logic of our discussion today? Do we choose how in every speech I hear, choose the answer to the question between war and peace? Yes, Your Honor, this is evil. I think you know that in half a fourth fact happened. There is war, and you are not asked whether there is peace or war. There is a war. Now the question is. Any normal person in this room will say, "Listen, in the choice between war and peace, what do you choose?" But of course, it's a peaceful settlement. But the fact has happened, dear friends. Wait, wait. Diplomacy didn't answer, diplomacy didn't answer how to settle it. The other one. What choice is there between us today? The choice today is how we react to war and its consequences. And the question here is, what is the reaction of the Ukrainian Parliament to what is called the consequences, which today are obviously the victims who may need the assistance that the relevant party should provide. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, yes. Dear friends, wait. Dear friends, in order for us to listen to each other, I propose that in order to answer this choice, where we are, we should be guided by Polish interest, neither Russian nor American nor French, nor Ukrainian. And the Ukrainian interest, in my view, consists of three components, first, in the issue of war and peace, Ukraine should take a position on establishing control over conflict through the United Nations Security Council -- the first, fundamental, honorable friends. First and foremost. This should become the first official position of Ukraine. Second, in the matter of war and its consequences, minimize the consequences, and in the context of the results it will receive, provide appropriate peace - relief. And lastly, by procedure, dear friends, no closed vote, none. Let us learn in this room to look each other in the eye and make appropriate political decisions. And may your conscience guide you to your choice?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u94	Thank you. From the faction of the Communists of Ukraine, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, right? One moment, please calm down. From the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich will speak. Prepare Ivy Ivan Stepanovich. May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! On behalf of our faction and the Communist Party of Ukraine, I officially declare: we Communists are categorically opposed to war, and in this case against the war waged by the United States of America in the Middle East against the people of Iraq. We categorically oppose the participation of the military, the people of Ukraine in hostilities. And I would like to refer here to those who today, while invoking practically their position, speak of some of the interests of the people of Ukraine that must be protected in Iraq by sending our boys there. Don't be foolish, gentlemen. Then I will understand you if you go to this rostrum, and Mr. Kravchuk said, "I am sending my son and grandson to fight for the interests of the people of Ukraine in Iraq." At first, Blasco was robbed, received millions in the Swiss bank and fed, and starved, while the Iraqi people killed there, and destroyed 400,000 children already because of the embargo and the blockades that applied. I would like to ask my respectable friends today, and respectable colleagues, to think about it, to ask about it. Ukraine is the founder of the United Nations. And for some reason, without United Nations authorization, a military or military unit is now deployed to Iraq. Are we out of the United Nations? Or do we now have another so-called philosophy? It is therefore only the second, I answer the question that is being asked here, why there is no President, and because the staff department in Washington has been available for Ukraine for the past 12 years. That's why there's no President here. There's no one here who has to be responsible for everything that's going on. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we will be categorically opposed to voting in favour of sending our troops to the Middle East. We must understand that we will thus destroy the world security system and, above all, the United Nations. Furthermore, we will not be held accountable to the world community for all that will have consequences after the end of this war. I don't want anyone here today from this rostrum to talk about who's at war and who's at home. The people of Iraq have been accused of terrorism. But terrorism is the birthplace of the United States of America. And it was they who supported the drug business and the drug industry, they were trading guns at hot spots, they were bringing up all those they were trying to fight today. If we are talking about Ukraine as an independent State, then politics must be independent and, by no means, not participate in our military units in these hostilities. And I would now like to address our colleagues as women. Whatever factions you're in, dear. You can at least show the men who decided to vote in favour of the movement here, using the mandate after the President's pressure yesterday, at least vote. God forbid your son will be sent to this battalion now. Do any of you women, dear, have your hand held up to press the button today so that someone else's son would die there for the sake of American capital? Or maybe you and I are forgetting that by sending this battalion, we will thus create the assumption that women of Iraq will lose their children. That today, missiles, let's say, are being directed to some unknown object, either to specific objects in Baghdad, and the people of Baghdad, the people of Iraq, are being destroyed. Dear female colleagues, please, if you will step out of this control, which is under pressure on the presidential factions today, and vote against it. The Communist faction categorically condemns any attempt today to support the President's initiative and considers those who vote for it to be traitors to the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u96	From the Democratic Initiative Group, John Plush has to prepare for the "Regions of Ukraine". Is there anyone out there who wants to go from "Regions"?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u97	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, dear listeners. I'm asking you to consider my speech not to be a comment, but I want to make some clarifications. Viktor Andryovich said that in 12 years of Ukrainian parliamentaryism, foreign policy was never discussed in this room. And I want to say, Victor Andryovich, that this room in 1993 was looking at the principles of foreign and domestic politics, and it was decided accordingly. But we were in another phase of democracy back then. That is why I remember that this was allowed at the time. And yet in the hall, despite the fact that there was a group of 239, it was governed by state interests. The other one. Leonid Makarovich said that we are the people that carried Chernobyl, and that's true. But let us remember who and how this people were treated during and after the Chernobyl tragedy. I can testify with all due respect to the superstate, to the United States, but half of the promises that were related to Chernobyl and disarmament and the closure of the Chernobyl station remained on paper. I'm saying more. So we have to be honest here that the tragedy of the Ukrainian people, the tragedy of Chernobyl, I would say that, optionally, it's soft to say, and then, and today. Third. Gruck's Georgi Korniyovich was like, "When were the papers formed?" I'm bringing you back to our controlled media, unless you've heard that Kuwait hasn't even spoken yet, that there was no position yet known to be at the United Nations, that the American side was either going to fight or not there, that the experts were working there, and we were handed over in the morning and evening: there was a National Security Council meeting, which unanimously decided to send the battalion and a draft President's decree. And we'll send him to the Supreme Council when a country asks. Isn't that funny? It's ridiculous and tragic. Instead of laughing, the posters are correct. But we're a country, we used to be proud that we're a country projected in the world, that we're a peaceful country, and we wrote in the Declaration of State Sovereignty that we're a neutral state. So what we do is we jump out of our pants where it's about whether they're going to fight or not. And the last. I mean, that. Here my colleague cited examples of cooperation, in cooperation with the presidents, governments and parliament. I want to give you one last example. We've been talking for a year in May about this kind of cooperation. Where does this scandal come from, then, on the budget, and yet on this subject, is it directed or not directed today? So all of this comes from this so-called, "close" collaboration. And the last. A group of Democratic Initiatives -- you know, kind of a group. There are those who want to get away from the majority and there are those who are not released from the majority.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u98	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u99	So she could not make a consolidated decision. And I didn't make a decision. My personal position and the position of many of the members of our group is that there should be no hurry. We were told that there was a weapon of mass destruction. That's when they find the guns, then it'll be one thing. And we don't know what's going to be there yet, and we're ready. That's why. Thank you for your attention. I wouldn't make that decision today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u100	Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk is invited from the deputy faction of political parties of industrialists and entrepreneurs of Ukraine and Trudova Ukraine to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u101	I thank the distinguished Communists for such a wonderful welcome. I think you'll like it. Dear colleagues! At 4: 30 a.m. this morning, the whole world felt that the world’s security institutions, the world society, had failed to prevent war. And today we're all in this solidarity. The war began. Trouble has begun. I'm against the categorically and factions of entrepreneurs and industrialists, the Hard Ukraine of force, of war. But a fact has come to pass. We had many arguments today, and we had dealings with the United States, Iraq, and others. But we didn’t think of people who are already victims, and every minute there will be more, more and more. We have argued today and thank the National Deputies for mentioning those whom we consider to be referring to the State of Kuwait. But these are just conversations, but these are just political declarations, the war has begun. It will not end today or tomorrow, people will die. Today, we need to think about helping those who have approached us. The Persian Gulf countries turned to all over the world, the nation of Kuwait turned to several countries, and it felt like an occupation, and it felt like using weapons of mass destruction. And today, countries that have responded, including our country that is considering this issue, are the last hope. I want to emphasize once again, definitely me and the faction against war, we condemn it, but we're here to give it to people who are suffering. And one more thing. You don't have to take dividends when you mention our boys, you have to do something for them. So the faction of entrepreneurs and industrialists and the Labour Ukraine tasked me to prepare a draft Supreme Council ruling, where the Supreme Council proposes to apply at least once its rights to parliamentary control and to create a temporary parliamentary commission that will study the question of the battalion, how the state has taken care of it, how the state protects it and provides it. Our faction proposes to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u102	Vasil Nadraga is speaking from the People's Choice Group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! Respectable radio audiences! The war that we are talking about today has been discussed and discussed for a long time. This morning our parliamentary group last discussed this subject and there are several positions I would like to address. First. The People's Choice Group condemns war as such in principle in all its components. And in this case, we do not believe that it is possible to assess who is the right, who is wrong, because war is not the way to resolve any foreign policy decisions. Next moment. Condemnation of war and how it can go. We are well aware that in 1991, when Kuwait was completely destroyed when the issue of environmental disaster arose, we are now remembering just as some of the individual participants in this process today say that in the event of a war it will be bad for all. And the fact that the peaceful population will be affected to this day, I think there is no doubt about it. The military are military, but the peaceful population has neither shelter nor hymn defence -- nothing that makes the peaceful population invulnerable. Therefore, it does not mean that he is completely in solidarity with all those in this room today who say that it does not mean that they are involved in the war. The peaceful population, independent of what country it belongs to, is a peaceful population. Old people and children, and everyone else we love to talk to you about, is the population. On the basis of what has been said, the People's Choice Group stands ready to support the shipment of a battalion of chemical weapons as a military unit that will deal exclusively with the protection of the civilian population. Thank you. VOICES FROM THE PLACE. Shame, shame, shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u104	Yes, from the faction "European Choice," who will be speaking? You don't? From the Ukrainian Agrarian Party? So that's when all the factions came out. One minute of the lineup is Kravchuk Leonid Makarovich. Just a minute. The Microphone of the Shufrich People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u105	Thank you, Your Honor. The speaker mentioned the name Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk, leader of the Faction of the SDPU. [[B in m in s a l in]] VOICES FROM THE PLACE. Shame, shame, shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, please, calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u107	I want to emphasize -- united Social Democrats against war. But we can't help but help if we can, because there are only a few specialized military units in the world. With regard to children and grandchildren. We are for them, their parents, and their grandparents to be always outside the threat of their lives. Today, though, it is these grandchildren and children who may receive the last hope of preserving life from our specialists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u108	Yes, the honourable national deputies, of the Boris Ilchi Oilynik procedure. We already made a deal. If it's your will, there'll be a sequel. I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u109	Thank you, fellow believers, for today the world has awakened in a state of war; today, after the blows, the first victims will never wake up again. And today is the first time I'd like to address the President personally. I realize that the head’s work schedule is so tight that he sometimes has to make decisions by making recommendations to his advisers. Actually, there's nothing so special about this. But this time, I would ask the President to spend time alone with him to figure out who and for what purpose he advised him to deploy a battalion to the Persian Gulf, an area that Americans are going to turn into a mess of blood, oil, and scattered Iraqi bodies. Is it not now a noble peacekeeping mission under the United Nations? By deploying a battalion in friendly Kuwait, we are directly taking the side of a wild aggressor who, under cover of disarmament, and the weapons of mass destruction have never been found, simply took the initiative to prove to the world who is the real master, spitting at the borders of the eyes of both his allies and the UN, and even the pope himself. And it seems that this monster won't stop even before we use nuclear weapons. And the fact that it's not a fantasy game is true of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. And isn't it the tip of cynicism to lure us to Kuwait before evacuating everyone from there to the only Americans? So we ask the gentleman on the branch, then the zinc graves or who pays, and we order the graves? Let's get ahead of the coming Armageddon, millions of people have gone out on the streets, into the terrains of megapolises, cities, and towns to stop these killers alive. So who's forcing us to go against the will of the peace-loving nations so that, for the first time in all of Ukraine's history, her name will be stained with the indelible brand of aggressor lieutenant? Who needs us to call upon the wrath of the Arab world, or even bring a poisonous family of terrorism into our home? Already among the nations, tectonic divisions have broken out. But war finally separates the world from those who went along with Bush and Blair under Satan’s mark to kill and. With the name of God to the last stood in defense of life on earth. We're with God.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear people's deputies, one minute, calm down. What do you show for what reason? Please calm down. Dear colleagues, you and I have made a decision -- a report, a report, a report, answers to questions. We've been working for two hours. Now, one minute. Please, calm down. You can sign up. Let's make a decision. If you insist on discussing it, let's vote for it, let's make a decision. All of it. If not, let's keep working. That's it. I think everyone's determined, everyone's got their own decision. I invite you to the rostrum of Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk for a closing statement and ask Georgi Korniyovich to prepare himself as well. Please. You don't have to write it down. I say again, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, as Parliament will decide, so will they. "Nondature Tertium" is not listed in the third. As you vote, so be it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u112	Eugene Kirilovich, one minute. Calm down. Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down. I'm voting on the proposal. So once again, let me remind you that it's been agreed that we're going to consider this for about two hours. We've considered it. Any other suggestions? I'm voting on the proposal. I ask you not to interfere, the deputies are entitled, except for your rights, you have responsibilities, and carry out your duties. Get out of here. I'm putting to the vote the proposal that came out here to continue the discussion for another hour. Please make up your mind. [[12:08:26]] For 158. The factions, please. Eugene Kirilovich, please have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u113	Dear national deputies, today’s sharp discussion is a reflection of not only the attitude of the deputies but of the entire Ukrainian nation toward war. And all that talk about war today is that we're all contemporaries, not to mention that it's repeatedly fixed in the right decisions. As Parliament will adopt, so will it. The only thing I would like to say is that when the decision is made not to send our battalion for rescue work, there are already two appropriate military structures such as our battalion, Czech Republic, Slovakia. If our battalion is not to leave, the readiness of Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Macedonia has already been expressed. We won't go, there won't be any tragedies, there will be others, there will be others, there will be rescues, there will be lifesavers. The other one. When can our battalion go to the location if a positive decision is made? This is 89 flights of 8 flights per day with three days of preparation of the previous one. So our battalion will actually arrive at the site in 15 days. I don't know what's left of military potential. And the last. Procedure. There were comments and replications that sort of didn't work like that. I'm reminding you. That, according to the Law on the Order of Assignments of the Armed Forces to Foreign States, the invitation of the State has not been provided for by law since 2000. The Security Council accepted this item at the request of Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, who took part in the Security Council meeting and made an offer to send the battalion only when the country was invited. That is why Ukraine received such an invitation on March 6. And last of all for those who. I'll read it. The State of Kuwait is pleased to invite the Ukrainian battalion of radiological, chemical and bacteriological protection to participate in the protection of the civilian population and to eliminate the possible consequences of the use of mass media in Kuwait. The State of Kuwait also expresses its willingness to submit documents with the Ukrainian side that arrange for the deployment of the battalion. March 6th. And the last. For those who suggest that we refer and listen to what Russia says and do. I quote: there has been a meeting today, and perhaps there is a meeting of the Russian government. I quote from Cassianov: “The Russians must provide the necessary assistance, which we always provide to citizens suffering from the conflict”. Let's see that we don't have the Russian battalion there before, because Russia didn't show up earlier in the 20s in NATO than in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u114	Yes, from the Committee of Georgi Korniyovich Kruchkov. Prepare Player from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please, Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u115	Actually, I don't have to conclude anything. I just wanted to say two things. First. Well, frankly, I'm surprised by the logic. We are against war, but we must send our people where they may die. That's a very interesting logic! That's the first one. And the second. I wouldn't want us to look at anyone in this matter, whether it's the United States, whether it's Russia, whether it's Bush, or Cassianova. To guide our national interests, the interests of our people. Guys! As far as this is concerned. If we want to bring about an alien disaster, vote in favour of directing the battalion. But our people need to know who will do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u116	From the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Grachev, please. First Deputy Head of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u117	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Georgi Korniyovich has already brought to you the results of the vote yesterday by our committee on these issues. I would just like to point out that yesterday on the committee, in answer to a question, Eugene Kirilovich admitted that the basis for the decision of the Security Council was, above all, the appeal of the United States. Only then, at our request, did the State of Kuwait consent to the presence of our battalion. That's the first one. The other one. It takes $12.5 million to send a battalion there and keep the deadline indicated. And that's from the Ukraine budget. It is said that costs will be borne by the third party. And when we gave the passage corridor to Afghanistan, four million dollars went out, according to help. How much did this nation pay us back? Zero! And the last. These documents, which we were handed out yesterday, may not have everyone's attention, say that the battalion will be part of a coalition united force under the leadership of the military commanders of the Central Command of the U.S. Armed Forces and direct management of the battalion is relying on the headquarters of Kostra. The skeletons are commanding the United States region. Therefore, the committee made a decision yesterday to reject the two bills tabled by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen. Calm down! From the procedure, the chairman of the regulatory committee has, please. We haven't moved yet. We need to agree on the order of our next job.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u119	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. First of all, I would like to ask my fellow national MPs not to violate the requirements of the Constitution and the Ukrainian Supreme Council's Rules on Obligation - I stress - the obligation to vote personally on the issues that we are currently considering. Moreover, do not take, fellow believers, sin upon your soul, voting for those in the hospital today, on expeditions and so forth. And the second. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address you. The vote that is about to take place is not just a special meaning, a political weight, but today the attention of the entire people of Ukraine is attached to it. Therefore, according to the results of the vote, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask you, by the results of the vote, to name you more flurically as I voted in favour of these, on this issue, whether another faction or a parliamentary group separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u120	Okay, okay. Dear National Deputies! Well, wait for motive, calm down. Let's define now. For reasons of what? We haven't come yet. We haven't agreed to vote. Let's define the voting order, and then we'll talk for a reason. I remember everything, I know everything, Ivan Sidorovich, sit down. Alexander, sit down. It's okay. Dear colleagues, we have a bill, two bills introduced by the President of Ukraine. They're automatically considered part of the agenda, and we've discussed them. Besides, I'm saying, calm down, you've talked 10 years in advance. In addition, the honourable colleagues who had introduced the draft decree, two draft decrees by the People’s Deputy Rudzkowski on inadmissibility. Under the Rules, we should vote first on these draft regulations. In addition, there are three other draft decrees - number 3179-1, author John Boki and a group of national deputies, 3179 - Taras Czarnovil and 3179-2 Yuri Karmazin. But these bills, first, I want you to listen very carefully here, not included in the agenda; secondly, they are rejected by the committee, because the right of legislative initiative is precisely in these matters by the National MP. I'm asking you to show me your stamina once in a while, and you're always writing complaints at me. I'll have to write to you. Calm down, please. So, dear fellows, we're going to have this order right now. I would like to propose to the first to be unacceptable, after which, depending on the outcome of the vote, I would ask the committee head to express his point of view on the three bills that have been tabled, and then we would vote with appropriate motivation and justification. Is there no objection? Please, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov. In secret? Then we'll put the vote to a secret vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u121	First. I spoke to the committee about the secret ballot. We find it inappropriate to keep it closed. That's the first one. The other one. Regarding the vote on the offer of Rudzkowski's colleague for inadmissibility. The Rules require that these bills be put in place first. Regarding the other three bills. The Bill of John Sidorovich Boki and others. So we've considered this. But since this bill raises the question of sending the battalion in a row. We haven't really considered this, this is the other side. As to how to resolve the questions about the deployment of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other states, as far as this bill does not agree, the committee did not support it. Regarding the bill of colleague Carmazin. It contains two moments. First moment. He supports the President's proposal. That's the first one. About the route. Then he defines the composition, the composition of the battalion led by the President of Ukraine. And the third. Yes, and another thing is that John Sidorovich Boki's project is presented in the form of a decision. Such matters are resolved by the law of Ukraine. Third moment. No, no, I'm not talking about you. And the third point is that there are two points in Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin’s project that present the task to the United Nations. It's probably a little too much for us to take on. That's why the committee decided not to support this bill, but if we decide on another bill, Yuri Anatoliyevich can submit his additions on the basis of the bill because he supports the battalion's direction before. And the Bill of People's Deputies, Taras Cranovil. Since it does not comply with the requirements of the law on the order of dispatching troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other states, the committee could not support it either. That's exactly what I'm talking about. We actually didn't consider these issues, we only considered them from the point of view of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u122	Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, let's propose this procedure: we go first, we have to consider the decision on inadmissibility. We'll vote and see the results. I'm asking Rudzkowski to give me a basis for his proposal. Next, Your Honor, we're going to do everything in turn, please. It's gonna be okay. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, today is a very important decision that we must make. Today, the National Security Council has proved that it is a national security council that is throwing Ukraine into a state of war. We're voting with you, I'm not talking about the President, he's defending himself. But by voting, we're putting all of Ukraine, our nuclear blocks under attack by terrorists. No Ukrainian can sleep in peace. I want to turn to women right now, to Social Democrats: all of Social-Democratic Europe today has taken a stand against war. I'm personally addressing Victor Andrievich Yushchenka. Victor Andryovich, you've always talked about a small Ukrainian. Today, a small Ukrainian is sent to war. And every voice of your deputy to your faction will be your voice, because this is a vote of principle. Every Socialist voice is the voice of the Frost. And to send for war then will be the majority with Kuchma and Yushchenko with "Our Ukraine." Please do not allow your deputies to vote in favour of sending the battalion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u124	Thank you. For Alla Alexandrovska's reasons, please. Turn on the microphone. Let's vote now, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u125	The Communist faction, Alexandrovsky, the city of Harkov. I draw the attention of the deputies and those present in this room to the fact that we have no other way but to vote on the unacceptability of the Ukrainian laws that have been proposed to us today by the President. For one simple reason. Today, many speakers, including Victor Andreevich Yushchenko, said that the battalion was allegedly being sent to protect Kuwait's civilian population. This is not in harmony with the truth. The functional appointment of these troops is participation in hostilities. These troops are designed to support military equipment and military contingents. This means that our 500 citizens, whom we send to death, will serve the United States contingent, U.S. military equipment and the U.S. troops. This is the appointment of this battalion. So we need to tell the truth. Today, we are putting to the vote the participation of our units on the aggressor's side. Therefore, Victor Andreevich, be honest and tell the people of Ukraine the truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, please don't press me. Dear colleagues, there was a proposal by the people's MP Rudzkowski that the two projects put forward by the President of Ukraine should not be acceptable. What's Yushchenka for? I can't hear anything, don't bother me. I'm going to have to get a line, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u127	Dear people's deputies, I want to. For some reason, many pay too much attention to Yashchenka. Everyone's got pants, and everyone's got to make a decision. Wait a minute. Now, my friends, we are really in the moment of choice. The moment of choice is one: there are politicians who advocate national interests, and they are politicians who seek to betray them. So, dear friends, do not torture yourself, do not torture the electorate, but make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, you have two draft decrees. Leonid Krawchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, it has already become a tradition that there are social democrats on every issue. Once again, I emphasize that it is a pleasure to be noticed and respected. But the second thing I want to say is, we've been and we're going against war. But we emphasize that war is coming today, and we say that if the Ukrainian battalion saves at least one person who is already dying, it will be our humanistic action. And I call on you to be smart and not to engage in demagogies.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, you've been given the draft Order No. 0088/P1 of the Supreme Council. One minute, calm down. Once again, the membrane of your voice is no reason to give a voice. Calm down, please. I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution No. 0088/P1, do not abuse my kindness, please, on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian Act on the ratification of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between Ukraine and the State of Kuwait on the provision of assistance to the 19th individual battalion of radiation, chemical and biological protection of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in the protection of the civilian population of the State of Kuwait against the possible use of weapons of mass impression and the possible consequences of the use of weapons of mass influence in the territory of the State of Kuwait. I'll bet you a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:29:58]] For the 120th. The decision is not taken. The factions. Dear colleagues! Although it doesn't make sense to make a second decision, I'll make one. Please, calm down. What about reading it? Let's do the result, I'll read it. Our Ukraine is in 15. Communists - 59 Ukraine - 0 Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Labour Ukraine - 1 SDU(o) - 0 Deminitatives - 1 Ukrainian Socialist Party - 20 European Choice - 0 People's Landing - 0 Yulia Block Timoshenko - 18 Agrarian Party - 2 NDP-2 People's Choice - 0 Postfraction -2 However, in order to clarify the procedure, I am voting on the second draft of Decree No. 3258/P on the non-admissibility of the draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to send 19 separate battalions of radiation, chemical and biological protection to the Ukrainian Armed Forces to help protect the civilian population of that State from the possible use of weapons of mass influence and to eliminate the possible consequences of the use of weapons of mass destruction in the territory of the State of Kuwait. I'll bet you a vote, please. [[12:31:40]] For-126 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine — 24 Communists - 59 Ukraine - 0 Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of "Trug Ukraine" - 1 Social Democratic Party - 0 [[united]] Democratic Initiatives - 1 Ukrainian Socialist Party - 20 Eurolibrary - 0 People's Landing - 0 Yulia Block Timoshenko - 18 Agrarian Party - 0 NDP-0 People's choice is 0. Postfaction is 3. Dear National Deputies! Well, calm down, please. Please, calm down. What are we talking about? Calm down. Dear National Deputies! Now for the next moment. Dear National Deputies! Three projects were implemented by the National Deputies. You know about them, and you know the position of the committee. But the national MPs insist that their initiative be considered, so I have a proposal like this. Now give 1 minute to justify the drafters and vote for their inclusion in the agenda. So you can figure it out. And after that, we're going to go to the question of the voting procedure in secret, and then we're going to vote. What? Out of procedure, National Deputy Assadchev, please. Well, calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, in this case we will ratify the treaty. We either ratify it or we don't ratify it. There's already a deal, and no one can make an alternative deal, so if you'll excuse me, I'll make it. Let's not do this circus! Now we have to vote on 2 laws. Either we ratify, or we don't ratify, or we approve, or we don't approve -- that's the whole alternative. There's nothing else here. I propose to vote now and to finish this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u132	Please, with the motive of Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u133	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. I signed up, didn't get my word. I asked for a word from the line, I didn't get a word. I'm drawing your attention to four aspects: the political, legal, economic and moral aspects of that agreement. I want you to look at the legal aspect. Legal. None of the parties will file a lawsuit against the other party or on the specific composition of the other’s armed forces regarding the damage suffered by its unit, including those that resulted in death. Everything relies solely on the Ukrainian side! Financing, payment is also provided by the Ukrainian side. Is this chapter 15 part one in our budget or not? It's not in the budget, of course! I'm talking to those people, I wanted to call it another word, but the classic of ours, the Oily said that these are the political bisexuals that the President had here yesterday in his office.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u134	Turn off the microphone. Alexander Frost, please. They said sit down now. The minute's over because of that. I say again, take your seats, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u135	I'm the author of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u136	You haven't reached your turn yet. When the bill comes to order, you'll be speaking. Sit down! Please, Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u137	Alexander Frost, faction of socialists. I'm in charge of the procedure. The question is now included in the order of the day, and it is considered essentially. What Deputy Assadchev said is not at all a denial of voting on other documents relating to the matter. Because it may be accepted or unadopted, but the decree may also be considered in the development of this law. So there's no need to deal with the individual question of including these regulations in the consideration, they're not alternatives, they're just looking at one of the aspects. So let's just say, I don't think these bills will get any support, but we have to go through everything that the Rules provide.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u138	Dear National Deputies, Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, I read you an explanation of the Legal Department. In view of the above, projects number 3179, 3179-1, 3179-2 were not subject to registration as submitted by an inappropriate subject. I've given in to your pressure, registered, I mean the national MPs. Moreover, they are not included in the agenda of this session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is the second moment. At the same time, in the process of considering and adopting a decision on a bill passed by the President, the subject of the legislative initiative may make its proposal in accordance with the rules of the Supreme Council. With regard to inadmissibility, the Legal Authority made it clear that he was voting first. So we're going according to procedure. But in order to withstand all political developments today, I will put a vote on the inclusion of each individual bill in the agenda if not included. Then we will consider them and discuss them. But if they're not included, then we'll move on to the next procedure. Please calm down. So, honourable colleagues, well, I beg you, let's work. That's why I'm like this. Project of the People's Deputy of Boko, 3179-1. Turn on the microphone of the national deputy Bokoko, one minute, and let him argue his position. National deputy Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, in fact, I have nothing to argue with, because all this project knows. It is to be led by the President of Ukraine, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, and his commissioner was Dmitry Volodymyrovich Tobacco, the commanders of the mouths of Medvedchuk, Piscun, Smirnov, Kravchenko and so on. But here's what I want to say. I think the committees have done the wrong thing with this bill. He was brought into the development of the law, the draft law that the President proposed, he's offering only the entire personal composition of the battalion, which I think the entire people of Ukraine would approve. And here's what I'm going to conclude on this bill. I want to make one more point. Victor Andryovich Yushchenko here spoke of the absence of the President. And he's not coming, because he's afraid he's really gonna be sent there.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u140	Yes, Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u141	I, no, I'm not done. I'm sorry I had so little reason for one minute. It's about that we can't consider right now without his presence the question of the battalion's shipment, because as President of Ukraine, it has to be a law on the ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and Kuwait. And this legal moment, we can't get past it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u142	Thank you, Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u143	So he has to sign this law here, or we don't have the right then to consider the issue and vote on the battalion's shipment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u144	Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft decision of the People's Deputies of Boki and the People's Deputies Group under number 3179-1 -- draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the deployment of the Peacebuilding Battalion In the area of fighting with Iraq. Please make up your mind. [[12:39:38]] For 122 The factions, please. Taras Chernobyl, please. The bill of the national MP, Taras Czarnovil. Is there a Taras Cranville? Turn on the microphone of the Crnovil People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, I have had to make my draft decision, apart from the technical points, to record because of the inadequacy of our external doctrine, which has led us to make some serious decisions that will determine the non-technical direction of the battalion, which I fully agree with, that is inappropriate and unwise in many matters, namely, to determine our doctrine of how to view this war is now too late, it has begun. But I want to stress and explain my vote, my position on this. I believe and believe that by this vote we define not some particular reference to the battalion, not some particular defense of President Kuchmi, which I would like to see behind bars, but we're really asking questions, are we in the West or the East? There is a geopolitical distribution, and today we find ourselves among it. And we make that choice. And that's why I have to go to some contradiction with my opposition colleagues -- I'm going to vote in favour because I see that we're in a geopolitical breakup. And we have to make that choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u146	So you're filming your bill, right? I got it. Now the bill of the People's Deputy Karmazin. Turn on Yuri Carmazin's microphone. This is number 3179-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u147	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. First of all, you didn't hand out my bill according to the Rules, which means you have to sound it. Now, for the time being, I'm never gonna sound. You gave me a little rule. We either have to agree with what the government has given us today, and you have seen this toothless bill that relies on Ukraine for economic, legal and political consequences. Morals too will be condemned by the Lord God. I suggest you write it down. It is clear that the battalion is to be commanded by the commander-in-chief, Leonid Kuchma himself, that his deputy should be the real president until Victor Medvedchuk, well, and the commanders of the mouths are the deputy heads of administration. But the United Nations and the States that have been given a mandate. To carry out military activities in Iraq and so far there are no such States that have received security assurances for Ukrainian military personnel. These warnings must be recorded. We will continue to record that, at the end of the war, Ukrainian military personnel in the number of my law, and members of their families, by consent, can perform solely tasks related to chemical protection and assistance to peaceful settlement only in the rear, outside frontal and frontal areas, under proper protection from military or terrorist acts. We have to ensure the security of this battalion, regardless of who we sent there, these are our Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law of the People's Deputies of Carmazin under number 3179-2 concerning the inclusion in the agenda. This is a bill approving a decision to direct a battalion of radiation, chemical and biological protection to the Ukrainian Armed Forces in the event of a country or one of the states of the Gulf and Middle East to assist in the protection of the civilian population of the region against the possible use of mass harm. Please determine by vote. [[12:43:51]] For 115 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! The factions. People's deputies are Mikola Tomenko, Igor Ostash, Sergey Sobolev and Boris Andresyuk. Suggested to vote in secret mode with cards. The drafters insist on voting on this matter. I'm asking a group of national deputies to discuss it. Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u149	Sobolev, Our Ukraine, Reform and Order Party. Dear friends, we consulted the drafters. And by listening to all the arguments of our colleagues that no secret vote will hide the possibility of pressure on those who have already been identified. We're filming this bill. Instead, we propose to postpone voting on the battalion bill for the next time. And we would ask that this be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to make this offer, form it, and then we'll bet. Now the next two bills. This is under 0088, introduced by the President of Ukraine, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement. the exchange of letters between Ukraine and the State of Kuwait providing assistance to the nineteenth individual battalion of radiation, chemical and biological protection of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in the protection of the civilian population of the State of Kuwait against the use of weapons of mass destruction and the elimination of possible consequences of the use of weapons of mass injury. Dear colleagues, there are motives. Five minutes, sign up for motive. Because it'll be everybody's motive. Please sign in. Put a list of the names of the national deputies on the board. Mikhailo Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. With a motive, please. In just a minute, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u151	Please pass the word to the national deputy of Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u152	Anatoly Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u153	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I address you. First, our faction has been identified, it will not support this project. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address you. If "Our Ukraine" proposes to postpone voting on this issue to the next quarter, you have no right to reject this proposal, because it is a procedure for voting. If it is voted on, the need to vote today is thus eliminated. And I would like you to follow the Rules, not your own desires. So please make a proposal to "Our Ukraine," because, in fact, there is no radiation pollution in any area today. If we do, we will decide where to send — Iraq, Israel, or Kuwait. Then we will make specific decisions. Please ask that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u154	I'm asking you not to blame me for what I didn't do, dear colleagues. So let's read the Rules, Anatoly Sergiyovich, and then talk. Please, Nasalik is a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u155	Please pass the word to the Turk Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u156	Alexander Turchinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, points out that the question of free Iraq and Saddam Hussein's regime is an exclusively problem for the Iraqi people. Just like the Kuchma regime and the free Ukraine, it's an exclusive question of our people. And we firmly deny voting for these rulings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u158	Igor Greene, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u159	I'd like you to return to the text of the agreement. The battalion can only participate in the protection of the civilian population if weapons of mass destruction are used. In this regard, I propose to postpone voting on the matter until the use of weapons of mass impression.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u160	National MP Tsushko, please, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u161	Please give the floor to the leader of the Socialists, Mr. Aleksandr Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u162	Alexander Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u163	Honourable fellow MPs, if it happens that the Ukrainian Treaty Ratification Act will gather 226 votes, I would ask that Vladimir Mikhajlovich do not rely on or refer to the absence of other proposals under the Rules. Because no one, in fact, could physically make any suggestions. Therefore, if you vote on this law in the first reading, vote immediately on the second reading: The law goes into effect immediately after the end of the Middle East armed conflict. Then it will be clear that we are carrying out a humanitarian mission after the cessation of military action.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u164	National MP Masenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u165	Please give the floor to Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u166	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u167	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I'd like to draw attention to what they're saying today: the main goal is to help the victims of the fighting. But Iraq will be bombed, Iraqi civilians killed. There we help those who die today in Iraq or on the side of those who have fought in the war and who have been bombarded by the people by destroying them. That's the first one. According to Iraq, there will be Iran and other countries. But please pay attention to your esteemed colleagues when you vote. By making a decision on the side of the aggressor, the United States, you will vote for Ukraine to become a state of war with Iraq. And from that point of view, the responsibility for the fact that you voted that Ukraine declared war on Iraq.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u168	Stephen Cloud, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u169	Cloud, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Fatherland Party. Dear National Deputies! I think that a lot of people today have been disoriented and this is due to the fact that there has not been a full discussion and actually discriminated against the rights of the people's deputies who, if they want to, should be involved in discussing such an important issue. Without the possibility of stopping in more detail, I want to say that today Ukraine is being pushed to participate in a change in the world order that was established after World War II, when serious conflict issues were resolved by the international community of the United Nations. Today, this order is brutally tried by some to destroy it. And the second. Moral question. Here some, especially Leonid Krawchuk, tried to cover up his position with wicked moral principles for the relief of the victims. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u170	Time's up. Unplug the microphone. Dear National Deputies! I am voting on the draft Law No. 0088 "On the Ratification of the Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters between Ukraine and the State of Kuwait on the granting of assistance to 19 individual battalions of radiation, chemical and biological protection of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in the protection of the civilian population of the State of Kuwait against the possible use of weapons of mass injury and the elimination of possible consequences of the use of weapons of mass injury in the territory of the State of Kuwait." Please vote. [[12:52:23]] For 258. Copy that. The factions, please. I read, I read. "Our Ukraine" is 47, Communists are 0. "Ukraine" - 41, The parties of industrialists, entrepreneurs and the "Trouble Ukraine" are 36, SDPU(o) - 36, Deminicatives - 18, The Socialist Party is 0. Eurobibib is 15. Come on, please. People's Landing - 18, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 0. The agrarian party is 12, NDP - 13, People's Choice - 14, Postfaction is 8. Dear colleagues! I am voting on draft law 3258 on the approval of the President of Ukraine's decision to send 19 separate battalions of radiation, chemical and biological protection of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to the State of Kuwait to assist in protecting the civilian population of that State against the possible use of weapons of mass injury and the elimination of possible consequences, the use of weapons of mass injury in the territory of the State. Please vote. [[12:53:42]] For 253 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 44, communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 41, "Industry and Entrepreneurs' Party" - 36, "The Social Democratic Party of Ukraine" - 36, "Democratic Initiatives" - 17, "The Socialist Party" - 0, "The European Choice" - 14, "The People's Party" - 18, "The Yulia Party of Timoshenko - 0, "The Agrarian Party - 12, NDP - 13, "The People's Choice" - 13, "The People's Choice" - 9. [[united]] Now. Please. What are you accusing me of? What's the point?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u171	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! There are two moments. First. I said in my co-report that scientific experts have very reasonable observations about the Law on the Ratification of the Treaty, the Agreement. That's the first one. And I want to report them because they're important. The other one. The only way to send a battalion is if there is an international treaty that has entered into force. It has not yet been signed by the President and therefore cannot be considered as having entered into force. Now for the first part, here's what scientific experts say. First. According to part three of the third article of the Ukrainian Act, "On the order of deployment of troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other states", the international treaty should contain information on the subordination of the unit. There is no such link in the contract, it has to be completed. The other one. In the second paragraph of article 3, it should be clarified that the battalion’s areas of work can only be located in Kuwait. This is directly in line with the requirements of the law. The treaty, which states that the battalion is performing its functions at locations and in areas that are agreed upon by the Kuwaiti side. We don't know what are the agreements agreed upon by the Kuwaiti side. Third. The content of article 6 shows that the financing of the battalion’s activities relies solely on the Ukrainian side. The project information indicates that these questions will be covered by a third party. That doesn't fit the agreement because the president made it. And the last. According to article 15, compensation payments are based solely on the Ukrainian side. This is not in line with current legislation. Therefore, the Chief Executive concludes that a treaty can be ratified by the Supreme Council with warnings. Since the Supreme Council has decided to ratify, it should be regarded as a law adopted in the first reading. [[award]] And to the second reading, introduce these requirements, which are entirely justified by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u172	Yes, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how we do things: the first document we send to the President for signature, the second document does not sign as a head. After the first document is signed and published, we send the second document. What adjustments? That's it. Dear colleagues, if there are any replicas, please sign up for five minutes on the lines or with the motives you want or with the procedure. At least it's all right now. Light up on the board. Alexander Turchinov, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you: Who would benefit from such a law? Ukrainian parents who may lose their children? No, it's not. To our state that has no political or economic interests in this conflict? No, it's not. A world community that has not voted in the United Nations for this conflict to begin? No, that's what Kravczuk said, just the one person he wants to protect, Kuchmi! Who wants to hide his crimes! He trembles at what will be known as the killing of U.S. soldiers by Ukrainian weapons! And that's why he wants to hide.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u174	Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u175	Behind our battalion, our boys, and we voted for it, including our Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u176	National Deputy Babourin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u177	Baburin, Zaporozhye, Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, you have not listened at all to Georgia Korneevich's last words, so do not violate the procedure for reviewing the law. The law was adopted on first reading as a basis. And we must make additions, including those proposed by San Sánich Moroz, Vladimir Mihajlovich. I would like to say to the so-called opposition from Our Ukraine. Now you can see who's protecting President Kuchma. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u178	Sergey Sobolev, faction of our Ukraine. I'm asking the people's deputies not to break up yet. They haven't announced the break yet. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u179	Sobolev, Our Ukraine, Reform and Order Party. Dear friends, I don't know where you're going. The bill isn't accepted. You all know that. I remind you of article 6.4. 3 of the Rules, I ask you to put my motion to a vote: the Supreme Council, after considering the bill on whether or not it can be referred for further consideration with the definition of the deadline for further processing by the same commission or commission in another composition, or by other commissions of the Supreme Council. I insist that a motion be put to the vote on postponement of voting as a whole for the following week after the President's statement in Parliament has been made, how all the committees will be dealt with, and after that to vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u180	I want to tell the People's Deputy that the decisions have been made. It's nice, I don't like it, but they're accepted. Please, Valentina Petrovna Seminouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u181	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Please give the word to Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u182	Alexander Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I have made a motion for a vote in favour of paragraph one or two. The Law of the First, on Ratification, which states, "The Act enters into force immediately after the end of the armed conflict in Iraq or the Middle East." That's equivalent. But this proposal could not be put to the vote. And then, in general, we have to vote on the law with this proposal. I reasoned, I couldn't make this proposal in an orderly fashion, because the whole project was not considered in the proper order, because it was introduced just a few minutes before this issue was discussed here in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u184	Valery Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u185	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think the question has been very difficult, it has been completed and voted, and we should not go back to it. And if we open a political debate, let's give it to the two sides, because one side starts blaming the other for some treasonous thing and so on. I say frankly to the Communists, the Socialists and Julia Volodymyrni: I voted twice in favour, and I'm willing to sit with my beloved to prove that I voted in favour of Ukraine, and you vote in favour of Russia. Always. So our interests do not match or match. Well, that's what happened here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u186	Thank you. Mikhailo Pavlovsky, militia of the block of Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u187	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of the School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u188	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u189	First of all, I want to say that I am the national MP who represents those people who have just been sent to Kuwait. I mean, it's Sambi, my constituency. And these guys, they're from those lands, the Sambarians, and I know they voted for me, I know their position. And I want to say that even in that environment, there's no one-of-a-kind support that should be. They will obey the command, but they will obey the command, not act according to their own will. I demand that we put in a normal discussion, discuss all the amendments to the bill, and put, if we have already voted, only if nuclear or chemical weapons are used. I mean, the task is to have a battalion sent there, not to support today's president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u190	National MP Mironenko, Communist faction. It says what I can do.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u191	The representative of “Our Ukraine” said that he and other members of “Our Ukraine” had just voted in favour of Ukraine. But why, in supporting the United States of America in aggression, did these deputies not take into account the bitter, terrible experience of the Second World War? 1938, aggression against Austria, 1938-1939 against Czechoslovakia. Peace was silent. And now these deputies are repeating the terrible experience of the previous. What is this, a mistake? Or serving the United States of America? What if the ministry is for money or by mistake? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u192	Time, national MPs, exhausted from motive. Timoshenko's replica, please. Now, colleagues, please calm down. The decision has already been made. On the basis of your motives, what do you want?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u193	Dear friends, I'd like to address those radio audiences who are watching the session. Just a large number of votes, 253, were voted in the Supreme Council to join Ukraine in military action on the side of the United States. To understand that there's no talk about any peacemaking groups, battalions, it's all an absolute deception. Each addiction masks its incompetence with comfortable words.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u194	Thank you. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u195	We need to know all of you now that our 532-man boys will be heading for Kuwait, which is now fighting Iraq to make our boys participate in military action. This means that Ukraine has virtually put its territory at risk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u196	Turn off the microphone. Peter Simonenko, please. For what reason do I give you the word? About what? Please don't go in the hall. Write down how all MPs do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u197	Simonenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u198	I'm telling you again, sign up. Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Simonenko, the Communist faction. I'm asking you, from the fact that today, indeed, war has begun, it can turn into a world war and pose a threat to peace in general, we, national deputies Simonenko, Grachev, Alexeyev, Mironenko, Oilynik, have prepared the text of the statement of the Supreme Council against the aggression of the United States of America, Great Britain in Iraq. And please consider this draft statement and vote, support this draft statement. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask you to put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda, the brief discussion and the vote. And the last. What the factions have voted on is I'm surprised that our Ukraine has supported the President's proposal for Ukraine's dependence on the United States.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u199	Turn off the microphone. Please, Alexander Frost, and that's it. Well, please sign up for what you want from me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u200	Alexander Frost, faction of socialists. I've asked for the floor for a statement from Valery Assadchev, a representative of our Ukraine, and a representative of the Movement. I would like to point out that, with regard to Valery Assadchev and the party he represents, neither I nor my colleagues have ever made any incorrect statements. As to whether the socialists are concerned about the fate of Ukraine or not, we rely on the support of more than 3 million of our fellow citizens. I was everywhere I could, and when I was asked to propose a specific Valery Assadchev, I kept saying that it was a smart, balanced, experienced politician. I'm sorry I said that before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote the proposal and the demand of the national MPs, a group of national deputies to include in the agenda a statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine against the aggression of the United States and Britain in Iraq. I'm putting the vote on the agenda. [[13:08:29]] For-151 The factions, please. One minute, Chernewsky from procedure one minute and Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u202	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I want to tell you one very important thing. We're playing political games now, and the whole world is looking at us, yes. You are fighting both communists and many others with a dictatorship that seems to be exercised by executive power, and some things seem to resemble that. In Iraq, the negativity killed the leader, seized power. The whole world is looking at us now. And now you're talking about 20 people who are supposed to fight, taught them to kill and fight. Do you want to do that? You better worry about the people who are starving. It's a purely political question. If today the Supreme Council actively supports the United States of America in the fight against the villain who took power in Iraq, you will do the most noble thing possible. That's not enough. The battalion needs to catch this Hussain and give him a hard time about making fun of his people.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u203	Turn off the microphone. Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u204	The Communist faction, Alexandrovsky. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a question for you. Why are you here today in this room in violation of basic procedural standards? We voted on the law without taking it as a basis without making the necessary amendments, without voting on the amendments. Today, the issue of sending parts of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to the territory of the warring country has been resolved. In fact, we voted here today on Ukraine's participation in the armed conflict. That is, Ukraine's actual accession to the aggressor as a belligerent. And we make these decisions, you impose a decision on the Chamber by gross violation of procedures. Answer me, please, why you've committed a breach of procedural standards today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-20-m0.u205	Dear National Deputies! All right, let's get this over with. Dear National Deputies! I would like to ask you in this way that a decision that someone does not like is not to be blamed on the head of the Supreme Council. Remember how we always voted on the ratification that we made. And I'd like you, my dear fellows, to keep this topic quiet. A draft decree on the early termination of powers is being announced for consideration. Dear National Deputies! Then it's an offer. Let's take a break until 4:00. No objections? So that we can discuss the situation in groups and factions. Break until 4:00. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
