ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:03:52]] Registered -433 There are 433 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Andrew Skull, who was 40 years old. Let us welcome him and wish him political longevity and strong health. From Yuri Lucenko's procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u2	Yuri Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Your Honor, we are deeply concerned about the full manipulation of Parliament, the disregard for all the rules of the Rules. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there are no laws in general and on a base at the same time. It's a gross violation. If so, then gather the three of you with your castles, in your office, and vote for all the laws, and do not murder 447 other people. So it cannot be that yesterday Gavrish claims that Liberia will re-vote on Thursday. It's a regular violation of the Rules. If Parliament does not vote as anyone would in the streets of Bankova, then Parliament is forced to vote. To what extent will this work? To what extent will the regulatory committee close its eyes? Why Adam Ivanovich closes his eyes and lifts his microphone to extract the speaker during illegal activities. We insist that today, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you vote in favour of your 205, vote in accordance with the rules. Taken as a basis yesterday, this is recorded in the transcript, continue voting as a whole, but do not violate the Rules and do not announce to the whole country that the law has been passed. We can't do that, we're a parliament after all. Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u3	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Yesterday, the parliamentary majority voted in favour of lowering the minimum wage from 237 to 205 dollars. I have a document from the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll read it: "In 17.44, the roll-call vote on the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2003 on minimum wage" based on 235." In this regard, the faction insists that this law be passed in general. Secondly, the faction "Our Ukraine" requires that an investigation be carried out, why another piece of information appeared on the Supreme Council site half an hour later that the law was voted on as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u4	Please, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u5	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! Yesterday, the presidential majority robbed all the people who had the smallest income, no more than 20 bucks. I understand that most of the president is preparing for the election and raising money for the election. They don't want to raise wages and pensions. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we don't need to meet in the Supreme Council if there is a breach of procedure. Yesterday was a disgraceful phenomenon: you cannot include yourself in the message of the day of the session, vote on the basis and overall at the same time. To have the Regulatory Committee review this as it always was, and let it conclude that after yesterday's vote, otherwise we won't let it work, otherwise we don't have to walk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u6	Kirilenko, please. Viacheslav Kirilenko. Okay, I see, Konovaluk. And we'll finish. Five minutes for a break, that's enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u7	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of Our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, what Deputy Pinzenik has just reported, is indeed true. Thus, the results of Parliament's vote are falsified by a key social standard. I have a legitimate question, and I think it's a lot of people, whether this falsification is initiated by you as Head of the Supreme Council, or whether it's done outside of you, it needs a clear answer. That's the first point. And number two: practically all the media reported that the Supreme Council of Ukraine had raised wages from 185 to 205. Instead, the Supreme Council of Ukraine reduced yesterday's salary from 237 to 205, not the Supreme Council, but the presidential majority. I also demand a clear comment and your position on this issue, because you have also organised this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u8	Yes, Konovaluk, please, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! First, we want to support the Chief of the Supreme Council and testify that there were no violations yesterday, no breaches of the Rules. There is a violation only in part of the fact that the Supreme Council is always prevented from working. I worked for the Supreme Council for six years, and I never broke down a meeting, turned off a microphone, or anything like that. That is why there were no violations during the vote yesterday. It's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's kind of, it's kind of, Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I mean, we've had a long meeting for about three hours, I've tried, honourable colleagues, to find compromise, to find understanding, to offer different options. But unfortunately, we're not interested in the process in general, not in the outcome. That's the first one. Second, regarding the violation of the Rules. There was no violation on my part Allow me to work in normal mode: do not break microphones. But I want to say that I put it to a vote because I've seen that you don't want to discuss this further. We discussed his hour for 44 minutes. And I said, on the basis and in general, that it was fixed itself. Victor Mikhailovich, you can keep this. I don't know what was on the sites. And I answer Viacheslav Kirilenka. Unfortunately, or for too much happiness, apparently to be too happy, I do not manage the media. You know who's in charge. I want to say it again. Calm down! I'm saying that. Calm down! Dear colleagues, calm down! I'm not breaking the rules. Let's go, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to say again: Please read the regulation. Calm down! Calm down! In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's Rules are 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, applications and messages. I'm asking the factions and groups to file a statement. In the meantime, I will announce the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Vladimir Skomorowski to the President of Ukraine regarding measures related to the satisfaction of the public needs for printed products. I'm voting on support for the request. [[10:12:38]] For-94 Request not supported. Jury Solomatina to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the unobjective disclosure in Ukraine of UN hunger positions in 1933 in Ukraine. John Durres to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for ignoring the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's Law on State Support for the Bookstore in the Country and preventing its entry into force. Groups of National Deputies: Dobkin, Gladys, Reznik, only 11 National Deputies, to the Head of the Supreme Council for the improper use of office as deputy director of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Stepan Cloud to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for delaying the trial of the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Alexander Stoyan. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the prevention of unmotivated refusal to provide polygraph services to the print media. Istwan Haïdosh to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of the assignment of one-time assistance at the birth of a child born abroad. Jury Karmazin to Stéphane Cloud and Stephen Cloud to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney-General for the lifting of the illegal order of the Minister of Interior of Ukraine from 22 October 2003 to allow the police to remove the driver's licence as a violation of article 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Violations of Road Traffic Regulations. Dmitry Rudkovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financial situation that took place in the Bilocerkow Training and Production Company of the Ukrainian Association of Blind Kyiv Region. Boris Andresyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the forecasting of funds in the state budget for the construction of the Nikopol Group Water. Vasil Nadraga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the regulation of the recalculation of pensions for persons who receive a pension under the Ukrainian State Service Act. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the verification of the abuse of office, the theft of state funds in particular largely by the former head of the Kyrovograd District Administration, and now the Deputy Minister of Industrial Policy of the Powerful, individual officials of the Society with limited responsibility of the Agro-industry Company, using the funds allocated for restructuring and creating additional jobs in connection with the closure of the Novomirrodska Coal Mine. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for ensuring respect for the legitimate rights and interests of the special crew of the ship "Bagermeister Grusin" of the Ukrainian Maritime Navigation Chorazovmorslach. Valentina Seminouk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the legality of issuing an order from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine and on 26 June 1997 on the transfer of property of the decommissioned inter-household enterprise "Nagornian" to the balance sheet of the Yagalina horse factory of the Ternopil region. Vladimir Leschchenka to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitr Tobacco, for the purpose of increasing the cost of carrying out mandatory annual medical examinations of cultural workers. Eugene Jovtak to the Attorney General of Ukraine for signs of corruption in the actions of the Irpine Prosecutor's Office and the leadership of the Open Shareholder Society of the Irpine Combat "Progress" of the Kyiv region. Stepan Cloud to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the invocation of the responsibility of officials of the Open Shareholder Association Kyivsilmash for exceeding their official authority and abuse of office. Gregory Omelchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the grounds that the Office of the Attorney General has been removed from the objective examination of factual data, which points to the deliberate murder of the responsible secretary of the Monetary and Credit Board of the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine, Mikoli Medoliza, as a witness to crimes committed by individual statesmen of Ukraine. Michael Melniczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of the office of the head of the Kyiv District Consumer Association, disregarding the current legislation of Ukraine, for the use of law enforcement officials in the Kyiv region as property of the consumer co-operators of the High Town Region. Peter Simonnck to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the pay laws of the National Atomic Energy Company Energoate. Eugene Jovtak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Security Service for a crime committed by the Public Tax Administration’s management through payment in August 2003 of 2 billion dollars of tax compensation for the added value to independent recipients who are not eligible to receive it. Mikoli Chechel to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Vinnick district government regarding the state of affairs in the village of Oscitkowka of the Oratov district of Winnitsk. Vladimir Petrenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the insufficient legal status of certain local authorities in the district of Suma. Mr. Crutz to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the groundless closure of the criminal case by the Public Prosecutor of the Ivano-Frankow region. Vladimir Jashchenka to the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the failure of the government commission to implement the decision on the free provision of fuel to the father of the dead miner. Gregory Omelchenka to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the violation by the leadership of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence of the Ukrainian Air Transport Company of the labour rights of crew members of the air force, who have ensured the implementation of the UN mission in the Congo, the use of urgent response measures to restore their rights. Victor King to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on providing information on the criminality situation in the area of imports into Ukraine, production and sale of counterfeit money. Mikoli Krutz to the Ukrainian Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster for the allocation of funds for the protection of the Hriplin Gardens of the Ivano-Frankiv region. Groups of national deputies Tarasyuk, Zvaric, Koval - only 19 national deputies - to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the investigation of the death of the Ukrainian National Deputy, the head of the People’s Movement of Ukraine, Viacheslav Crnovola. Qatusheva to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the unsatisfying state of the material and technical provision of the Crimea for the treatment of cardiovascular and vascular diseases. Valentina Seminouk to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Head of the State Commission of Securities and the Funding Market for the conduct of an expert study of documents of the Open Shareholder Society of the Romanian Polygraphing Machines Plant and the use of appropriate response measures. People's Deputies - Ustenko, Red, Shirko - only six national deputies, to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine for the capital repair of the Zdubice Shumsk road in the Plain and Ternopil areas. Bogdan Kostinuk to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the disengagement of the Kalusz District Department of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine of the Ivano-Frankov region into the city and district. Refata Chubarov to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service regarding the provision of statistics on the availability of ethnic crime groups in the area of illicit drug trafficking in the Republic. Vladimir Onishuk to the head of the Coordinating Committee on Combating Corruption and Organized Crime with the President of Ukraine for failure by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to take appropriate action on illegal logging in the village of Cebrikovo Velikomyhail district of Odessa. Paul Zebrovsky to the Ukrainian Defence Minister in connection with his dissatisfaction with the response to the request for the provision of heating for a building along the street. Vladarski in the city of Berdičev in the district of Žitomir Gregory of Omelchenka and Mikola Karnauha to the head of the Coordinating Committee on Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime under the President of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the violation of the criminal case against individual workers of the Administration of State Automobile Inspection of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Lvivsky and Cherniewsky areas of the DAI UMC Ukraine in the Lviv region and now the Head of UMC Ukraine on the Lviv Railway for the illegal registration of an undisclosed car. Leonida Vernigori to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine regarding the unqualified appeal of the Zacarpathian District Fund for general insurance against accidents by the Zacarpathian authorities. Jury Karmazin to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges, the head of the High Council of Justices of Ukraine, the head of the Council of Judges on the examination of the violation of official discipline by the judge of the Mukatsov local court of the Zakarpat district of Halaburda and the resolution of the issue of his dismissal from the duties of the judge for gross violation of the oath of the judge. Mary Markusz to the prosecutor of the Zacarpat district, the head of the Uzhgorod City Council for failure to execute the Uzhgorod District Court ruling of June 27, 2002, and the judges of the civilian court of appeal of the Zakarpatsk district for the prosecution of a former marriage of Petrisinac. Viktor Rozwadowski, head of the Zitomir District State Administration, for the coming and purpose of the funds allocated by the local budget of the 69 constituencies of the district of Žitomir. Oleg Tajnibok to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the re-examination of offences raised in parliamentary inquiries from 23. 10.02 by number 28-K/5, from 10.02. 03 by number 43-P/5-K, from 07.03.03 number 48-P/5-K, from 2.04. 03 number 55-P/5-K, since 21.05. 03 by number 64-P/5-K. Zarai Katusheva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the heating of the apartment building in Simferopol of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Vladimir Puzakov to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Papiev on the violation of the Ukrainian Civil Service Act on the definition of the entitlements for the appointment of a civil servant to the Assistant Counsellor of the Fedorowski People's Deputies, who lives in the city of Kyrovgrad, on the street of Majakovsky 45/11. Vladimir Puzakov to Minister of Agriculture and Food on the crisis situation in addressing the issue of the transfer of land of the reserve fund and the reserve of the Subotavian Rural times of the Crimea Region of Kirovograd for the implementation of the Subotas gardening programme. All the parliamentary requests that have come have been made. Let's move on to the leaders' speeches. representatives and authorized by MPs and factions. Igor Yukhnowsky has the word. Please, Igor Raphaelovich. Prepare Bokom from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Oh, that's a new procedure. Igor Raphaelovich, will you speak? That's how we come out of factions, Igor Raphaelovich. Yes, the next is John Sidorovich Boki of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. To prepare Yuri Pavlovenko from the faction "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u11	John Boki, the Socialist faction. Yesterday, the Kuchmew majority voted for a minimum wage of 205 dollars, thus revoking the minimum wage bill of 237, which she had voted for earlier. For what, it has already been said: to break the budget for Kuchma-3's next presidential election. But in this way, the majority resembled a lady who walked on high heels. If you vote against the Rules tomorrow in favour of sending peacekeepers to Liberia, you will only confirm the lady’s reputation. And because of you, most men are like men. It's a disgrace. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., there will be a protest at the Supreme Council against the 2004 budget break-up and the minimum wage manipulation. We socialists, like all opposition forces, are urging all of them to join this protest. We also know that the ambassadors of the prokuchmian majority are coming from Donbas. We call you to tolerance and order in Kiev. And now I'm going to present a statement by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine in connection with the events in Georgia. On Sunday, a historic event took place in the brothers ’ home for the Republic of Georgia. In opposition to the opposition, the authoritarian government, which, like the Ukrainian regime, forged the results of the parliamentary elections, won the bloodless democratic revolution. Ukrainian Socialists sincerely welcome the Georgian people and wish them success in the difficult cause of democratization, in ensuring the unity of their state. The faction of socialists points to the immeasurable importance of the democratic revolution in Georgia for Ukraine. Georgian events set an inspiring example for the Ukrainian opposition and for the entire Ukrainian people. At the same time, Georgian events are lessons for power in Ukraine. The content of the lesson is simple: An illegal regime must expect adequate and irreversible social action. The people and the people alone are the source of authority, for him to choose those to whom he trusts in honest, just choices. The Tbilisi Revolution has shown that despite the official propaganda, the street is not synonymous with chaos and disorder. It is an active factor that unites people of different beliefs in the pursuit of freedom, truth and justice, and social transformations in the interests of the people’s masses. The President of Ukraine Kuchma, in fact, defended authoritarianism in Georgia, put an undeserving stamp on our country. We cannot use double standards. The Constitutions must be followed by opposition, and primarily by the authorities, not allowing fraud in elections. Criticisms and attempts at official propaganda to present Georgian events as undermining the statehood and constitutional order are not enduring. They are clearly designed for the situation in Ukraine and mislead our people. The opposition forces in Ukraine have consistently advocated a legal solution to the political conflicts caused by the systemic crisis. Yet the Kuchma regime is cynically ignoring the democratic and legal settlement. His constant instruments of dialogue with opposition are political terror, intrigue, forging elections, the informational blockade of opposition. Georgia has shown that the final word is for the people. And in this connection, we insist on the unconditional implementation of the Minimum Wages Act, to increase pensions, to stop trying to use the budget for dirty electoral schemes. We call on society to consolidate, to unite in the struggle for their rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u12	Yuri Pavlenko of the faction "Our Ukraine." Please, Your Honor, follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u13	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! I have the honour to present our Ukrainian faction's statement on the 2004 State Budget. "Our Ukraine" is strongly protesting the second reading of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2004 proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. The bill introduced by the government is an asset of power, which by means of shadow schemes is intended to provide funding for its candidate in the presidential elections. This document has nothing to do with government declarations on social orientation, improving the welfare of citizens, and economic initiatives. The 2004 draft budget is another example of political fraud when, behind the curtain of claims of social justice, the authorities go into the pockets of their voters. The government is talking about economic growth, but it does not want to share its results with its citizens. Feeling that its time is coming to an end, the oligarchic clans are in a hurry to cut themselves off as the largest share of society’s wealth, leaving millions of Ukrainian citizens with no chance of meeting the minimum necessities of life. Against the background of inflation, gross price increases for bread, basic food, transportation, municipal services, the decision has been made to reduce Ukraine’s minimum wage from 237 to 205 dollars per month. Expressing the unheard-of rate of economic growth on paper, not only has the government not only managed to find funds to meet the minimum social needs of people, but it has also resorted to a proven way of concealing its own unprofessional nature of external borrowing. This will inevitably lead to an increase in government debt, a payment that our children will have to pay. Today, we find that there are resources in the state that are needed not only for the social protection of ordinary people but also for the establishment of preconditions for the steady growth of the country’s economy, cultural and spiritual prosperity. The government’s refusal to actually increase its income, and so the spending portion of the budget can only indicate one thing — the active authorities are trying to hide from their people the enormous cost of further exploitation that is not difficult to guess. Not too soon before the presidential election. We are against the government's proposed anti-national draft of the 2004 State Budget. The 2004 budget should be based on a minimum wage of 237 dollars, while the inter-employment ratios of 1 January 2004 were in effect. The head of the "Our Ukraine" faction, Victor Yushchenko. We also protest the gross violation of the Rules at the time of adoption by a majority of the bill, according to which the presidential majority reduced the minimum wage from 237 to 205 dollars and demanded a proper investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u14	The Communist faction Sergey Gmira has his word. Prepare Oluiko Vitalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u15	Dear colleagues! Yesterday, in voting on the minimum wage, the parliamentary majority, following the Government's criminal assistance, once handed over the interests of the electorate. That's exactly what you have to say. When the minimum wage was raised, the Constitution was violated twice. The first time that communist proposals for minimum wage were not taken into account at the minimum wage level as required by the Constitution, and the second time that already poor minimum wage in 237 bracelets was reduced to 205. Thus, the minimum wage was first subjected to circumcision and then castration. Dear colleagues! In this regard, I have several proposals for an organizational plan. First. Rename the Parliamentary Committee on Social Policy and Labour to the Court Committee on the Reduction of Minimum Wages. The Chairman of this committee will appoint Vasily Haru for life. Second sentence. The permanent parliamentary majority should be renamed the permanent parliamentary majority against the people. Third sentence. To entrust the Government of Yanukovic with a bonus for each MP who voted in favour of lowering the minimum wage. To call this award “To be faithful to the leadership and to the betrayal of the electorate”. And set it to thirty pruned minimum wages. I'll give you a ten-minute coupon with a picture of Gehtman Mazepa. And the fourth. I think we should ask the President to have a calm post-op period and not sign a minimum wage reduction document. I have to guarantee something at some point. And the last. There may now be a third, the return of another, I do not know what stage of betrayal, ahead of the Housing Code. I have such suspicions that a large part of the majority will vote to expel people from their apartments for not paying their rent. History won't forget anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u16	Vitaly Oluiko of the faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine. Prepare Alexander the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u17	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Fraction The People's Democratic Party is very concerned about the situation that has involved providing our citizens with one of the main forms of Ukrainian culture -- the book. During the past decade, Ukraine has been plagued by the vacuum of the Ukrainian book, and this vacuum has been filled with foreign, mostly Russian, editions. Our book proved to be uncompetitive, especially with regard to the art book. Gradually, this situation is changing, and the book market is being filled in with Ukrainian textbooks, teaching aids, since without them there is no indication of the functioning of the education system in Ukraine. But of course, we have no right to stop. No action can be taken to establish the Ukrainian language in Ukraine as much as the Ukrainian book will do. We have already done a lot to support the national bookstore. Most importantly, we have adopted a law by the Supreme Council on State support for the bookstore in Ukraine on March 6, this year, which provides for a number of substantial tax benefits for Ukrainian accountants. Regrettably, this law has not yet taken effect, and its operation has been suspended by the State Budget Act 2003. But the above - mentioned standards ended on January 1, 2004. With the submission of the 2004 State Budget project, it became clear that the Ukrainian book was being sacrificed today. But for what? Prepared for second reading. The production of notebooks, textbooks and textbooks does not in any way save the situation, as literature for children, scientific books, art literature, etc. remains outside the tax regime. The publication of the Ukrainian Book is once again becoming harmful. Tomorrow we will be taking various programs to heal the bookstore, stifling it today. This is contrary to all the laws of logic. At this rate until 2008, and that is when it's proposed to take off the benefits for the bookkeepers, we don't have any tax payers left in this article than there is to be a Ukrainian book. In summary, the NDP faction asks the government and the national deputies to support the initiative of many political forces and accountants to delete paragraph 39 of article 74 of the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2004 on the suspension of the Act on State support for Ukraine’s bookkeeping for the year 2000. Please consider my statement a parliamentary request to the government from our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u18	Alexander Turchinov from the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Prepare Turmanov from "Regions."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u19	The honourable national deputies, who voted in favour of the Minimum Wage Reduction Act yesterday, not only did the presidential majority violate the Constitution of Ukraine, depriving millions of our citizens of virtually livelihoods. Yesterday there was a grave violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations. And for those who have not yet studied the Rules, I would like to point out that the Law on Minimum Wage Reduction was not included in the agenda of the day session. And I'm addressing both the Supreme Council's leadership, and the Regulatory Committee, and I'm asking for an explanation: on what grounds, without being included in the agenda of yesterday's session, was considered this law. Next. I refer to the Rules of Procedure and to the Governing Body of the Supreme Council, and I would like to explain to the deputies, on the basis of which the article was based. I am convinced that our faction of Julia Timoshenko is convinced that such a vote is not foreseen in the Rules. And I ask you to consider my appeal as a parliamentary request to both the Regulatory Committee and the Supreme Council. The faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, believes that the Head of the Supreme Council does not have the right to sign this law. Next. Ladies and gentlemen, we can predict that tomorrow, during the review of the Budget Act, the Presidential majority will try to extend it in such a way as to deprive millions of our citizens of the opportunity to exist in our country. It will be destroyed, through budget adoption, agriculture, small and medium - size business, teachers and doctors will get rid of the small funds that allow them at least to make ends meet. I am addressing all the national MPs who have a responsibility to their constituents, not allowing tomorrow to extend the Cabinet's version of the budget law. I'm talking to all the citizens who can hear me right now. Protect your own economic, social rights, support tomorrow's care of the Supreme Council, which will take place at 10 o'clock, support tomorrow's care of the Cabinet of Ministers, take care of your own administrations where you live. Protect your interests, protect your rights. I'm talking to the strikebreakers that are being recruited today by the management of the mines, other institutions, to create tomorrow in Kiev a provocation that was created three weeks ago in Donetsk. Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition advocates increased funding for mining problems. But those billions that are budgeted will not go to your wages, will not go to your regressions, they will go into the pockets of mine owners, owners of your regions, will be used during the presidential company to conduct a candidate from power. I appeal to all the national MPs to remain within the Constitution. When you break the Constitution, a united position will be adequately applied. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u20	Viktor Ivanovich Turmanov of the "Ukraine Region" faction to prepare Verethennikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u21	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. I would like to inform you that tomorrow the miners from all regions of Ukraine do not come here. That's the decision of our union. Once again, I stress, not just today, not exactly under the 2004 budget, they arrive every year in every weather, cold and furious, and in every weather they arrive here, and you know, they're under the walls of the Supreme Council. They are therefore coming to protect the budget of the industry, where for the first time in years of independence, the budget for the coal industry is 4 billion dollars. I would like to emphasize that for the first time in 12 years of independence for coal development, the amount of 1.4 billion is allocated. For the first time, I stress that funds have been allocated to payables. And the funds are spent on domestic fuel. Yesterday, I briefed the members of the faction of the Regions on the statement made by the trade union of coal workers. Today, I would like to introduce the members of the Supreme Council. Statement of a union of coal workers. Today, coal industries need more support and solutions than ever before. In 12 years of independence, 120 mines have been closed in the industry. Chatter towns and settlements have become flowering regions of depression. Over the past ten years, capital construction in the industry has decreased by 3.5 times. The lending debt of coal enterprises exceeds the receivable by 6 billion grevens. Most of the mines have been bankrupt. Over the past five years, the coal industry has been underfunded by approved budgets of the Supreme Council for 790 million grivens. And only the first coalition Government of Ukraine provided 100 per cent of the industry with funding in 2003. For the first time in years of independence, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has developed and proposed a budget for 2004 for approval by the Supreme Council, which provides for the financing of the industry, taking into account its acute socio-economic problems. Today, for the first time in years, we have come to have a fragile hope of solving our gravest problems. However, not everyone wants a real change. The tactics of decomposing a situation, which has only one objective: to destabilize the situation, to destroy the first fragile growth of economic stabilization, have been deliberately chosen by individual politicians. These political games can only result in one reduction in the real standard of living for people. We clearly see the political objectives of our Ukraine - to come to power in a wave of public dissatisfaction. That's what all the money is for. The budgetary process is used by the Islamization, the blocking of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers. For them, the main objective is not to adopt this budget, but to create the maximum number of obstacles to its path. We can't let that happen. We do not want the employees of our industry to become hostages of other people's political ambitions, nor do we want to do so. On behalf of the 500 thousand coal workers' union, we express our support for the 2004 budget. We therefore appeal to the members of the Supreme Council to make every effort to adopt the 2004 State budget in a timely manner and to put an end to any political provocation around it. If no mining budget is adopted, the miners will take the most stringent measures. We appeal to all members of the people, regardless of their faction and political views, to leave mutual claims, contradictions, ambitions and consolidation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u22	Thank you. Microphone, please. That's enough. Vortennikov Viktor Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues! When the first representative, authorized by the faction, spoke for four minutes, you kept your mouth shut, you just mentioned the rules. Be tolerant. Please, Victor Alexanderovich Verethennikov of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. And I'd like you to follow all the rules. Get ready for Calinchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u23	Deputies! A statement on the situation in the publishing industry of Ukraine. "Today's state of national accounting is one that does not match the realities of modern economic life. For eight years in Ukraine, the production rate of books per capita remains at the same level as that of a single copy. At the same time, in European countries, the standard of production is 14-16 books per year per capita. Today, the book in Ukraine is not separated from the total number of industrial products and continues to bear the full burden of taxes at the same level as the producers of goods. The situation in the bookstore in the Russian Federation has been much better than that of the Ukrainian, since 1995 the bookstore has been virtually exempt from all taxes on the subject of publishing aids for rent, utilities, communications, and others. In recent years, 8 of every 10 books sold in Ukraine have been produced in a neighboring country. Notice, honourable MPs pay the Russian state between $80 million and $100 million each year as a fee for the consumption of books, although only $7 million and $8 million come from the implementation of their own book to the budget. On the basis of the above, a draft law on State support for the bookstore in Ukraine has been developed and introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in particular the law provides for the provision of books and paper to Ukrainian producers for the production of taxes for a period of five years. The draft law found understanding and support for Ukrainian national deputies, and 406 people voted for it. That is why we cannot agree today with the preservation of article 74, paragraph 39, of the draft law on the State Budget for Ukraine, which transposes the deadlines for the implementation of the law on State support for the bookstore in Ukraine from 1 January 2004 to 1 January 2005. Such a situation should be radically changed, since the national book is a major source of spirituality, morality, Ukrainian culture, and the guarantee of the intellectual development of our nation is still declining. We consider it necessary to exclude article 74, paragraph 39, from the draft Ukrainian State Budget 2004 bill and to leave the deadline for the introduction of the bookkeeping law of January 1, 2004, as voted by the 406 people's deputies. Participants in the joint meeting of the Ukrainian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Federation of Employers of Ukraine on the draft law on the State Budget of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u24	Basil Calinchuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u25	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The fact was that the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party was unable to express its position on the development of physical culture and sports during the Government’s Day in October. It seems to us, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, that factions should take advantage of the priority right to speak in any matter. And that, in our view, is also the case in the Supreme Council Rules. And now regarding the statement made by the faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine regarding the development of physics and sports. The Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport states that the State provides priority for the development of physical culture and sports in rural areas, creates the necessary conditions for physical culture and sports for rural workers and their families. What's really going on? And in fact, the sports buildings that were once built are not being repaired, they're falling apart, only one and a half percent of the rural schoolchildren are covered by schooling in children's sports schools, which are working in the village for less than two hundred. Rural children have nothing and nothing to go to the circuit competition for. Today, one soccer ball belongs to 2-3 rural public schools. The logical question is: Where is the priority development of rural sports, as required by the law? During the 10 years since the date of this law’s entry into the country, no sports object has been built at the expense of the country’s budget. What Olympics can be discussed without taking into account the interests of the village, the rural children, and the rural youth? And by the way, I'd say disrespect for the village and the peasants, the village, and now he's cooking the Olympics. For example, in 2000, the Ukrainian Olympics were known to have won only three gold medals -- Jan Kloczkova two and our cousin Mikola Milchev, the Stend's Sagittarius, from Odeščina. And at the 2002 Winter Olympics, the peasants did not let Ukraine down, but they, the Colossians, performed better than anyone else, taking first place in the unofficial Olympic advance among Ukraine’s voluntary sports associations. To develop physical culture and sports, the country has so far allocated 5 million dollars a year from the State Budget to all parts of Ukraine’s rural population. And that's 12,000 villages and villages, in almost 500 rural administrative areas, for almost a third of the population of Ukraine. The State Budget project for the following year initially provided only 6 million dollars at a minimum of 124 million dollars for these purposes. But after his second reading, they disappeared altogether. Addressing this issue once again, the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party strongly demands that the government, the Supreme Council, stop trying to solve the country’s problems at the expense of the village. We suggest that we return to the draft budget at least the small amount of rural sport development expenditure planned by the government for first reading. And we would like to see our statement as a request to the government and to the Committee on Budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u26	Igor Shurma of the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine is united. Then the dissatisfaction with the answer is two minutes, Yavorowski and Melniczuk, for the MP's request. Is there a Melniczuk Mikhailo?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u27	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. Ladies and gentlemen, as Ukraine's national deputy, as deputy head of the SDPU, I would like to inform you that on 21 and 22 November, an International Scientific and Practical Conference was held, "Social Democracy and Social Policy: European Experience and Ukrainian Perspectives". The conference was attended by representatives of social-democratic parties and social organizations in Austria, Belarus, Armenia, Poland, Serbia, Slovakia and Germany. The issues discussed by the conference were: based on the scientific and theoretical level of the concept of social policy, the state and prospects of social policy in Ukraine, a study of the experience of social democrats in developed European countries in the implementation of social programmes. And I would like to stress in particular one of the points that the conference has marked, namely: a united Social Democrat -- is it not one of the representatives of the parties of the centre left and left -- that scientists are actively involved in discussing the urgent problems of today, and especially those relating to the approval of Ukraine as a social state? The Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine, both by definition and by programmatic purposes, is committed to solving existing problems, upholding the social interests of Ukrainian citizens, and contributing fully to the socialization of the economy and social life. [[united]] And so, in some progress, the state is on the path of democracy and progress. We never shared popular slogans, which unfortunately became particularly fashionable in these walls today. Society, and this has also shown the conference, expects politicians, not words, not virtual dreams, but concrete and real steps, capable of providing decent living conditions for every Ukrainian citizen. SDPU(o) owns a developed organizational structure, a necessary experience, knowledge to support the wider scientific community not only to propose, but also to implement a social development programme, a development based on the idea of social justice. And as the Social Democracy Conference in Ukraine has noted, they are now working with the base that will help the state join the family of developed democratic rich European states. For example, as a matter of urgency, it is necessary to strengthen the position of the middle class, and it is legal to promote legislative protection that requires small and medium-sized businesses. Farming is a real job and a denial of market flexibility. And to the end. Ukraine's Social-Democratic Party, based on the conclusions of the conference, stresses that social problems are growing to a dangerous extent where there is no social dialogue and social partnership. [[united]] It's the axiom of life. And until the country’s politicians, first represented in this room, stop speculating in their own region’s troubles, work together, as long as Ukraine is mostly experiencing social upheavals. But we are confident that common sense will prevail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, let's see what we can do next. In recent times, we have often had deputies say that they are dissatisfied with the answer and that they demand words according to the Rules. Let's do this one last time today, everything else on Friday. Otherwise, we don't have the satisfaction of the MPs in general. So let's do it today, and then we'll do it in the normal order. Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u29	There is an appropriate statement, and Michael Melniczuk is next. Well, three, please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, our constituents! I am thinking about the political reform proposed by our President. One way is by constantly wanting to supplement it, to improve it. So let's say that this session is opened not by the oldest man, but by the richest man. It'd be kind of new, fresh. Let's say I'm absolutely convinced that in our own country with you, it's time to have another ministry -- the Ministry of Lies. It was one of the greatest, most popular. Because perhaps the biggest disaster we have today in Ukraine is the terrible lie factory that the authorities are producing today. I don't know if there's going to be one MP here, even from most people who say he's satisfied with the answers that come to our specific questions. There's a huge mechanism in place to go around all the sharp corners to be so trained as to answer and at the same time not to say anything at all. I don't know, at least for all the answers, those MP requests I've been making are a complete stream of lies and fakes. The last example I want to give you is what happened in my district right next to the largest polygon in Europe, the maple range, that's what happened in the village of Verbljana, in the village of Starichi, in the village of Koti. These are the villages that lie on the polygon. The press has written a lot about this in their time. I've been asking questions, too. They asked for a district council member, the district council. It ended with my request to Yanukovitch to create a commission. The commission was created, but our outstanding Kiev lights came, and I have no claim to them, but they came with ball handles to test over 300 children who became ill with unknown disease after the Italians had blown up their shells on the ground. Children had an incredible cough. At times, the temperature rose, and at times the temperature dropped. And it's a mass disease. To this day we have no answer, what happened? And the authorities lie to people, lie to them, and lie to them. Here's a mountain of answers I got. I'm writing to the Secretary of Defense: why did they beat up a man while they were taking care of him when these Italian troops retreated? I'm told he was on his bike, you see, blocking the tanks! As a result, he was tied up, abandoned, and taken away. I get answers from the government, everyone writes that so far we can't tell what happened. Meanwhile, this tragedy is almost forgotten today, the children are still sick, the parents who have experienced such a colossal earthquake do not believe in power today, and this gap between power and the people today is growing and increasing. I'm just asking the Ministry of Health to give these people a full answer as soon as possible, these are our citizens, these are our children, and they need to hear the truth about what happened. And the last. I want to pay attention to both the Secretary of Defense, and any country that signs a contract for use, let's say it's one line: environmental damage. And these environmental damage goes to the needs of those who live near the polygon. So, in this agreement, I'm told, there's not even a line like that. I think that this is the question that matures need to be solved immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u31	Thank you. Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u32	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I understand that with each day, it becomes more and more interesting to work in the Supreme Council. You no longer have the right to comment, then you have no right to speak, you have no right to be present in this room at all, you can go to anyone who does not say so. I address my address to Mr. Polakov Sergey Vasilovich, Minister of Ecology, and my comment will be as follows. I got two answers from the minister, two answers to the same question in the village of Yavorov in the region of Ivano-Frankow. One answer came in the same way as the four answers I received from the Valley Environmental Service, practically the minister did nothing to intervene and send the appropriate commission there, to find out what was going on there, and the other to verify that it would be checked in the near future, either in November, or in December, and not known when. So, Sergey Vasilovich, I am addressing you once again from the rostrum of Parliament. If you have taken on the burden of the minister, please understand why more than half a thousand people in the village of Yavorov in the region of Ivano-Frankov, where Naftogaz in Ukraine is doing what they want with their lands. It is no longer possible for people to grow such essential food as potatoes in the suburbs. It's about bringing up the minister. But since I have a rule, I would like to touch on one more question or two. After all, what's going on in the state today? We've just received dozens, the faction of the Socialist Party, the address of the Frost is a reference. It's all going to go up to 350 dollars a government act. Your Honor, why is it that the President's decree on this matter is not being enforced, that it should cost 85 dollars? This is my address to the appropriate services, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. And next. Yesterday, we were looking at an agrarian committee where the 600 million of the budget went missing, which was scheduled for purchase in the following year of grain in our peasants. There's an adventure coming up again, and it's getting ready again, and I'm sorry, the opposition to the agriculture we have. Where do these 600 million people go? No one can answer. Mr. Azarov is very good in Parliament, but he does not behave well with the villagers. As a matter of fact, Azarov, and the government that today is building a bomb under the peasants, are going to grow crops purchased at no cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u33	Yes, Rephat Chubarov. Very briefly, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u34	Reverend Head! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! These days Muslims celebrate the world. Bayram is one of the most important festival dates in Islam that ends sacred to believers in the month of Ramadan. The main essence of the month of Ramadan. Byiram is an aspiration for believers to know peace and understanding with loved ones and neighbors, the world around them. The Muslims of Ukraine, like all the citizens of our country who practice other religions, are doing their best to overcome as soon as possible the difficult socio-economic situation that our country is in, and according to all its citizens. On these holiday days, trauma-bairams are especially respectful to their fellow believers and to all their neighbors of other religions by words of good, peace and harmony. Having survived totalitarian times at the hands of ten-year repressions, violent deportations from the country's homeland, the persecution against the faith of its Muslim ancestors is consistent in their support of civil society in an independent Ukrainian state that will provide standards and conditions for all its citizens. Allow me, on behalf of many of you, to also congratulate the Muslims of Ukraine on their holiday. Byiram and wish all the citizens of Ukraine peace and good. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u35	Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u36	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! The Supreme Council approves the so - called minimum wage. Discussions are about reestablishing a so - called tariff network of teachers, doctors, government officials, military, and so forth. In addition, behind this tariff network, a teacher with university education receives a salary of 9 percent higher than a cleaning lady. With full responsibility on behalf of the Temporary Special Commission. I declare that as a minimum wage action called a tariff network is a gross violation of the labour cost laws and the time spent in the Supreme Council for its consideration is wasted time and decisions taken are wrong in principle. Our steps will lead to the massive concealment of true wages in the non-budgetary sphere and the payment of salaries in envelopes, i.e. the increase in the shadow sector of the economy. The government’s wages should not be taken into account by an absurd minimum, but rather by the wages of the most numerous in the field of manufacturing and services. This is the area of education. The average pay for education is accepted on international scales per unit. Workers in mining have the highest wage, it's 30 percent higher, and it has a factor of 1.3. The lowest wage is the agricultural sector -- it's 30 percent lower and has a ratio of 0.7. All other areas are in the space between the above defined. The teacher’s average wage is equal to 600 beakers per kilogram of bread per month, or the corresponding number of standard hamburgers. In this case, it's 720 bracelets per month. In fact, the corresponding money that the budget receives should be directed. the generally accepted salary scale. So what we're proposing is to announce for a few years a moratorium on increasing the so-called minimum wage, all the costs of directing the world's accepted salary scale, taking the teacher's wage per month for a unit. Ladies and gentlemen, we are surrounded by a wise world, unfortunately, smarter than we are. Instead of throwing stupid populist slogans into the Supreme Council, we need to see what other, more stable states are doing. Ladies and gentlemen, last Wednesday, Constantine Sitnik and I urged the Ukrainians to unite in the name of the constructive work of the Supreme Council, and we called for the creation of a new stately majority. We call you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u37	We're done. Valentin Grigorovich Matviev, please turn on the microphone. Head of the Committee on Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u38	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. First of all, I want to point out that we are currently working on a valid Supreme Council regulation, which, in my opinion, is, if you like, the basic law of the organization of the life of our entire Parliament. [[I think it's supported by most of the people's deputies.]] So, first of all, Vladimir Mikhailovich, on the basis of this room, and today, in particular, he gives the floor to the representatives of the same faction, to a few. Perhaps the approach should be the same. Secondly, with regard to your statement about the performances of the national MPs who are not satisfied with the answers to the parliamentary questions, as you said, "We will practice it only on Friday in "different." I would like to remind you of the requirements of the current Rules - I stress - of what is valid, in particular article 8.3. 3, this is part two: "The answer to the MP's request is announced to the chairman at the Supreme Council meeting if the MP insists on it, that's his right." The third part is, "Every deputy who announces an answer to his MP's request has the right to speak with a reply and to give an assessment of the answer. The time for such a performance shall not exceed five minutes." So let us keep to the requirements of the current Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, there is a need to consult. We were unable to vote and ratify some documents yesterday. That's where we get our deadlines. Above all, they do not have any political pressure. If you don't mind, dear colleagues, we will now vote in favour of ratifying these agreements. Is there no objection? Because we don't know what we're going to have there tomorrow, Thursday. Is there no objection? Please, Lechchenka demands. Handcuff, microphone, please. We're going to vote now. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u40	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I would agree with your proposal if we, the Supreme Council, would consider a draft law amending the Rules, which states that we always vote after the consideration of a specific bill. I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, we're about to practice. Then we'll get used to it and we'll vote all the time. I'm voting to make a decision on the ratification of the agreements right now. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Ad-hoc on the vote. [[11:14:35]] For 269 Thank you. Then at 12:30, we'll consider these ratifications. Reporters will be in position, no objection? A draft of the Ukrainian Housing Code is now being announced. It's an order to deal with this issue now, as the committee suggests. For reports and reports of five minutes, five minutes to answer questions, twenty minutes to discuss. Is there no objection? Then I invite the head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities of Semchuk Grigori Mihajlovich to report. Honorable colleagues, since we took the hour of fifteen to the presentation, for statements, perhaps we will work at 12 o’clock fruitfully if there is no objection? Thank you. It's sacred, isn't it? Give me five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u42	Dear National MPs, the housing and utility economy of Ukraine is one of the life-sustaining sectors that needs serious reform. There is no doubt about the value and urgency of such changes. Almost all regions are experiencing a life-support crisis, so reform is a necessity that can't be counted. Today we live by the Ukrainian RSR Housing Codex, which was adopted back in 1984. This is not the case with a number of issues that are no longer allowing us to go fully beyond the reform that is defined by our committee's strategy and approved by the government. The following questions remain unresolved. Providing housing for citizens in line to improve living conditions Today, Ukraine’s housing problem remains one of the sharpest, one and a half million families, between 10 and 15 years of age and older. Today, there are unresolved issues regarding the construction of the Housing Fund. There are nearly 5 million housing funds in operation, which are at the border level of wear, accident, or wetlands, with more than 190,000 inhabitants. Uncertainty of the procedure for the return of privatized citizens to municipal property. The Housing Code of the Housing Fund Privatization Act does not provide for this and there is a problem. There is no mechanism for social housing for the citizens who need it. Despite the fact that 75 percent of Ukrainian apartments are privatized, the relationship between new and former owners of apartments and houses is not settled. And there are a number of other issues that need to be settled. Thus, in the proposed new Housing Code, the key positions are the following. First. Maintaining the State’s obligations to those citizens on the home line until the adoption of the new code. The turn will be reviewed. There will be selected categories of citizens who need social housing and those who have been granted the right to housing by law, including in turn and in the first place. The other one. Payment of housing and services. It is suggested that the apartment fee should be waived and that a standard of living should be introduced, including rents, house maintenance fees, and income, utility fees, and capital repairs. Third. Social housing. It is proposed that a new form of housing be introduced at the legislative level for Ukraine, social housing is a residence that will be provided by the state and local authorities free of charge, or for affordable pay to Ukrainian citizens who need social protection. Four. The rights and duties of the tenant and the tenant, the owners of the residences, are clearly defined. Fifth. The responsibility of homeowners for breaking housing laws has been increased. Dear National Deputies! The draft code foresees how the extreme move to evict citizens, but what I emphasize is the decision of the court, including the non-payment of housing and services for six months in a row? There are no valid reasons. I would like to point out that this standard is fully in line with article 825 of the new Civil Code, which takes effect on January 1, 2004. Taking into account the complexity of this issue, the final position of the code may include a rule whereby evicting citizens from occupied housing without providing other housing cannot be applied to families in front of whom is the debt of wages and social benefits. Regarding the structure of the codex, it consists of 7 chapters, 10 chapters, and 100 articles. In the absence of time, I won't comment, I just want to say what I'm saying. The adoption of the Housing Code will provide the necessary legal field for citizens of Ukraine to exercise the constitutional right to housing and State supervision and control over the use and maintenance of housing. You sure? The rent for housing and housing services is the responsibility for the violation of housing legislation, the resolution of housing disputes. The conditions for the acquisition of private housing, the use of housing, reconstruction and maintenance of housing funds, privatization and reprivatization of housing are regulated. Conditions have been created to involve the population in the maintenance and management of the Housing Fund, which eliminates consumerism toward the Housing Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, the new edition of the Ukrainian Housing Code has already been discussed at the national and regional levels. The bill was supported by participants in the All-Ukrainian Scientific and Practical Conference "Housing-2003" in Odessa this year and on a round table held with a profile committee in October of this year. The main features of the new codex were published in the newspaper of the Supreme Council "The Voice of Ukraine". The government is asking to support this bill and accept it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. Please sign in. On the board are the names of the national deputies. Ivan Spodarenko. He's handing it over to Baranov. Please, Baranowski. Next, Gorlov, the faction of "Ukraine" will ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u44	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists. Dear reporter, would you please tell me that this policy is being carried out by the government as a whole? Yesterday the government pushed - and reduced the minimum wage: from 237 to 205. Today you're offering to evict people from their homes when you know that the minimum wage is virtually not allowing everyone to pay for utilities, and I'm not talking about medicine or food anymore. You're saying that you don't pay your salary. And let's talk about the level of wages, whether a person can pay off this salary and at least get a drink of water. You don't say anything about that. But you are proposing that these people be evicted from their homes today. Who are you looking at? Aren't you the kind of brother we have? The 13 billion are hidden in the 2004 budget of the income section. And here we want to raise the state in poverty by evicting them from their apartments. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u45	Thank you for asking. Why I focused my attention in my statement on this norm -- I knew there would be a discussion on this. Dear colleagues, by the way, in the current code of conduct, this rule is also prescribed, where articles can be used to evict people. As far as the code is concerned. We say that for half a year's pay, eviction is the decision of the court. This rule is in all countries, and today we need to clearly identify and have mutual responsibility for maintenance, I understand, for maintaining the housing fund. And what I wanted to tell you is that when I'm in the regions, at the meetings, today, both local self-government agencies are asking this question, and the tenants themselves, who are telling me that I'm crying, and the neighbor isn't paying who can pay. And if that question isn't settled, and I'm going to stop paying. So, dear colleagues, I understand that this is a very serious issue, and let's be clear that this rule should re-establish mutual responsibility in the area of the exploitation of housing. As far as wages are concerned, that is not the norm of this code.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u46	National Deputy Gorlov, faction of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u47	Please pass the word to Pecklusenko Alexandre Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u48	Alexander Paklusenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u49	Alexander Pecklusenko, 84-1 constituency, Zaporozhye. I'm interested in three questions. Question number one: How is the responsibility of the publicists to the tenants increased, and to what extent will the rights of our voters be protected? Second question: which of the mayors of the cities, the regionalists, supported the draft law? And the third question is, what is the alternative to eviction, are we really going to be able to come up with anything else today against those who don't pay and have the opportunity?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u50	With regard to the first question, What is the responsibility of the public authorities? We introduce, and the code provides, a contractual relationship between the consumer of services and the provider of services, and this is a fundamental norm that should work not only in housing, but also in the provision of services to others -- both water and sanitation, and heat, and so on. With regard to the second question, which of the mayors supported it? I've already said that this year, in July, there was an all-U.S. conference on the review of this Housing Code, where virtually all the heads of local self-government were present and this edition was unanimously supported with the corresponding additions that we've taken into account, the local self-government authorities. At the nine municipal hearings a month and a half ago, the strategy for reforming housing and utilities was to create eight expert groups: the public, scientists, heads of local self-government, where this issue was also discussed and also supported. So today, everyone is waiting, especially once again, for the heads of local authorities, local governments. As far as other standards are concerned. Question three. Are there any other standards in this matter? I don't see them. If you have any suggestions, we've arranged with the profile committee and head of Valery Pavlovych Pavlovytenko. A working group has already been set up to work on the second reading of the Housing Codex. Please, we are ready to consider if there are any suggestions on this third question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u51	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u52	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Dear Gregory Mikhailovich! I'm asking you, don't be surprised that today someone is trying to politicize even such a socio-economic, legal issue -- the Housing Code, it's a normal thing before the presidential election. Since the adoption of the current Housing Code, many times have passed, and market transformations in society have deepened, that is, the valid Housing Code has come into conflict with real life. That's my question. To avoid the shortcomings or inadequacies that today's Code violates, please tell us how, that is, give us a guarantee that the new Housing Code will take account of changes in the socio-economic conditions of Ukraine's development, of our efforts to get closer to modern world standards and standards in the housing sector? And the second question. Providing housing to those who are in line today with the adoption of the new Housing Code will improve or worsen? Thank you. Two questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u53	Thank you. What about adapting this bill to, let's say, European standards. It was conducted by an expert and nine municipal hearings by the director of the Department of the European Union, who is following up on these issues, and he made it clear that the standards that have been laid down and in the sector reform strategy in this case in the legislative bases are both correct and correct. What about the queue? Indeed, this question is very serious. The Housing Code provides for the preservation of those who were still in line. The queue will be differentiated, the group will be defined. Those who need social protection and will be given social housing, which will be built on the budget. And the second line -- who need housing -- they're going to be given appropriate credits, credits, loans, in accordance with a law that's now practically completed by the State of the State of the State of the Land of Housing. And by the way, in the Final Positions of this Housing Code, these articles, which I am now talking about housing, will be introduced after the adoption of the law that I'm talking about financing and lending housing in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u54	Yes, thank you. Sit down, time's up. Valerius Pavlovich Pavlovytenko, head of the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u55	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I'm very pleased in the crowded room today, in terms of the social significance of the scale of the tasks and the prospects for housing reform to be near the reform of the political system. And that's not an exaggeration. Ukraine still lives under the Ukrainian Codex of the Soviet Socialist Republic, which is full of outdated standards that have long since failed to meet the realities and needs of social development. This situation is a challenge for civil society, since it is this area that determines in many ways the degree of freedom and quality of life. The crisis that is gradually engulfing housing and utilities has not arisen today, but aside from the economic and social factors that are causing this crisis, the problem of underestimating this area, bringing it to the core of the technological problem, or the narrow question of the State's social obligations. Hence, financing by the ultimate principle, the ultimate principle, predominant administrative repressive measures in relation to the population, transforming the HKG into one of the factors that make our citizens' lives worse. First. It's time to finally realize that the reform of housing and utilities is one of the most important elements of the democratization of Ukrainian society, the large-scale process of implementing new standards of quality of life. The other one. We're dealing with a whole set of social relationships and processes. And the main social task of the reform of the LAG is to establish new standards, social interaction between citizens, between citizens and governance structures. I want to stress that housing reform is a kind of a mechanism to transform our society from passive society to an active civil society that knows and knows how to use its rights, based on a variety of forms of self-organization and self-activity at the level of territorial communities, social societies and committees at the place of residence, and so on. The next aspect. Under market conditions, the state is no longer able and should no longer be an exclusive investor of the farm complex. First comes the need to encourage and develop a private initiative, to transfer most of the competence from state to society. And first of all, it's about housing and utilities. That's why the LAG is the quality of life of citizens, their attitude towards the processes that are taking place in Ukraine. And finally, it's very much up to the reform of the LAG to become a Ukrainian middle class, a constructive majority, which forms the basis for internal state stability, a social basis for the development of democratic institutions. Our committee organized a comprehensive discussion of the draft Ukrainian Housing Code, which was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and a committee meeting was held on the way out. And for this reason, in Odessa, Donetsk, Zaporozhye, Ternopolis, other cities, and before that, it was published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. So that we can participate in it publicly. to our public. And a broad comment, including in various chapters of the bill. This topic was the main theme of the 9th All-Ukrainian Municipal Hearings in September 2003, which were attended by representatives of the State authorities, Ukrainian National Deputies, representatives of local self-government authorities. Many critical comments and suggestions to the bill were made in previous measures. The findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration contain 20 points of fundamental observation. The executive branch of the Supreme Council made 20 comments. The most important of these are the following. First. First of all, the project does not have a general definition of housing relationships that would allow them to define their specifics. There is no State obligation under the Constitution to provide housing for citizens who need social protection. As well as social guarantees for the payment of such housing, there are no social housing distribution mechanisms, the legal status of such housing, the procedure for obtaining and owning such housing, and social housing rights are clearly not defined. The project also does not properly define all members of housing relations. Without this, it is not possible to determine clearly their rights and obligations. The project must be in line with the new Ukrainian Family Code, the legislation on privatization of housing. Article 5 of the bill states that it regulates relationships that arise, exercise, and termination of ownership of housing. In fact, however, the project only touches on the subject superficially, not in agreement with the Civil Code. Third. The problem of evicting citizens from their homes is very acute. Despite the extreme urgency of the problem, the bill does not contain any clear rules on possible solutions, leaving everything to the court. In fact, the Cabinet of Ministers avoids solving this problem. And without solving that question, we have no right to adopt a draft law or draft Housing Code in a second reading. I support the question that the Socialist Party asked, which is an unresolved question, how to make decisions about the displacement of citizens. Four. Articles 16 to 22 of the draft Code set out a list of citizens who need to improve living conditions. However, the question of real housing is not resolved by the draft code. In fact, once again, as in earlier times, a long line of citizens is being established to obtain housing that does not have a material basis to date. In general, I note that the Code contains too many blue rules that are perceived in some cases under the law, but mostly refer to the future legislative settlement of certain issues. The committee considered all these comments in an extended session to make a final decision. In fact, we needed to determine that it was better to adopt an imperfect code of work or to adjust it once more for work and to waste time again. The committee took into account the point of view of experts, national deputies, authorities, and local self - government, who, in all the discussions, were mostly in favour of supporting the draft Housing Code and its elaboration, taking into account comments. We have come from the fact that all efforts by the Cabinet to improve the draft Housing Code with numerous improvements have only resulted in housing reform and further deterioration of the situation in Ukraine with housing, social tensions. It should be borne in mind that this is the fifth time a draft of the Housing Codex has been submitted to the Supreme Council for consideration. That is why the committee proposes to adopt the draft Housing Code as a basis and to entrust our committees, together with the Cabinet of Ministers, to create a working group with the participation of Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of all parliamentary groups and factions of our Parliament to finalize the bill, taking into account the comments made. In addition, the Cabinet proposes to make a number of warnings regarding further consideration of the Housing Codex. These warnings are contained in paragraph four of the Supreme Council’s draft decree. We propose recommending that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, before considering the revised draft Ukrainian Housing Code, should, on second reading, submit to the Supreme Council a package of draft laws on a single order of review of existing housing arrangements and the creation of a new housing fund and a social housing fund. In order to collect and use rents for rents, rents for housing and innuendo areas, municipal services and salaries, as well as the terms and conditions for the introduction of these types of salaries, the rules for ensuring the preservation of the surpluses in the corresponding accounts and other matters related to the turnover of these costs. Ensuring the rights of socially vulnerable groups during the transition period, implementing the regulations of the Ukrainian Housing Code and applying them further ensures the proper operation of the housing fund, preventing the misuse of housing, the self-renovating of housing and non-residential facilities, ensuring the right of access to premises to check the status of the premises, regardless of the property funds and increasing the liability of those responsible for the violation of housing law. We are confident that, along with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the committee's experts will be able to prepare and accept the draft for the second reading, along with the people's deputies, representatives of factions, proposals that we receive from you. Please support our suggestions, thank you for your attention. I can confirm that if our committee does not work with the people's deputies on the draft of this Housing Code, it will not be in our country at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u56	Questions, dear fellows, are there? Please sign up. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine None. Bubbles, please. Then there's Mikola Nightshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u57	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Valerius Pavlovich, you have rightly noticed that socialists are against eviction for non-payment. But in what cases? The government spokesman said that under important circumstances, the reasons could be evicted. What do you think is a minimum wage if it doesn't correspond to a minimum standard of living, or social assistance for unemployment, if it's so low that a person can't pay for an apartment, or, for example, a minimum pension that doesn't correspond to a minimum of living, is a valid reason or is it not a valid reason?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u58	I can do it very briefly. Right away -- no, absolutely not, it's a valid reason, and there can't be any eviction. That's why I suggested in my speech that we just work out the mechanism. The state has an obligation, it does not execute before our citizens according to the Constitution of Ukraine - it means no eviction should be. Absolutely. But what the law, the Housing Code, the government has not prepared in such a large way, is not seen in this, is that we ask for work to be done, to be adopted in the first reading, and we will determine how to do it with you. But there is another example. Here we were in a house in Odessa in 1978, where there is a union of joint owners. 108 apartments. Fifteen of them don't pay for an apartment. This person, who is the manager of this house in fact, says that everyone is a secure person, not a payer. What about them? This merger of the owners of this house should then resolve the matter. But social protection on the part of the State, what you say, must be provided for in the Housing Codex.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u59	Thank you. Please, Nightmare. Follow him, Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u60	Dear Valery Pavlovich. Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, 160th constituency, Trudova Ukraine. The adoption of the codex is a matter of great urgency and urgency. I have two questions. The codex contains a package of subsidies to support low-income citizens. Is this going to be a direct action or a link to the Cabinet of Ministers to set the subsidy parameters? That's the first question. And the second. In view of the development of democracy in our society, it has become common to disregard the rights of citizens who have legitimate grounds for first or second-hand housing. Does the new Code provide for a clear position to protect these citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u61	The Housing Code should provide for the protection of citizens. And there's another whole question. With the Soviet authorities, I forgive myself, but at the time, people took turns. What should we do now with those people on the line that we cannot afford? And the main thing is that our citizens' housing system is completely destroyed. They're socially unsecured. It introduces the chapter "Social Housing", its concept, which will also need to be worked out. As far as subsidies are concerned. We need to develop our economy this way, unfortunately, there are a lot of problems now that we have gradually stepped away from the possibility of granting subsidies so that citizens can get such a pension, such a salary and such a job to move away from it. And to resolve the issue of subsidies so that they can give a person the right to live normally, to eat, and to pay for the rent.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u62	Please, Widow, follow him Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u63	Dear Valery Pavlovich! My question is about what my colleague Bubba said. Today, unlike Gregory Mikhailovich, the head of the Committee said that when you meet with the electorate, it's one of the most pressing issues -- moving out of the apartment. The Constitution guarantees the right to housing. If we are evicting, do we exercise the same right to housing? Are we going to build ghettos for the displaced, or are we going to build concentration camps for those we're going to move out of our apartment? What are we doing? Today, the price of bread is rising, and yesterday’s salary was reduced by the minimum. And today we're adopting a law on evicting people from apartments? WHAT do I think of the state? Where are we taking her? To the social explosion? I'm impressed with your position, you said you should. This law cannot be adopted with this paragraph. You can't! We should think about those people separately. We have to pay them a salary, ensure a standard of living so that they can pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u64	Well, first of all, I'd like your proposals to be made to the draft decision so that we can rework the Supreme Council, where we're already doing a list of issues that we need to pay attention to. That's the first one. Secondly, I can tell you right now that I had a dream today, I didn't know you were going to ask me a question. To what extent? That 18 years ago, I was assigned to something like this to be the head of a paradise, and I never worked in the executive branch. And on the fifth day of my work, a house fell in Dnipropetrovsk, Ispolkomovska Street, 3. A man died. I looked at how people lived, and I realized that at the time there were so-called migration funds, points. It was a normal place to move citizens. In the event of a capital repair of our homes, when we move away, when we have accidents, when there are fires in which natural disasters can occur in our lives, including those who have not paid for our apartments. Well, I don't remember much of any person where the court made a decision, if that's family, about the eviction of these citizens. And to this day, this is a question that comes out purely into this political plane, not really the relationship between man and our society. Or housing workers. We must stand on the side of our citizens and combine all efforts. That's why we're in the Housing Code together with you to write a moving-out mechanism in a way that pleases our citizens and civil servants. And social housing will have to be created, and we will need it. Sadly, this system is virtually destroyed in all cities, with the exception of the city of Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u65	Well, if you don't mind, if you don't mind Calinchuk, that's pretty tight.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u66	Thank you, Calinchuk, attire. The faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Dear Valery Pavlovich! Indeed, the housing code for Ukraine needs, indeed, the bill before us needs to be seriously worked out. But not just to work on it, but to reconcile it, in my opinion, with other laws. For example, article 6 of the bill states: "that labour groups of enterprises, institutions and organizations, and groups of tenants may be subjects of private property rights to housing." But the Civil Code does not provide for this from January 1st of the following year. So we have to agree, don't we? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u67	Yes, in my speech, I just said that we have some inadequacies there already with the Civil Code of Ukraine. Indeed, if there is a private rental, it has the right to make decisions, and it can have the right to build housing, have the right to have private housing, and to use it as it should. This too needs to be predicted. Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u68	Thank you, Valery Pavlovich, for the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u69	I want to thank everyone again for your attention, for the speech. I'd like you to give representatives from every faction that's going to work in the task force right now, and we're going to work on a draft law for second reading, and the first one needs to be supported. And bring out what will please all of our MPs and factions, especially our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u70	Thank you, please, for the discussion, we have a great deal of regret, a lot of reports and answers to questions. So we have only 11 minutes until the end of the question. Please, Puzakov, get ready for Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u71	Vladimir Puzakov. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradstina. I would like to believe that at least a tenth of the housing problem in Ukraine has been solved by adopting the Housing Code, which has deteriorated to such an extent. This was a problem with Soviet power, too, considered very acute, but were they then destitute, unattractive, or were people living on garbage dumps, and housing was then considered the first need for human beings to be satisfied, educated and healthy. The policy of the State was therefore aimed at providing all citizens with affordable housing. In the late 1980s, 21-22 million square metres of housing were built annually in Ukraine, of which more than 80 per cent were free. In addition, current housing and utility charges amounted to only 3 per cent of the total cost of the family of workers or employees. For living in a dormitory, the worker paid 5 rubles a month. Student hostels were provided practically free of charge. Comparing these facts from the Soviet era with what we have today is not easy. Ukraine now has only 6 million square metres of housing per year, which is three and a half times smaller. And almost all the housing is paid. For a lot of money that the workers just don't have. It is not a secret that market reforms in the housing community have already begun. And so far, we've only gone through the first phase of this, the main privatization of housing. The second phase is currently under way, the phase of an unrestrained increase in housing and utilities tariffs. But it'll be over soon. And it will end with the massive bankruptcy of the owners of housing, with the subsequent transfer of rights to owners, to the JECEMs, who will be privatized and have the right to a simplified procedure for the eviction of non-payers by that time. At that time, workers will be forced to tear down the last dwellings, bringing enormous profits to Ukrainian capitalists, because there is no hope of obtaining housing for the worker. And it will continue until those whose hands are made of wealth will rise up and say: 'Stop mocking the people of Ukraine. Peace, huts, war, castles." And it is true to tell people that this Housing Code will not improve the housing problem because there is a widespread violation and non-compliance of laws in corrupt Ukraine with anti-national authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u72	Thank you. Instead of Cherniak, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko has the floor. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u73	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! First of all, I'd like to say that the work is really done by a lot of the Housing Code, according to the project, but there's still a lot of flaws. And first of all, I want to say that this draft of the Housing Code has not been passed through the Committee of Legal Policy, which deals with all such problems. The decoding, the systematization of legislation is provided for by the proper provision that it is the prerogative of our committee. We prepared the Civil Code, we prepared the Family Code, other codes, the Procedural Code. Surprisingly, even to others, we are not referred to as subcontractors, as once expressed here, after work. So even in the absence of time, I'd like to say that the draft code has a lot of flaws. Well, first of all, contrary to the Constitution, article 47 of the Constitution provides that certain categories of citizens are granted social housing. Where, though not in the housing code, it should be clearly stated what social housing is, under which conditions, arrangements, and so forth. I should also point out that there is no way to agree with the situation in the Housing Code, in the project, that in the absence of citizens for good reasons, imprisonment, for example, is in a residential home, a retirement home. The apartment can be passed on to anyone when it's a utility apartment and a place to live. Well, do you have any idea what strange people can do in a year, in two or more, out of this apartment? Nor can we agree that the concept of housing cooperatives, youth cooperatives, cooperatives, and cooperatives is virtually indisposed, since this should all be in the draft Housing Code, not in other laws. Property rights are granted to me in general, I think, the one who works in civil law, the nonsensence that property rights are created in support of rooms: toilets, kitchens, corridors and so on. When the Civil Code states that property rights include an apartment, a residential building, a residential area, and so forth, a conflict with the Civil Code. It's about transferring the hedge fund to the dead and vice versa. It is said that this can be done, but the Housing Codex does not tell us how this is done. The concept of family is not clearly defined. There is also a contradiction with the Civil Code, with the Family Codex. No incorporation of current legislation has been carried out. What Is the Codex? This is a systematization, a codification of existing legislation that is now regulated by any relationship with the apartment. We have today the Property Privatization Act, the United Owners Act. Not studied, not systematized, not introduced into the Housing Code. Sadly, there is much more to be said in the absence of time. I'm just going to say, at the very best, for the first time read again, but it would be better to send it back for processing. I am no longer saying that the Supreme Court has not ruled on this, and the Supreme Court applies the standards of housing legislation when it comes to evictions and many, say, the Ministry of Justice, many other institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u74	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Please. I don't see anything. Yeah, that's something. Please, Karmazin, prepare Shurmi. Hinzburg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u75	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. 161 constituency, Ginsburg. I read for myself. "The need to adopt Ukraine's new Housing Code is due to significant changes in the socio-economic conditions of our society's development with you to the transition of Ukraine to the market economy and to modern world standards." It's that, if you don't understand why, we've moved with you to modern world standards, and standards, including housing. So that we don't get rid of our constituents and work with them all the time, we're working in the district again next week, starting December. You come and people come with questions. And what are the questions that concern us today? Does the current Housing Code solve these issues? The first problem is the high cost of housing. It hurts, it hurts, and it hurts the management, the administration of cities and areas, and it hurts the people who pay. The second question is today the state of housing and utilities: these are our homes, apartments, adjacent territories and so on. They are in critical condition. Third. I especially wanted to talk about dormitory. People who live in dormitories live in horrendous health conditions, unsanitary conditions. Third, third problem, is a large number of people who are in housing, who are growing in turn, and who are moving in a year or a year or a year. A very small number of people are receiving housing, i.e. they are hopelessly on the line. And the fifth, as important to me as it is to me, is that why these problems stand, and why is the State's uncontrolledness behind the development of housing and utilities in our country? And as I read this Housing Code, the following questions arise for me. I'd like to hear them. What's the difference between housing and non-residential housing? It is not clearly defined by code. Because there is such a problem that the first floors, especially the small cities, today appear under shops, offices, bases, discotheques. And people living on other floors suffer greatly. This is not decided by the Housing Codex. According to the draft Code, there is a possibility that when a contract is complicated, for example, before marriage, a person could not move into a home after the marriage is registered because the other party does not agree, this was not stated in the contract. It has to be noted that the bill already has rules to combat systematic housing defaults, it's evicting people, it's also evicting people, it's also evicting them, it's giving them other housing and housing to systematically destroy and destroy the house. No one has a standard when it can be taken as a foundation and evicted from our homes today. When I finish my speech, I want to say. The housing system is not regulated by the State. For me, there are such suggestions. Today, we can very clearly clarify these questions and remove them from the problem. That's the first one. To provide such a payment system for people who have to pay for housing, they pay according to one scheme; people who have nothing to pay, they need social security, they have to have a different scheme and approach; people who live in homes where a large family was, then someone dies, others leave, they don’t need to worry or count this area as a residual. All these elements are not defined in the codex, so it needs much work and cannot be adopted today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u76	Please, Shurma. Then from the Semenyuk Privatization Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u77	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I want to remind you of the essence of the bill. This is the creation of a single legislative act, which in a systematic way contains rules governing the legal relationship of natural and legal persons in the housing sector. The transformation processes in Ukraine have exacerbated all social problems, including housing. In this matter of particular importance comes the fair distribution of social resources, which can only be adhered to on the basis of appropriate legal standards. The Housing Code is called upon to provide a comprehensive legal basis for settling all relationships that arise in the field of use, possession, and maintenance of housing. While appreciating the very fact that a draft Housing Code was being created, it should be noted that this document is the first approach to creating a comprehensive and clear legal act compatible with the principles of a socially oriented market economy. Given the large volume of the document, I want to stop at just some of the fundamental points that are causing denial. It should be borne in mind that most of the issues in such sensitive areas as housing and property are generally dealt with in court. Therefore, the Codex should give a clear definition of all concepts and its articles should not be declarations of intent. In particular, one of the basic concepts of the draft Housing Code, which appears more than 100 times in the document, is “family”. However, the definition of this concept in article 1 “The basic terms used in the Code” is not given.There is also no justification for the concept of “young family”, “one young citizen”. There is a reference to article 4, which provides for another alongside the Housing Code, legislation regulating housing relations. But the Housing Code is designed to bring all laws into one document and thus to make it easier, both for professionals and for ordinary citizens, to use legislation that directly applies to each person. There are also no rules for the establishment of social and general housing, and it remains unclear in which case a citizen is entitled to receive the right to take up residence as a general purpose and in which to obtain social housing. On the issue of housing for citizens in the state and municipal housing funds, the draft Housing Code does not provide a clear definition. Whether that means giving its citizens the right to privatize it immediately, that is, in fact, free transfer to property. It seems that the transfer of new housing to property free of charge in modern conditions is economically unfounded and socially unfair. Such privileges can now be enjoyed by a small percentage of people while peasants and the majority of the urban population can buy or build housing at their own expense. While appreciating the bill as a whole, the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine believes that it can be accepted as a basis for further work. [[united]] We consider the bill to be the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u78	Thank you. Please, Semenyuk. Well, we agreed that we wouldn't stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u79	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatization held a round table on the issue of post-privatization housing and relations. Given the comments made at the round table and the bill presented today, it should be noted that the main point made today by the Special Monitoring Commission is that there is an undetermined circle of housing relations and that's the main thing. Today there are 100 percent privatized houses, but the decision of the state administration, the state administrations, the government administrations, these objects are transferred to municipal property, forgetting that there is a need for a clear settlement of the issues of law and the answers to these questions today, the Housing Code unfortunately does not provide. This is the main observation made by both our commission and the scientific expertise department. What's really scary is that today, as set out in the Housing Codex, socialists also said, is that evicting people without them. For non-payment of housing and utility bills. What's important is that this bill, in particular in article 32, does not define not only the non-payment of housing and utility payments, but also the main social housing that my colleagues of the people's deputies have already said here. The legal mechanism of Article 10 on transfer is not defined. the transfer of the housing fund to non-residential. It's not a defined mechanism, and this is, first of all, not a rule of law on co-owners of housing. There is no direct protection for the rightful owners of apartments that go for alternation, demolition, and eviction. There's no guarantee that if the house gets demolished, he'll go back to the same apartment and have the same housing area. These include articles 45, 46, 87. She does not comply with the law on local self-government and the Civil Code that my colleague, the head of the Onopenko Committee, spoke of here. Indeterminately, especially, I would like to stress this, the bill clearly states the obligation to evict in repairs, in reconstruction, rather than being defined as voluntary. If this issue has already been settled in privatization. That is, if the residence is already privatized and the citizen is given adequate housing, it is predicted that if the house is reconstructed or evicted, it will be decided, even without guarantee, that he will return here. In view of the comments made by the Special Monitoring Commission, we consider this document to be a work in progress. To tie these issues to the rules of the Civil Code. Well, the main thing is, this is the Cabinet of Ministers itself, the Supreme Council's decree on those citizens who can't be evicted for non-payment of housing and utility bills. This contradicts article 22 of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u80	Please, Blackman, one minute, and we'll be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, the attempt to codify housing relations, the idea itself, the attempt, it's being implemented to some extent. But I share the idea that there is still work to be done on the Housing Codex. Perhaps for a second time, perhaps in the first and the second reading. To some extent, the codex is declarant. And it would have to be decriminalized. It would have to be more systematic to make this a systemic solution to these relationships, the legal relationship in the housing sector. I share the idea that we need to define more clearly the area of housing. This is the issue that he's having here, and I think the main question that's going to have to be solved in the process of processing is clearly the area of housing relations. This is the first one. The second is to clearly identify all the property-relationship mechanisms, which is also the main question of the Housing Code, how to address property issues, housing fund issues and non-residential funds, social and special purposes, housing payments, non-payments, evictions -- all of these aspects of property relationships that are made up in the housing-relationship process need to be addressed. And I also share the idea that we need to define all the concepts more clearly in order to make this code fit for its purpose. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u82	Thank you. Out of procedure, please, Gmira. Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, the Communist faction asks all colleagues not to vote in favour of this anti-national law, otherwise it will be embarrassing for all who have shame. I'll give you an example, here's where my colleague was right about the tragic fate that he's having today. on the tragedy children are experiencing today in the Yavoriv region. But the Communists warned ten years ago that use. The admission of foreign troops to Ukraine would have the most unpredictable consequences. Unfortunately, including representatives of national Democrats, they voted in favour of using this polygon. Let us avoid making such mistakes so that we do not have to bite the elbows afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u84	Please, Yavorowski, then Headmaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u85	Vladimir Yavorowski. I want to speak to my colleague, whom I deeply respect, to Mr. Humiry: Sergei, I've just made it clear, the thing is that there are foreigners and so on, the thing is simply in absolute ignorance, the corruption of ours, of those who are on this range and of our military. I see a reason there, and as for this law, Adam Ivanovich, and the honourable colleagues, I would like to put it simply in the transcript almost unworked, or the problem that concerns today worked very badly, I think a million, or one and a half million people at all. It's these so-called famous dormitories, we've actually put people in a totally misunderstood situation for them today. I think we just need to go to privatization and solve this knot. In Donetsk today, how many of these towns where mines have stopped, and there are only these dormitories or small families, as they were once called. There are the same things in my district, I'm just asking for a second reading, and I'm going to make these amendments, and I'm going to ask the MPs who have some ideas, so let's solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u86	Thank you, Chief, and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman! I'm about to turn my back on what the deputy Yavorowski said, and I want to tell the representatives of the State Committee. You don't need the Housing Code to solve the problem of innkeepers. Why don't you draft the law or change the law. You don't need a code to solve the problem of social housing. You don’t need the Housing Code to solve the issue of social security, you don’t need a code to decide whether to pay for utilities or rent housing or so on. You don't need the code. Adam Ivanovich, a fundamental reference to the secretariat that serves as much as it does the bill, how could it be that a normative act called a code, and a code is a higher degree of systematization of what it is today, followed the Committee of Legal Policy. You heard what the Desert Tank said today, "It's not defined what housing relations are," and because they're not there. The correct thing is not defined, so what did you systematize? Someone said that it was not defined that the concept of the family was different from that of the Family Code, that the concept of ownership was different from that of the Civil Code, would you excuse us? When we systematized things about rent, property, employment, inheritance, and so on. These are all things. It's all in the Civil Code, in the Family, and it's some kind of parallel alternative or something. Adam Ivanovich, in principle, is not a codex. That's the first one. There's no systematization. But even if it is accepted in the first reading, in the second reading, Adam Ivanovich cannot pass without the Committee of Legal Policy, which dealt with the Civil Code, the Family Code, and the Procedural Codes. You said right, all the issues of disputes -- they're not going to be evicted, they're not going to be taken away, they're not going to be sold, they're all court matters, they're being considered and introduced to Parliament by the Committee of Legal Policy, because it's a process, it's a property right. Therefore, only a draft law, called the Code, must go to a legal committee. It was the same thing with the Waste Codex, by the way. And then, for the second reading, if he doesn't go, even though I'm going to take him back to the Cabinet of Ministers to get rid of these things that relate to taking away people's housing, because you say it leads to world standards. To what world standards? In which countries of Europe there is a government that is the principal debtor, takes money from people in 10 years, has nothing to pay, and the state will evict. Who is the debtor in this situation of the State before man or man before the State? Of course it's a state. So I would recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers do it anyway and remove these stupid things, which are unacceptable in terms of common sense, so that the person who can't pay is evicted and then considered, but with the compulsory participation of the Committee of Legal Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u88	Thank you. Let's, let's give this assignment to the secretariat, to the machine that, in fact, the codes, where the code is called, to be necessarily, if not the first, then the second, but necessarily to count the committee, were sent to the committee on legal policy, because it really has a direct bearing on them. During this discussion, we completed a discussion of the draft Ukrainian Housing Code. We will be appointed on the day of the vote. There is a question, registration number 2424 and 2424-1, the draft Law on Lombards in Ukraine. I can't see it. Yes. Please report to Oleg Jaroslavovich Tajnibok National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. The purpose of the Ukrainian Law on Lombards is to create legal security for the sustainable development and activities of Lombards in Ukraine, to protect the legitimate interests of consumers of Lombard services, to define organizational, economic and legal principles for the creation, activity, restructuring and elimination of Lombards, to establish requirements for the provision of lombards, to define regulatory functions of the State and to monitor the activity of Lombards. The main task of the law is to enforce the basic principles of lombardism, to define the only conditions for the provision of lombard services, to increase State control over the activity of lombards, to eliminate abuses in the area of financial services. In addition, one of the priorities of the law is the restoration of the historical nature of the pawnshop, the creation of an effective population microcredit system, the operational financial assistance to enterprises and organizations to solve the current problems in their activities, the expansion of the lending infrastructure in population areas with a small population. The notion of "lombardy" in the sense of Ukrainian is a semi-mafific structure, the main activity of which is the sale of stolen property and a clear interest rate association. But the history of the Lombard case tells us that it was the pawnbroker who was created to resist the loan shark. But the early pawnshops were founded by Franciscan monks and were even blessed by the church for helping people. Therefore, one of the priorities of this bill is to remove the possibility of covering up the pawnshop and selling stolen property. The problem in drafting the bill was the identification of activities that the pawnbroker could do and the listing of his related services. If the granting of financial loans was unquestionable, the involvement of financial assets from individuals, deposits, was a cause for controversy. According to my opponents, including the Scientific and Expert Department of the Supreme Council, Lombard deposit operations will bring pawnshops closer to banks, create competition for banks, and not allow them to exercise proper control over such operations. But I think that if we can get proper control of the pawnbroker's deposit operations, we can have a special authority that will be able to license the activity as soon as possible to the existing law enforcement functions. In addition, for example, the Kiev Lombard, who worked in the pre - revolutionary Kiev, carried out loan operations alongside deposit operations under fairly decent interest rates. And so the position “The granting of Lombards the right to make deposit operations” has a historical basis. Finally, it is not clear why financial monsters like banks will be afraid of competition with pawnbrokers. Although the question is contradictory, it can be considered. This bill provides for the possibility of lending not only to individuals but also to legal persons. This situation will contribute to the development of small and medium - sized businesses, facilitate the replenishment of small-scale businesses, and ensure the common simplicity and speed of obtaining loans for legal persons themselves. The Law on Lombards, Honorary Colleagues, is just the first step towards the creation of legislation that regulates this segment of the financial services market, provides for a whole range of sub-legislative legislation on reporting of the approval of Lombard lending rules, licensing of the activities of public registration. Regrettably, the drafting and submission of the bill took place without the participation of the State Commission, since the State Commission had not yet existed. However, for the time being, the holding commission already exists. I have information that there are professional professionals working there, and so during the consultations we agreed to support the decision to take a government bill based on some of the proposals of the MP's bill, which will be agreed upon in the second reading. Since there were no two bills, let's say very important differences, I think our cooperation on this background will be effective, and we will be able to adopt this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u90	Thank you, Oleg Jaroslavovich. Is that clear? Two questions, three. Then write it down. Three minutes, please. Nigga, follow him Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u91	Dear reporter! It's very interesting to ask questions about loan transactions and deposit transactions. Still, what is the ratio of these operations, what is the mechanism of interaction between them, are they going to complement each other, or are they going to contradict each other? How will this matter be resolved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u92	In fact, you know, I've made this suggestion to your mind, although I've been doing, let's say, consulting with the employees of the State Commission, and I've found that I'm not going to be able to make a positive decision. So I don't want to insist, let's say on this thesis and on this norm of this law, I think this is exactly the moment that we can, let's say, from the MP's bill we can step down and go to a government bill. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u93	Please, Semenyuk, behind her, Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u94	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Please, Adam Ivanovich, pass the word to Matthew Vladimir Josephovich, a colleague of the commission. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u95	Please, Matthew Vladimir Josephovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u96	Dear Chairman! Respectable Ukrainian People's Deputies! I would like to ask the question of procedure, not in essence. The point is that, according to the Rules of Work, 22 minutes ago, we had to cancel. He was asking a question. I understand that it was possible not to call off until the matter was over. Another question began. I asked you to give me the floor by procedure. Adam Ivanovich, if we work in the Supreme Council in terms of concepts, then we're cool. That's not what I'm talking about. If we're working legally, there's got to be a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u97	Yes, please, Hinzburg. Follow him. She's behind her, Schurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u98	Dear Oleg Jaroslavovich! I have a question for you. The Communist faction, Hinzburg. I have a question for you. Please tell me we're going to be looking at two bills today. Is your bill part of the government bill "State regulation and control over the work of pawnbrokers"? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u99	I got it. It's just that my bill doesn't reflect enough that part of it, and yet it doesn't seem to be sufficiently reflected in the government bill. Here, I think we're going to complement it together, and your proposal has an idea that this point right here, this article has to be expanded. State control must be necessary. And this has to be written legislatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u100	Thank you. Please, Shurma. Well, I'm sure there's one left.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u101	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[United]] I have two questions. First. Article 16 of the bill establishes a list of financial services that are entitled to provide the lombard. One such service is buying goods from citizens of precious metals and precious stones. But according to the Financial Services and Public Markets Act of Ukraine, buying precious metals and precious stones is not part of financial services. Please comment on this norm. And the second. Why doesn't the project regulate the state control of the lombard activity? Do you feel that such control is unnecessary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u102	Mr. Igor! Thank you for asking. I'll start with the second one. I just answered Mrs. Hinzburg's question to our colleague, and that's exactly what I said, that I think this is really a chapter, this article has to be in this law, it's going to have to be worked out on the second reading. As for article 16, paragraph 4, “See Lombardy Services” And especially about buying goods from citizens from precious metals, precious stones as one of the rights to provide future financial services. Similarly, this rule of law, which was proposed in my draft, will be removed after consultation with the State Commission. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u103	Please, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u104	Dear Oleg Jaroslavovich, please tell us how this law provides for the responsibility of those who violate the rights of users of lombard services. What punishments will it be for those who punish, I apologize for the tautology, the consumers who come and use the lombardy services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u105	Thank you. You know, really, there are no articles on criminal or administrative liability here. And I would ask you, we've discussed this before, I would ask if you could, if you have an offer, in writing, please give this wording, because you're absolutely right. As far as I can remember, another bill does not have the same standard. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u106	Thank you. Please, the government bill will report to the head of the State Commission on the regulation of financial services markets, Victor Ivanovich Suslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u107	Dear People's Deputies! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is introducing a draft Ukrainian Law on Lombards and Lombard Activities. The need for the adoption of the Lombard Act stems from the lack of legislative regulation of this important segment of the financial market. Today, the activity of pawnbrokers is regulated by only one special normative act. This is a decision of the Council of Ministers of the Ukrainian RSR since 1979 to approve the standard statute of the Lombard. Currently, there are about 460 pawnbrokers in Ukraine with statutory funds from 15 copies to 10 million dollars. Briefly on the concept of the bill. The government proposes that a classic pawnbroker scheme be established as a financial institution whose sole activity is the granting of financial loans only to natural persons. The project also identifies the list of related pawnshops that can be provided by pawnbrokers, i.e. the responsible storage of property, the assessment of collateral assets, the sale on the commission terms of the mortgaged property in case of non-refundation of loans. Lombard is formed in the form of a state-owned enterprise or full society, the minimum size of the statutory pawnbroker fund according to the bill should be set at a level of at least 20,000 euros, the source of financial credits that Lombard grants to only natural persons is its own costs of pawnbrokers and bank loans. According to the government bill, the pawnbroker has no right to include funds from natural persons. To ensure its capacity, a pawnbroker must form a reserve fund. The financial services of the pawnbroker are licensed. State regulation, licensing and the supervision of pawnbrokers according to the project is carried out by the State Commission for the Regulation of Financial Services Markets in Ukraine. Ukraine's Law on Lombards and Lombard Activities was discussed at the Supreme Council Committee on Finance and Banking and supported. The government agrees with the comments made in the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and suggests that they be taken into account when preparing the project for second reading. We believe that it is appropriate to take into account the legislative proposals made by the people’s representative, Dragnibok, to them. We express our gratitude to the national deputy of Tagibok for his fruitful cooperation in drafting the bill. We suggest we accept the project in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u108	Thank you, Victor Ivanovich. I get it. There are no questions. There's one thing. Please, two. Sign up. Yes, please light up on the board. Nigga, after him, Nadara. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u109	Dear Victor Ivanovich! Still, in which direction should the pawnbrokers move, as a specific segment of the financial market. Should they approach the banks in their functions, as proposed by the representative of Tegnibok or not, as you view it?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u110	No, I already said that from the point of view of the government, lombards should be a classic pawnbroker. So lombard is a financial institution whose sole activity is to provide financial credit to individuals under collateral. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u111	Thank you, please, dear Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u112	Dear Viktor Ivanovich! Here the previous author of the previous bill said that in principle a single bill could be passed. Well, let's not go to the first reading, let's go to the second reading, your opinion on the subject, because if two laws go like that, it might be that not one of them will go through, but the topics are important, your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u113	Yeah. The topic is very important because the issue is not resolved and in the absence of time, I simply did not say that the pawnshops are doing anything today. There are pawnbrokers who trade gas, there are pawnbrokers who deal exclusively with retail trade, and lombards do many kinds of services, unless this is settled by law. In any case, this area must be settled. There are two bills, and we have every chance that you and I can get a proposal for one project together. The basis for this is the compromise position of the representative of Tajnibok, who here made it clear that he agreed to adopt a first-reading government option so that a number of his specific and useful proposals detailing the regulation would be taken into account jointly. So for today, I don't see any contradictions, I think we can adopt, refine and quickly adopt the law. You understand the problem for us as well as for the regulator. We cannot supervise them today. According to the pawnbrokers, we don't have any legislation, we have an act, I said 1979, Ukrainian, and the one that claimed only the statute, the example of the pawnbroker. That is why there is no regulation today. Today, there are many violations in the pawnshops, including the use of cash that is not entirely understandable for lending. Individual pawnbrokers use purely growth-friendly methods of work. You didn't ask for interest, because these individual pawnshops have interest rates of 20 per cent per month, let's say, not per year, and so on. It's all becoming a problem. So the problem has to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u114	Please, Baranowski. After him, Kruglov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u115	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Socialist faction, Baranowski. Victor Ivanovich, please tell us how impossible this law is, or at least would weaken the black market for precious metals, precious stones. Aren't the pawnshops going to be, well, again, a boil that we can't figure out when it's all going to go shadowy, shadowy, and we're going to legitimize it by law? How transparent will this be, and how far does this law make such shadow schemes impossible?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u116	Well, first of all, this bill doesn't allow pawnbrokers to run a bunch of precious metals and stones. It's very important. And the main thing is that the law introduces a pawnbroker control system. And in the structure of our State Commission on Financial Services Markets, we've already created a Department of Non-Banking Supervisory, which will also oversee pawnbrokers. And so the approval of this bill allows for the introduction of state control in this sector.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u117	Please, Kruglov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u118	Victor Ivanovich, you said in your report that pawnshops have no right to include the cost of individuals. Please give me an answer. Could there be a situation in which a pawnbroker can become a member of a credit union and use the expense of a person through a credit connection?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u119	No, it's just that members of credit unions can only have individuals under the law. But we're giving this bill an opportunity, and it's right for the pawnbrokers to use bank loans. You see, if they are allowed to keep their deposits, our responsibility with you is greatly increased for the preservation of such deposits. While pawnbrokers lend their loans in exceptional cases and at higher rates than banks, they will be able to pay higher deposit rates than banks. A situation of overcrowding in the lombardes may arise. With minimum requirements for pawnbrokers' statutory funds, of course, this process is highly undesirable because it will be difficult to guarantee the preservation of the population's resources. That is why, first of all, we are opposed to the fact that pawnshops attract deposits and individuals. Secondly, we would like the Supreme Council to agree that a pawnbroker is formed in the form of a full partnership, that is, when responsibility is borne not only by the statutory fund but also by its shareholders, its founders will be held accountable.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u120	Thank you, Victor Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. The committee reports to the national deputy Kaputsin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, you are now given a law on, or more specifically, two Laws on Lombards and Lombard Activities and on Lombards in Ukraine. Our committee discussed this issue, and we discussed it at a committee meeting. And as the rapporteurs have said today, these two laws are very important because they regulate a market segment that is not regulated. We do not have legislation on pawnbrokers, and there is a problem that has not been discussed today, which is related to the fact that lombardes, among other things, are under the Money Laundering Act, are the organs of primary financial monitoring. And that's why settling their activities is absolutely necessary in our relationship with the FATF. In addition, there are nearly 500 pawnbrokers in our country. When we passed the Law on Non-State Pension Funds, we talked about that there are almost 100 non-state pension funds in Ukraine that work outside the legal field. So we have 500 almost pawnbrokers who also work outside the legal field, and we absolutely need to settle this situation. Especially with regard to these bills. First. I am very satisfied with the reasonableness of drafters who are willing to compromise and compromise. We can conclude from this that we will be able to prepare a joint bill that will pass through the Supreme Council. I would like to say that when we discuss this issue on the committee, one of the main things was that we can't let the pawnbrokers slide into financial organizations, into banks, at least now. Because banks are regulated slightly differently or substantially differently than other institutions, organizations that provide financial services, and therefore we cannot now allow the risk of actually providing banking services to other organizations that are either not regulated by law or otherwise regulated. We therefore propose to adopt the bill of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as a basis, but we believe that the bill of the People's Deputies of Tajnibok has many valid points that deserve attention. And I'm sure we have a serious chance of bringing these bills together and making them one, preparing for second reading and accepting them in second reading and in general. We are now recommending the adoption of a bill by the Cabinet of Ministers to be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u122	Thank you. I would call on everyone to do the same. Indeed, in order for us to have such a mutual understanding that the bills are alternative, but they find an understanding of two subjects, and there is no conflict, and we need to take value in both and accept. Thank you. Have a seat, please. We had five national deputies for the discussion. Carmazine. I can't see. School. Get ready for the Cherniaks. School too, probably 40 years old. Then please, Nigger. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u123	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Lombard activity and pawnshop services are an important and specific segment of the financial market. In fact, it is not regulated by law, so there is an urgent need to regulate this area of legislation and therefore the bill, the two bills that are proposed, are correct and I agree with what needs to be adopted in the first reading. If the representative of Dragnibok is demonstrating his ability and tendency to compromise, then accept the government's first reading and supplement it substantially in the process of preparing for the second reading with the right, specific proposals that are in the bill of the representative of Tajnibok. Now, about the wishes that I would like to express in the process of discussing the bill. The main question is to clearly identify the field of pawnbrokery. That's the main question. This is done in this bill, because lombardes often perform non-specific services, and if we want to reduce the abuse that exists in this area, we need to clearly define the scope of the lombardy services. Which is exactly what it belongs to. Give a clear list. The second question is the elimination of abuse in the field of lombardy services, the failure of shadow schemes, especially where it applies to precious metals, and it's also in the bill, but it might have to be written more clearly. And the third question is the question of responsibility, the issue of control and sanctions. The responsibility of founders, shareholders, regulators control, responsibility, appropriate sanctions for violations. I especially wanted to focus on control issues. Yes, we need a regulator. Unfortunately, however, there is a need for control by the regulator, and there is a need for monitoring of the regulator by the public, civil society. So far it's irrelevant to that question. And with the opportunity, the situation in Ukraine that requires a regulator needs control on its part, requires control of the regulator, and requires control of those who exercise control over the regulator.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u124	Thank you. One check is national, and everything's gonna be fine. Please, Solomon. Get ready for Kosinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u125	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, today we are considering another bill aimed at improving the existing capitalist system of power in Ukraine. I want to do a little bit of help first on the origin of the pawnbrokers. They originated in France at King Louis XI in 1480. They were made of thugs, natives of Lombardy, Italy. And in the 19th century, they were in the hands of big capitalists in all capitalist countries. In the 20th century, Lombard’s business is concentrated in the hands of capitalist monopolies, which Lombard loans only receive large percentages. Mostly on the basis of low-income populations. In the Russian Empire, they were founded in 1733, but at a monetary office. And since 1772, the casino pawnshops have been discovered in St. Petersburg and Moscow, and then the pawnshops have become active only since the beginning of the 20th century. In the 17th year, there were 109 municipal lombardes, along with the stockbrokers, but after the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution in 1918, the old Lombard system was dismantled by the Soviet authorities, and in the 22-23s in the Soviet Union, settlement lombardes were formed in the local council system. They were meant to issue, first of all, a small percentage of the loans at 75-90 percent of the value of the things that were being invested, a limited percentage that had to be paid, was clearly defined by the repayment date. What are they offering us now? Except for the beautiful slogans about state control, nothing. This whole pawnshop thing is about getting into private hands because of the level of equity and sucking out the last thing he's got left open. So our faction will not support these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u126	Thank you. Please, Kosinov. I can't see. Then I'm glad.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, the topic that we are discussing today, is, in all likelihood, unnecessary, so to speak, and not of such supernatural relevance, it is in fact demanding its legislative regulation. I am absolutely in solidarity with the speakers who said that the example of non-State pension funds shows that if there is no special law, anyone can, excuse me for misphrasing, wonder how it might be. And so what needs to be done today in the pawnshop is that I am absolutely in solidarity. The next moment, I would like to note as positive that the two authors were prepared to make two laws one, and therefore they were ready for a constructive work that would be positive. However, I am addressing both one author and the other, and the Committee on Identity: the question that I have asked, I will still repeat it. And so. How will the bill recognize the responsibility of those who violate the rights of consumers of lombard services? I mean, I think that there must be a separate section of the law, where it will be clearly and clearly written, how the pawnbroker himself, his founders and, accordingly, will be held accountable if the consumer of these pawnshop services is violated in his rights, I do not say, will lie there and everything else. I think one option on this subject may be the link between the real pawnbroker's statutory fund and the volume of financial services it wants to provide to the population. Only in this relationship will we not allow 15 bracelets to register the pawnshop and then provide services for millions, and then not find the pawnbroker or whoever created it. And one more point, if you're left with a little bit of this, is the limit of time under the Rules. I want to go back to the last question when we discussed the Housing Code. I am deeply convinced that we can and should address housing issues. But I am embarrassed, and I believe that more stringently in the Housing Code should be the subject of how and who will protect the rights of residents if they do not receive utilities or receive these utilities in the wrong amount and not the right quality. Or we write with you as the tenant is responsible until eviction, and in fact today people sometimes pay for cold batteries, for the lack of drinking water, and for all the services that actually existed, and for the fact that the person did not get it. I therefore believe that, in the Housing Code, if we are to regulate housing, there must be a shared responsibility and responsibility of the public authorities for the full volume of housing services being provided, they should not be easily declared, but strictly spelled out as the responsibility of public services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u128	Thank you. So the draft Law on Lombards in Ukraine has been concluded, we will be determined on the day of the decision-making. Dear colleagues! Just like you and I have made up our minds. I recall that 269 national deputies supported the proposal to make ad hoc today and to consider ratification issues. That's why we're about to go into ratifications. What, what? What law? About what? No one shot it. It's going to be considered, but we agreed that at 12:30, at 12:30, we couldn't, because we didn't have the right to interrupt the consideration of the issue that we were considering, to return to ratification issues. After the ratification issues, we will follow the order of the day that we have approved today. The draft Law, registration number 0147, on the ratification of documents for the redefinition of the state border between Ukraine and the Republic of Hungary. Reported to the first deputy head of the Ukrainian State Border Service, Paul Anatolyovich Shisholin. You're a co-reporter. Please, Paul Anatolyovich, within minutes, in general, make us.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u129	Yes, it is. In accordance with the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Hungary on the regime of the Ukrainian-Hungarian State Border, a joint review of the border between Ukraine and the Republic of Hungary has been conducted since 1995 between 1997 and 2003. In the course of the tests, the marking of the state border line is carried out. Three new polygometric columns and 25 border columns have been set up instead of missing and damaged. In addition, there are 374 border signs that define the most characteristic points of curves between the state border line. All border signs are currently being repaired. In accordance with the Ukrainian International Contracts Act and article 2, paragraph 6, of the Treaty on the regime of the Ukrainian-Hungarian state border, cooperation and mutual assistance from cross-border issues, the red tape documents must be approved by ratification. For your consideration, the Government's draft Law on Ratification of Relevant Documents of the National Border of Ukraine between Ukraine and the Republic of Hungary is submitted. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u130	Thank you, Pavel Anatolyovich. Is the question understood? Have a seat, please. The profile committee is headed by the committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov. Please, Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u131	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected companions. The committee reviewed the draft law that was introduced, examined all the documents that had been submitted, and thought that we should ratify the document.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u132	Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich. Sorry, Georgi Korniyovich, there's a question. Yeah, no more than a cook? Then please, Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u133	Dear reporter, I understand that this is not a single document, that is, not an international treaty, but a few international treaties. So the question I'd like to ask you is essentially legal. That's right. The Supreme Council should agree on the obligation of each international treaty. So, in your opinion, would this not require a separate law from the Supreme Council, whereby we then consent to be bound by every single instrument, i.e. every single international treaty? I think this is a very important question. I mean, I'm sorry to keep stressing this procedural thing, but it's the level of rule of law in the state that, as we know in the world, procedural rules depend on the level of rule of law. So I would ask you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u134	Dear Roman Mikhailovich, thank you for a very qualified explanation. But the point is that in this case it's a set of documents, each of which in itself is not self-sufficient. They're a set of documents that record a redefinition of the state border. When you read them all, they are all connected. So we came out of the fact that they had to be ratified by one law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u135	Thank you, Georgi Korniovich. Have a seat. But let's probably go to both the Chief Legal Authority and the Committee on Foreign Affairs to look again, really, at this problem that the National MP Zvaric drew attention to. There is no desire to share in the discussion. That's why we're done. There is a proposal to support this bill and vote in favour of ratification. Please vote. [[12:55:09]] For 303 Ratified. Thank you for your support. Dear colleagues! The registration number 0130 - draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol amending and supplementing the International Convention on Air Safety Cooperation, which was signed on 13 December 1960. I would like to remind you, my fellow Members, that we have here exactly the situation that Roman Mikhailovich mentioned that there are six corresponding agreements. So maybe let's unify all of these six, one reporter. Regarding Eurocontrol, we will join together: a report, a report, a report, and a discussion. Okay? And then we're going to define each one individually. Then the Deputy Minister of Transport of Ukraine, Mr. Vladimir Volodymyrovich, has the floor for the report, please. For everyone concerned with Eurocontrol, it's brief, it's concise.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u136	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, six interconnected drafts of Ukraine's legislative acts on the acquisition of Ukraine's membership in the European Aeronautics Security Organisation "Eurocontrol" are proposed. These projects are designed to implement President of Ukraine's decrees to approve the strategic integration of Ukraine into the European Union and the programme to integrate Ukraine into the European Union. In particular, on Ukraine's accession to an international convention on cooperation in the field of European aviation security. On Ukraine's accession to the Additional Protocol to the International Convention on Security Cooperation, Eurocontrol. Concerning the adoption of the protocol on amending and supplementing the Additional Protocol to the International Convention on Air Safety Cooperation of 6 July 1970. On the ratification of the Protocol amending and supplementing the International Convention for Cooperation in the Field of Aeronautic Safety, signed on 13 December 1960. Regarding Ukraine’s accession to the Multilateral Agreement on Payment of Route Congregations And the sixth. On the ratification of the Protocol, which consolidates the International Convention for Cooperation in the Field of Aeronautics Security, with all the changes made on 13 December 1960. We would like to consider these bills in a package, given that the ratification of all drafts is a prerequisite for Ukraine's accession to Eurocontrol. The acquisition of Eurocontrol will allow Ukraine to improve the effectiveness of the national integrated civil-military system of the air traffic organization, to continue the process of technological modernization of the national air navigation system, which is now in co-operation with Eurocontrol, to enable it to participate in the pan-European air traffic programmes, to increase the attractiveness of Ukraine's airspace for the airline, to enable Ukraine's potential as a transit state, to open up new opportunities for entry into the European market for Ukrainian manufacturers and foreign investment. The introduction to Eurocontrol will undoubtedly contribute to the improvement of flight safety, the acceleration of adaptation of national regulations and procedures in the field of air traffic management to the One European Standards, the increase in air traffic in Ukraine's airspace, the further integration of the aviation sector of Ukraine into the European Transport System and the creation of appropriate preconditions for Ukraine's membership in the European Union. The implementation of Ukraine's draft laws does not provide for payments from Ukraine's State Budget, according to the conclusions of Ukraine's 23rd This year's 06th Bills meet the Constitution of Ukraine, the current legislation and the requirements of the norm-design technology. These bills received a positive assessment of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate and approval of the relevant committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please accept the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u137	Thank you. Please have a question, then sign up. Three minutes. Lighten up. Please, Ponomarenko, follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u138	Pomorenko, the Communist faction. Deputy, I'm here. I'm a few, we've been trying to get some of the air navigation money into the State Budget to fill the Treasury. We've been told that you can't take, you get solid amounts from these, solid funds for air navigation fees. But you can't give it because it would be contrary to international air navigation rules. Explain, we are reaffirming today that we will not take a penny from the air navigation fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u139	Yes, it is. With these congregations, it is impossible to get into the budget because we simply will not be able to work with this organization. The organization’s charter states that these funds or funds should be used only to maintain flight safety.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u140	Please, dear. Behind him is Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u141	Please tell me we're discussing today that if we ratify, we'll get some good out there, I don't know what else. Tell me, what will we lose if there is no ratification? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u142	We're going to lose a lot. I said it would allow us to cooperate with the European Aviation Insurance Organization. And the loss is that we're working with them today, but they're only bilateral agreements. And we lose, first of all, on the number of flights across our territory, which means, in the congregations, we lose the ability to work in their system and continue to upgrade our flight safety system. So the losses there are significant.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u143	Please, Melniczuk, follow him Zvarich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u144	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear reporter, of course we have to ratify, we will vote. But please tell me whether the ratification of these agreements that we are going to vote on today will affect the responsibility of the officials of the Ministry of Defence for what happens to us in the course of our studies once and for all. And is there a ban on flights during the training of our troops so that there are no incidents like we're crashing civil aircraft, or do the officials of the Ministry of Defence feel that the ratification of these treaties that we're about to adopt today is going to increase, or is it said to be more responsible for their attitude towards teaching and conducting these teachings in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u145	I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u146	Thank you. True, it's not the Ministry of Defense, it's the Ministry of Transport. Please, cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u147	Dear Adam Ivanovich! I actually have, again, a procedural question, but I've decided, most likely, all you have to do is give the Supreme Council an explanation on this issue, on this point. We now have our Deputy Minister of Transport, and we don't know if he's authorized by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to present this bill, and more importantly, it's about the law on the granting of commitment, or constitutional powers, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But I would ask you to also say, Adam Ivanovich, is it even possible that such bills would not be a member of the government? For it is known that the deputy minister is not a member of the government, even though he may even be authorized by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I mean, I'm stressing this because not a specific minister is the subject of a legislative initiative, as you well know, but it's the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as a collective body. I mean, I would ask you to explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u148	Vladimir Volodymyrovich, please sit down. I'll explain, because this question concerns me more. I fully support a fellow cook who really has to report to the government. We have absolutely nothing here, because we have letters from the Cabinet of Ministers signed by the Prime Minister asking that the Minister of Transport of Cyprus be on board to represent the Deputy Minister. I'm sorry, I didn't announce it. There's what's going on under the first bill. Since the head of the State’s Foreign Service is in Belarus, he settles the matter abroad, he is entrusted with the first deputy. Also signed by the Prime Minister. So this procedure is completely over. But thank you. We remind ourselves once again that we really should represent the Cabinet of Ministers. Dear colleagues who wish to share in the discussion. [[Well, let me check again.]] From the procedure? Yes. True, we're not that one yet. Come on, please. According to the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Stanislav Telisforovich. Please, while he's on his way, from the Klukkowski procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u149	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. The Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting discussed the bill on an international convention as well as five other bills, including 0130, 0131, 0132, 0133, 0134 and 0135. These are protocols, they are an integral part, and they all have to work together. The adoption of these laws is necessary for the creation of legal principles for Ukraine to become a member of the European organisation for the safety of Eurocontrol and the implementation of Ukraine's strategic foreign policy course for integration into the European Union. Before making a decision, we received the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Committee on Construction, the Committee on National Security and Defence, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Budget Affairs based on their conclusions, and after the Committee's consideration, unanimously decided to ratify. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u150	Thank you, there is one question, please, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u151	Yuri Klukkowski. The National Movement of Ukraine. Victor Yuschenk faction "Our Ukraine." Dear reporter! The materials that were handed out yesterday from the names of these documents show that these are 5 documents. 0132 — Convention. 0130, 0131, 0133, 0135 - Protocols. You said six documents. The sixth document here at risk in our agenda is the ratification of the contract for payment of the traveling congregations. This is not a protocol to an international convention. It's a separate deal. What is involved in this covenant, what is its attitude toward Eurocontrol. We didn't hear it here. Why do you want to ratify it together we didn't hear it either. Please give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u152	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u153	Thank you, the question, indeed, the right number 0134 is not a protocol, but there is a draft law on the merger of Ukraine into a multilateral agreement on the payment of route congregations. But they're all connected to each other for these flights. And he's on the list, and it's not an accident for a stenographer to call this number. The committee also decided to recommend ratification to the Supreme Council by considering them in a package and under this separate law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u154	Who are the parties to this covenant, which nations?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u155	The parties to this agreement are almost all European Union nations. The prime minister reported in detail. I'm reporting the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u156	Now, dear fellows, don't worry, everything will be fine. No more questions? Sit down, Stanislav Tellisforovich. Please, the deputy minister will now answer your question. Turn the cabinet on. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Deputies! 31 The European State is part of this organization, virtually all the leading countries of Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u157	I'll read it now. I have a bill. The Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Austria, the Kingdom of Belgium, Spain, the French Republic, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Ireland, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Portuguese Republic, the Swiss Confederation. These are the sides that, as it were, are in this covenant. Dear colleagues! We didn’t sign up for the presentation, so the discussion ended. I remind you, each of the agreements will be voted on separately. Prepare for the vote, please. It's from the Chernobyl procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u158	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I have a question for one of the 0136 deals, and it's in a package. It did not say that it was clearly out of the context of other covenants. And there is a general question about the relevance of such a multilateral agreement, when this issue can be considered in a bilateral order.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u159	Thank you. She's not in the bag right now, she'll be next, we'll listen to her separately. That's another question. Yes, Your Honor, I ask you to vote on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol, which amends and adds to the International Convention on Cooperation in the Field of Aeronautic Safety. [[Registration number 0130]] Please vote. [[13:12:00]] For-300 Thank you. It's 300. The law is passed. Please vote, registration number 0132, draft law on Ukraine's accession to the International Convention on Air Safety Cooperation. 0131 me. Yeah, sorry, I already announced 0132. Let's do 0132. [[13:12:40]] For-300 Thank you. It's 300 again. Registration No. 0131, draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol, which consolidates the International Convention on Cooperation in the Field of Aeronautic Safety, with all the changes made on 13 December 1960. Please vote. [[13:13:17]] For 310 We're already redefining the standard, 310. The law is passed. Registration number 0133, draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Additional Protocol to the International Convention on Air Safety Cooperation. 0133. Vote. [[13:13:51]] For 315 Thank you. 315. Even better. We're getting better, though. 0134, draft law on Ukraine’s accession to the Multilateral Agreement on Payment of Route Congregations. 0134. Vote. [[13:14:27]] For 310 0135 is a draft law on the adoption of a protocol to amend and supplement the Additional Protocol to the International Convention on European Air Safety Cooperation. Vote. [[13:14:55]] For 312 Thank you, 312. Decision taken. The law is passed. The registration number 0136, the draft law on the ratification of the air flight agreement of the Armed Forces of States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States, is in compliance with. Reported the Chief of General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Alexander Ivanovich Zatinaiko. Please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u160	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The agreement on the provision of air navigation flights by the Armed Forces of States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States was signed on behalf of Ukraine by the Prime Minister of Ukraine on January 25, 2000. But the point is that the Ukrainian side will exchange information that does not constitute a State secret under this treaty. At that time, the treaty was ratified by the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Tajikistan, the Republic of Armenia, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation. Given that the Ukrainian Armed Forces are interested in obtaining the necessary air navigation information from other parties to this treaty and taking into account a number of practical aspects related to international cooperation and the security of flights of their military aircraft, the Ukrainian side has developed an appropriate approach. A corresponding draft of Ukrainian law has been developed. The purpose of this agreement is to establish an air navigation data exchange order for military airports and other relevant information from participating States. The effectiveness of the treaty for Ukraine will contribute to improving the safety of air flights by military aircraft, the ability to carry out joint measures to combat terrorism on air transport, to provide military aviation with timely and reliable data on the order of air routes by States, routes beyond them, their equipment, radio-technical equipment, the provision of necessary air navigation data, as well as cooperation in the coordination, development and issuance of documents that contain air navigation information for military aviation by the parties in a single method. An essential practical aspect of this treaty is the provision of the Ukrainian side's military aviation with the information provided above to carry out flights of Ukrainian Air Force aircraft. In the framework of the open-air agreement, in particular, for observational flights over the territory of the Russian Federation and joint learning. In line with the standards and practices of the international civil aviation organization, the exchange of integrated air navigation information packages that are part of the State’s air navigation information collection and are being conducted within the framework of the ICAO International Convention. In doing so, the provision of air navigation information is related to a military element, and the forms of this convention are not provided, since it only applies to civil aviation. The implementation of this treaty will be carried out through the issuance of air navigation information documents by the military authorities, their military forces, on the basis of bilateral agreements between them. The implementation of this treaty by Ukraine will be ensured by the Ministry of Defence. The draft Ukrainian law is supported by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please support the proposed draft Ukrainian Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u161	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. There's a question, please sign up. Please wait, Alexander Ivanovich, there will be questions. Light up, please, for three minutes, Baranivsky is behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u162	The Socialist faction. Alexander Baranowski. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Alexander Ivanovich, Your Honor, please tell me, in fact, by the name of the bill itself on the coexistence of independent states. First. Not all nations are being ratified. Maybe the law can say exactly who we're ratifying and calling it that, and then we've said a lot about friendship with someone and I don't think he's wearing it in the very name of the particulars. And one more thing. Taking advantage of the opportunity, in Berdichev, you are deploying an aircraft brigade of helicopters one of the best in the armed forces, which is part of the Rapid Response Brigade of Zitomirski. And now you're switching to the West and they're going to fly out and help. According to the military, a huge mistake is being made. Please note that it is not too late to stop what is being done there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u163	Dear National Deputies! To date, the military air force of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is primarily using this information that we are given when we speak, but we do not always receive it and are not always likely. We are primarily interested in this information because in the Russian Federation Armed Forces at General Headquarters, information on all the airports that were part of the Soviet Union Armed Forces is still available today. Unless geography changed somewhere. In the Armed Forces of Ukraine, this information is not available today. After the treaty has been ratified, we will have this information accordingly. According to the Army Air Force Brigade in Burditch, in the Ukrainian Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u164	Alexander. It's not a personal question you're going to talk about, because please, Jemilev, get ready for Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u165	Thank you. Please pass the word to Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u166	Dear reporter! You've talked about that by ratifying this treaty, we'll be able to do joint military training with the other parties to this treaty and that kind of training. So there's a specific question. BY ratifying this treaty, will we allow other parties, that is, their military or military air force, to cross our territorial border? This is a specific question. Is that what this treaty foresees? And second. As is commonly said, Ukraine has not signed the Commonwealth of Independent States Statute and there may be a question as to whether we are a State party to the SND. Would that not result in such an additional situation that Ukraine would then give its information, and since we are not members of the SND, we would not receive any information?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u167	As far as the airspace of the military air force is concerned, the State of SND. Today, in order to cross the state airspace of Ukraine, military courts, as well as civilian courts, are claimed by the appropriate administrations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but then the Ministry of Foreign Affairs gives this information to the Ministry of Defense in order for us to consider that these aircraft are dangerous cargo on board this aircraft, and we simply agree, we do not allow it, but we agree on it. Accordingly, they cross the airspace into the single air traffic management system that exists today in the state of Ukraine and pay a contribution accordingly. The only question that we are looking at at at headquarters today is not to cross the airspace, but to use the airspace of the sea, the aviation group that is part of the Black Sea fleet that is flying in our airspace after carrying out the tasks of combat training. With regard to the information that we provide, we will not be provided with this information. If these five states that have ratified the treaty, only these five states will use this information accordingly. Those nations that do not take part, they will not use the information. We show up accordingly. have not signed the Commonwealth of Independent States collective agreement and are observers. But at the same time, the information provided by the Military Committees of the General Staff, the Chief Staff of the Commonwealth of Independent States, is of interest to us quite often: it's a question of using the means of impressions that the Russian industry has been producing today. Today, we are interested in the question: The experience of using peacekeeping units to maintain peace, which is also worked by the armed forces of the SND States. And other issues, including, first of all, the Partnership for Peace programme, where we are partners in the implementation of this programme, we decide every time, whether to participate in these exercises or not. But when involved, military airports are properly used, military aircraft. And we really need navigational information to work at these airports.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u168	Well, I've already announced. Please, Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u169	Stepan Bulba. Please pass the word to George Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u170	Thank you. George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear reporter, there's only one air traffic management system in Ukraine -- civilian-military. Ukraine belongs to an organization such as ICAO. Please tell us, how are such transportations or transfer of military aircraft to Europe or to other countries that are part of the ICAO system regulated? Why don't you say that the Warsaw Treaty and the Soviet Union, which was separated by an iron wall from another world, fell out of this system, and now, in some way, to close this gap within the SND, they're trying to reach this agreement. We can work in the world system itself, in Europe, in ICAO, based on those basic documents, including those signed decrees by the President of Ukraine on European integration? So where do we integrate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u171	Thank you for asking. In Ukraine, there is a single civil, ICAO military system for air traffic control. I have to report that this agreement will allow us to use military aviation at military airports, because today, and I'm reporting in confidence, only in the 15th Air Force Brigade there are three aircraft -- AN-24, AN-26 and TU-134, which are equipped with the ICAO system. There are also six aircraft of Ukrainian IL-76 airlines equipped with ICAO, and there are four helicopters carrying out tasks in Sierra Leone that are equipped with ICAO. The rest of the aircraft in the Ukrainian Armed Forces are not equipped with this system, and there is no funding for this system. But at SND military airports, our aircraft are not equipped with ICAO. Just as we can accept airplanes from other states that are not equipped with ICAO.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u172	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich, please sit down. The committee reports to the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Stanislav Telisforovich Staszewski
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u173	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs has discussed the draft law to facilitate the creation of a legal basis between the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States in the field of security Air navigation documents and data will increase the safety of airplanes of military aircraft when flying under the plans of the Ministry of Defense. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the bill can be adopted. The National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council supports the proposal on budget issues. On the basis of documents and reports on the committee of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence, the committee has decided to ratify it, and we ask you to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u174	Thank you. I see a forest of hands. Please sign up. Please explain. Three minutes. Turmanov, behind him - the gmira.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u175	Turmanov, please. None. Gmira, after him, of course, Bulba. Nor is it. Bubbles, please. Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u176	Thank you. Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine After all, we got an answer from Alexander Ivanovich Zatinayako about the question that George Manchulenko asked. How would you answer that question? In the end, and indeed, there's a problem that's being used all over the world, it should also be our acquisition, obviously, of aviation, including military. If we really integrate into Europe, into world society, if we're really preparing to fight with the use of aviation, not armored trains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u177	All I can say is why, because I have a committee decision to report in accordance with the Rules. I briefed him. As far as your question is concerned, I'd like to get your attention. The entire package of documents was handed out at the right time. If you carefully read the articles of this covenant, we will find the answer to all questions of interest. It's signed by almost all SND members, except there's a document in front of you, I'll give you a call. Yes, I said, except that it was not signed by the Government of Azerbaijan, not signed by the Government of Georgia, not signed by the Government of Tukmenistan and the Government of Moldova.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u178	Please, Yavorowski. After him, Avramenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u179	Dearly beloved! I have a question for you. One day, Ukraine is moving all the time, on the other side, to lunch one and then after lunch the other way. We already have a EP. So I think what it's going to be right now is going to be called the only airspace, the epp, I think it's going to be called now? Yes, both planes can fly freely. Let's say, over the President's Administration, I understand that the Administration will be able to protect them there. And since the President is now, let's say in the hospital, don't bring God, anything will happen. Should we go in like this right now? We're putting our space and everything at risk. They accepted the EP, and it turns out to be a filk's letter. So much war, so much emotion, and the hair went to Tuzla, and the EP is just a piece of paper that can be thrown out. So is it something like that that we want to accept or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u180	I wouldn't say that. Why? Because we will return to the meaning of the covenant itself. To use it, we also need to fly, and we need maps. Without the cards, we don't get the cards if we don't join the deal. So to fly to think, fly, or not fly, a mechanism is already in place. But we have the legal security of the map.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u181	Yes, please, Avramenko. You don't? Well, no, it's not. Zero. Yes, please sit down, Stanislaw Telisforovich. Yeah, I don't have a single on my monitor. Well, you can insist, but the thing is, they're recorded where they're recorded. Please explain the list of entries. Motivated by Zvaric, Klukkowski, insists. Please, after a minute, Zvaricz, follow him Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u182	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I didn't actually take notes because I thought that there was no problem in this treaty at all. As we have heard today, this treaty will practically open up the possibility of crossing our state border, air space by the military formations of those parties that have acceded to this treaty. As we know, this issue of crossing our border is regulated by the relevant law, I will not call it not to be mistaken, and this law has just taken effect according to the constitutional position, and it is so clearly stated that any formation of foreign states can cross our border, that is to say, to be in our territory, including in airspace, exclusively in the event that the Supreme Council agrees to such a crossing in each individual case, at the request of the President of Ukraine. Therefore, this treaty does not meet the Constitution, it does not comply with the laws of Ukraine, and thus it cannot be accepted, it clearly contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine and therefore cannot be ratified, because it can cause a very serious constitutional conflict.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u183	Thank you. Please, Klukkowski, follow him Kruczkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u184	Yuri Klukkowski, Ukrainian People's Movement, Viktor Yushchenka's bloc faction, Our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that once again in our report, we become objects of incomplete or conscious misinformation. The point is to claim that without such a contract, our planes cannot fly is either naive or direct deception. Airplanes are flying today, but not because there is no contract. Today, airplanes are not equipped with well - recognized international equipment, but this treaty will not help to equip them. This treaty is aimed at passing on the military secret of Ukraine to other states, but I am not convinced of the plural. Tell us that the Tajik planes are flying here, or do the Belarusians fly in or do they fly in Kirghiz? Only one state, not the SND as a whole, is interested in getting information that is Ukraine's military secret. And that's why I want to remind the EP that Tuzla was finished. You want this treaty to end with the bombing of Ukrainian territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u185	We don't need that, of course, please, Hookers, there will be answers to the questions that have sounded because it has something to do with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u186	Dear colleagues! First of all, this law has no relation to the Act on the Order of Admission in the Territory of Ukraine of the Armed Forces of Other States. This is not about allowing us to travel across our territory to the territory of the armed forces, as defined in the international treaties, then that law will apply. So these are completely different things. This is the exchange of air navigation information that is needed for the normal functioning of not only military but also civilian aviation. And as to who's flying and who's reacting, when the Americans flew through our territory and into Afghanistan, they were delivering weapons and everything that we could and didn't see in the Supreme Council. It didn't bother anyone, and when it comes to normal aviation work, it causes, unfortunately, a negative reaction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u187	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u188	I urge you to ratify this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, thank you all for taking part in this discussion. Question completed. Indeed, let us once again appreciate what the head of the Committee on National Security and Defence said. Every particular incident of military flight, of another state's aviation, we will consider under another law and give or refuse to give consent. This is about providing air flights to the armed forces, the cooperative forces, and air navigation information. We provide information, not open air space. Please. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty on the Provision of Airfare by the Armed Forces of the Commonwealth of Independent States on Aeronautic Information is submitted to the vote, registration number 0136. Vote. [[13:40:22]] For 215 Dopkin, please. Turn on the Dobkin microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u190	Your Honor, we failed. There was a late vote. We just jumped into the hall. Please put it down, we haven't been able to vote! Please ensure our constitutional right to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u191	Teeth. Then we'll have a cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u192	Dear Adam Ivanovich, we have indeed failed to vote because. Repeat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u193	I see. Roast, please. Matthew Vladimir Josephovich. Boiler, and then Matthew, I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u194	Dear Adam Ivanovich, it seems to me that we have already agreed with you that another ballot in this room will not take place. So we've all agreed to this rule in this room. I would ask you very much to follow the Rules. You have recently become the first deputy, one more time the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I wouldn't want you to start your second term with such a rude violation of the Rules. Do not give any reason for our faction to blame you for harshly violating the Rules. Moreover, the Teeth had just voted. There's a roll call, he just voted. So don't let the people's deputies lie in this room!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u195	Please, Matthew Vladimir Josephovich. I'm one representative at a fraction of each.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u196	Adam Ivanovich! I'm sorry, all MPs listen to those words. The Rules had been violated, no interruption of 12 hours had been announced. The deputies took a little rest in the open. Indeed, they failed to vote. Therefore, I ask you, in order to exercise the right of deputies to vote, to put to the vote again because no interruption has been granted.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u197	Dear colleagues! Please calm down. There will be no violation of the Rules. I'm going to put a question to the vote. Who's to vote on the bill? He'll see to it. I'd like to make a statement. Who's in charge of voting? We have every reason. Please vote. [[13:43:13]] For 253 Watch the printing! Dear colleagues! Calm down. Everything's gonna be fine. We didn't break the rules. The Supreme Council, in accordance with the ad hoc procedure, has the right to make any vote. 253. It's about voting on draft law 0136. Please vote. [[13:43:55]] For 248 The law is passed. Please. Dear colleagues! It's a motive. Now with motive. Klukkowski, please. Turn on the Klukkowski microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u198	Yuri Klukkowski, faction of Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine", the National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! We have just witnessed another vicious forging of the results of the vote. Not only did the chairman put the matter to the vote in violation of the Rules, he also voted in favour of his colleague in the Presidency, and note that only one representative of the Supreme Council in the Presidency voted in two ballots, and one member of the majority voted in a number of ballots of the "Our Ukraine" faction. This is how the vote was falsified, and this vote cannot be recognized. Don't think it'll work out that way. I would like to recall the decision of the Constitutional Court in which the law adopted by the voting procedure has been declared invalid since the vote. We will address the Constitutional Court in this regard. So I propose not to acknowledge these results of the vote, so that there is no criminal case on the floor of the documents of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-26-m0.u199	Dear colleagues! Calm down. Everything's gonna be fine. First. The rules are not violated because the Supreme Council has given 253 votes for us to vote on. First. The other one. We received 248 votes in favour of the law. Third. Now I'm being accused of voting with my head card. Please show me a copy of this bill. Now, where are the 248, let's see. And for the rest. This is going to be very interesting for our Ukraine. The treaty that we voted on behalf of the Ukrainian government was signed by Victor Yushchenko. Thank you. At this morning’s meeting, I declare it closed. I would like to remind you, dear friends, that at 3 p.m. in this session hall we will be holding parliamentary hearings on "The situation of young people in Ukraine." I'll see you later.
