ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like your honors to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:43]] Registered -380 There are 380 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies, in view of today’s Government Day, on the Conciliation Council, we have agreed only to announce the parliamentary requests that have come and then proceed to work according to the schedule of meetings, to the draft schedule of meetings. I'd like to do it again, dear colleagues. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputy Plujnik Igor Aleksandrovitch. Let's welcome him. Let's wish him well. I'm moving on to the state-of-the-art question. People's MPs have been asked. Vladimir Puzakov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine concerning the gasification of the village of Nova Praha in the Alexandrian region of Kirovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:03:08]] For 1052 Decision taken. Omelana Parubka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the groundless rise in prices of fuel-oil materials in August this year. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:03:36]] For-136 Decision taken. Igora Ostasa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funds for the construction of the Palace of Culture in the village of the town type Dashava Strysk district and the commemoration in 2004 of the eighty years of gas mining. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:09]] For-95 Decision taken. Mikoli Katerinczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to implement article 52 of the Ukrainian Act on the 2003 State Budget for Ukraine on the gasification of rural schools and settlements in the Winnitz region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:43]] For-146 Decision taken. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for humanitarian assistance to the Republic of Iraq and its financial and economic justification. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:14]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Valentina Savitsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to perform the duties of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by officials on parliamentary questions announced at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:45]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Bogdan Kostinuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in response to an unsatisfying response to a request for financial expenses related to a public discussion of the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:16]] For the 120th. Decision taken. Vladimir Petrenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the calculation of the pension of the Arzamasts civil aviation pilot. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:46]] For 113 Decision taken. Georgia Manchulenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of funding for the information programme of the general educational institutions, the computerization of rural schools for 2001-2003 in the Chernivsky region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:19]] For 114 Decision taken. Alexander Golub to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the delay in the wages of the employees of the Novokah new construction plant Sokol. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:47]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Valeria Assadchev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the increase in the amount of one-time assistance when moving under the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:20]] For-162 Decision taken. Valery Mishura and Igor Alexeyev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the real goals of introducing a single state-owned register of people with benefits. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:50]] For-93 Decision taken. Stepan Cloud to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal elimination of secondary education, number 36 of the Ukrainian language of instruction in the Lenin district of Donetsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:22]] For 158. Decision taken. Vladimir Anishuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the replacement of veteran benefits by targeted assistance. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:49]] For 106 Decision taken. Bogdan Kostinuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to take action to honor the memory of the victims of the 1932-33 famine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:17]] For 124 Decision taken. Mikoli Katerinczuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for compensation for the construction of social buildings in the village of Winnitsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:44]] For-149 Decision taken. Anatolia Grzezhev and Vladimir Spivacuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the construction of a garbage dump near the villages of Kamyanec Podilski and Danube Region of the Hmeljna Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:15]] For-97 Decision taken. Andrija Škila to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for non-response to the violation of the Ukrainian state border and the capture of the GES. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:49]] For the 110. Decision taken. Vladimir Petrenko to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the unsatisfying activity of the officials of the Attorney-General’s Office in overseeing the bodies of knowledge and investigation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:17]] For 115 Decision taken. Gregory Omelchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminalization of officials and statesmen of Ukraine for the theft of state funds and the recalculation of their Arab company IMA, which financed members of the international terrorist organization Alkaid. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:55]] For 132 Decision taken. Michael Wolinz to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the formal treatment of requests and appeals made by the Ukrainian national deputy. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:20]] For-99 Decision taken. Victor Pinzenik to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the gravity and objectivity of investigating a criminal case involving the illegal dismissal of a shareholder of the Green Plain Association of the Arbusinian region of the Mikolai region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:53]] For 112 Decision taken. Stepan Bulba to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the investigation into the death of Major Kiblitsky’s militia and the legal assessment of the actions of police officers involved in the events. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:23]] For 116 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the reaction of the Prosecutor's Office of the Kirovograd region to the facts of violations of legislation in the despoiling of property of a collective agricultural enterprise called Petrovsky Svetłovodsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:54]] For-100 Decision taken. Valentina Seminouk to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the formal attitude of the Attorney General of Ukraine to the question of MPs. I'll bet you an MP's request. [[10:15:22]] For 114 Decision taken. Vladimir Onishuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the theft of collective property of society with limited responsibility for "Vesna" in the district of Odessa. I'm betting on sending a request. [[10:15:51]] For 101 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on a criminal offence involving the Director of the Long-Term School of the Drogobitsky district of Lviv district for the abuse of the position of duty while admitting his son to work. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:21]] For 105 Decision taken. Ivan Tomić to the Attorney General of Ukraine for attacks on the office of the Association of Farmers and Private Landowners of the Mikolai Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:49]] For 106 Decision taken. Stepan Cloud to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violations of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, and for the purpose of misappropriation of funds for the payment of additional pensions to victims. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:22]] For 133 Decision taken. Mikoli Tomenka to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the state of the provision of secondary education in Ukraine by textbooks for the current academic year. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:49]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Georgia Manchulenka to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the rationale for reforming the Covellian Military Hospital of the Volin Region and transferring the military sanatorium. Lviv district of the State Judicial Administration. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:20]] For-99 Decision taken. Alexander Dove to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the delay in the execution of court decisions regarding the withdrawal from the Antracitshachtobe company of debts from wages. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:48]] For 101 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies: Saints, Dobkin and others - only 6 national deputies to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the head of the Court of Appeal of Kiev, the head of the High Council of Justice for violating the principles of justice to the judge of the Court of Appeal of Kiev Danube. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:21]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Alexander Pecklesenka to the head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine on the withdrawal of fixed agricultural taxes from agricultural enterprises in the Guliapil district of Zaporez region due to the emergence of force majeure. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:56]] For-125 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the prosecutor of the Donetsk district for the inspection of the Donetsklis merger in connection with illegal logging. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:25]] For 190 Decision taken. Ivan Mihovic to the Head of the Zacarpathian District Council for Information on the Object, which is being built in the unique resort-recreational zone of Carpathian, near the village of Jedniew Wolowitz district on Zakarpatta. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:59]] For 131 Decision taken. Mikhail Radionova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reliability of statistics to the Ukrainian State. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:27]] For 101 Decision taken. Eugene Kirilchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the City Council of National Deputies, Courts and Prosecutors of the City are luts with regard to Lagunuk Alla Anatoliyovna, a mother of many children. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:59]] For 124 Decision taken. Anatolia Átovajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation that took place in the Friends' Farfort factory of the Donetsk Region of the Morning Company. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:29]] For-92 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? We voted on the MPs. We need to confirm the order of the day session and the schedule for this week. Therefore, the Conciliation Council suggests that these issues should be voted on from the outset and that they should be passed on to Government Day. I'll bet you an offer. May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on the proposal of the Conciliation Council, one minute, to review and vote today on the draft agenda for the fourth session. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:23:25]] For 294 Decision taken. Five minutes, please, now with motive. Please sign up. On the board, please. National Deputy Bunny, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to request and vote on the inclusion in section one of the draft law on the town of Sevastopol. These projects were implemented in March, reviewed by the Legal Offices, including the Government's draft, which assumes that they will be considered in the first place. I would like to support the deputies, my colleagues, that in 12 years of Statehood, we celebrated independence and we are beginning to change the Constitution. Today, a very important and necessary law has not been adopted for the town of Sevastopol, which will allow for the rationalization of the work of the executive organs today, to strengthen local self-government in the city. Based on the need and importance and development of the city as a city with special constitutional status, I would like to vote and support my proposal and my colleague Vernidoubov Ivan Vasiljevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u3	Yes. Please, Stepan Gavrish, Group of Democratic Initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u4	Please give the word to Alexander Markovich Bandur.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u5	Alexander Bandurka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u6	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! A group of people's deputies from the Kharkiv region proposed to include in the agenda a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the socio-economic development of the city of Kharkiv and on the occasion of the 350th anniversary of the establishment. In 2004, Kharkiv celebrated his 350th anniversary. Almost half of the deputies here are directly associated with Kharkiv — education, work, background, work, and activity. We ask that we include in the order of the day as decrees for the socio-economic development of the city of Kharkiv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u7	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u8	Thank you. Well, first of all, I would like to point out that five minutes is very little to discuss, and that's why I'm handing over the word to Alexander the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u9	Alexander Turchinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u10	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! On the Conciliation Board, our faction made a note, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and I am addressing you, that there are no laws on which the faction insists. Sadly, we do not see them again in the order of the day. I mean the following laws: draft decree, now, draft decree for parliamentary hearings, it's scheduled for this week, but not included in the agenda. [[No. 2394]] There may be a conflict, but you realize there's no daytime, and we put it on for a week. Next. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on General Military Duty and Military Service. [[Number 4119]] Next. Draft law on a special prosecutor and special investigator. [[No. 0928]] Next. Draft decree initiating the procedure for the removal of Kuchma from office of President of Ukraine. [[Number 4070]] And the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression, Mr. Lukyanenko, 2040. We insist on including these bills in the agenda. In addition, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, decree 3715 on arrangements for organizing the activities of the Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council is included in the agenda. We have not heard any reports of these temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council that we have created with you. And now there's a decision that about a third of these commissions or two thirds of them are proposing to cut. We don't know, our colleagues worked, didn't work, how we could cut down, shut down the boards without hearing the heads of these committees. Please consider our offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u11	Valentina Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u12	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. Please give the word to Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u13	Alexander Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, I realized that there were no objections to the proposals I made, and not just me, regarding this week's review of the draft Law on the Procedure for Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine. And yesterday at the Conciliation Council, and at the beginning, and later, many spoke about it. I would like to include this question for the week. And the Law on the Amendment of Article 98 of the Constitution regarding the Court of Auditors. I also made this offer yesterday, and I realized that there was no objection. Why are they out of order now? I'd like to ask you, too, yesterday this issue was discussed at the Conciliation Council regarding information from the head of the Interim Investigation Commission on the three-year anniversary of Gongadze's murder that he made information here in the hall. And that's why we have to predict all of this in our project for this week.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? People's deputies, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. The Regulatory Committee will be given the floor beyond that. I'm asking all the national deputies to take their seats because we're going to make decisions. Valentin Grigorovich Matviev is head of the Regulatory Committee, and we move on to the vote. I'm asking the deputies to come into the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. But I wanted to say that the delay was with the participation of the national MPs to make their proposals. And that's why I'm writing down six, and I want to pass on the word to Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, calm down. Nobody. Time, we took five minutes. Yesterday we discussed the matter. Make a decision. Please! That's not how we get to the end. I'm asking you to calm down. I was just giving the floor to Valentin Grigorovich as the head of the Regulatory Committee. Five minutes out, dear fellows! I can't break the rules. Calm down! I beg you, calm down, dear fellows! As you insist on five more minutes, please, I'm on the list for those who signed up. Calm down, please! We agreed: 5 minutes. Your right not to vote. I understand all this, but I can't jump through other people who signed up. Time's up. Valentin Grigorovich, calm down, please! Yeah, five minutes. Once again, please explain to those who have signed up. Let's take an hour -- and we'll talk about it, no questions asked. Dear colleagues, we will never get along like this. Let's take a vote. Please. Put a light on the board. I don't have anything, I don't have it. Keykovsky Yuri, please. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u18	Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine" faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. In view of the fact that the draft agenda for the daily session does not include a number of draft bills initiated by members of the Ukrainian People's Movement, I ask that I give the floor to my colleague, a deputy from the "Our Ukraine" faction, Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u19	Kenzier, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u20	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we are already looking at the draft agenda for the day session, and we see that we are going to get into a serious conflict. All our efforts, the Ukrainian People's Movement MPs' group, to include in the Supreme Council's consideration the issue of UN-OPA is bill 3589 and 1324. Next. The project adopted by the Supreme Council on the establishment of a parliamentary commission to review the work of the Lviv Tax Administration is not in the projects. And it is clear that our parliamentary group will definitely not maintain the agenda in general unless these issues are included in the list to be considered in this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u21	Please, Peter Cibenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u22	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Our faction, both officially and on the Conciliation Council, initiated the inclusion in the agenda of the daily N 1327 Bills, as well as 4,107 on supporting youth movement. In addition, Vladimir Mihajlovich, you referred to the Conciliation Council, we insisted yesterday at the Conciliation Council meeting to exclude from the order of the daily Bills No. 3643, because when it comes to prisoners in times of the Great Homeland War, it is the norm of a completely different law, not of victims of political repression, and when it comes to political repression, we automatically involve three exceptions to the parliamentary bill. Another bill number 4104 on famine in 1932-33. Dear colleagues! We've spent Government Day, we've had parliamentary hearings, if anyone wants to look at this problem every day, let's look at, let's see what's being done today to repeat that famine. So the faction insists that the last two issues be excluded from the agenda and the inclusion of the two preceding questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u23	Mikhail Volinec, militia of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u24	Please pass the word to Gregory Omelchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u25	Gregory Omelchenko, Julia Timoshenko's block faction
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u26	Honorable colleagues, respected heads of state and parliament. The interim commission of inquiry into the circumstances of the murder of Georgia Gongadze insists on a categorical form — the duty of Parliament, as provided for by the Rules, to hear information about the results of the investigation and the circumstances of the murder of Georgia Gongadze. We understand very well that there are two national deputies here in the session room, the President of Ukraine, who are afraid of this information, because the parliamentary rostrum will be called the names of the participants: four state officials and the political leaders of the state who organized the kidnapping of George Gongadze and will be called others. We ask and demand that the day-to-day information of the commission of inquiry on this matter be placed in order, and that my draft ruling on the initiation of the impeachment procedure of President Kuchma of Ukraine be registered. And I'm asking you to put it into the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u27	Dear colleague, before you ask, ask and beg, just read the draft agenda and read the general situation. Read better, and then you will be persistent. It's all in there. Please, Alexander Frost, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u28	I am grateful to have my word again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u29	You're down, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u30	I know. I'm on list eight. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I repeat: The draft Law on the Procedure for Amendments to the Constitution did not give rise to any objections on the basis of a July decree. We need to adopt this law, and yesterday, during the Conciliation Council meeting, it did not raise objections for anyone and the factions of the majority, including those, insisted on the same thing. We need to look at it this week. And the second question. The veto was imposed on the law that. The veto was already in the article. amending article 98 of the Constitution on the Court of Auditors. Since this project, which is supported by many deputies today, provides for an extension of the functions of the Court of Auditors and the President agrees, let us once again vote by simple majority this law, let the President sign it and let the Court of Auditors prepare for the next stage of its work take into account this possibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u31	Thank you. Alexandre Alexandrovich, this is about the order of the day session. And on the schedule of meetings, if there is no objection, we agreed on these two questions if they were ready for the committee. There are no questions, but it's the agenda of the day session, not the schedule of meetings. That's our second question. If there's no objection, the committees are ready, let's do it. I don't think there's gonna be any objections. We really talked about this yesterday. I just asked the committees to give their opinion on this. Are they ready or not? And that's it, no question. Dear National Deputies! I am voting on the proposal of the Conciliation Council to approve the order of the day of the 4th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. Please vote. [[10:38:21]] For 214 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for the approval of the 9-12 September session schedule, taking into account the proposals that have just been made regarding inclusion. Calm down, please! It's a meeting schedule! We'll be working on the daytime! Calm down! I'm voting for the approval of the 9-12 September 2003 schedule. Please vote. Taking into account Alexander Frost’s suggestions. Please vote. [[10:39:14]] For 283 The schedule for this week has been approved. Dear National Deputies! Please, Head of Management. Turn on the microphone, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u32	I'm asking you to turn the timer back. I'm asking you to return the timer to the beginning. I've got a broken chair, I don't have a microphone. I'm asking you to return the timer to the beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u33	Come on, you've got a minute, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u34	I'm asking you to return the timer to the beginning, I'm telling you again. I'm entitled to one minute. I don't have a microphone at work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u35	Well, please speak for one minute, come on. Turn on his timer, do what he wants, please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u36	So, Mr. Head, once again, I'm telling you that you gave a very nice speech on the first day and taught us as children in kindergarten, what it's like to be an MP and what it should be like to be a parliament. I'm sorry, I didn't knock here, I'm a deputy elected by the people, and I have every right to say what I want to do this week. No, you've put in a criminal procedure code this week that's shameful for Ukraine in the Stalin Hitler era. And you didn't give me the opportunity to tell me that you can't look at him this week, you didn't put in the prosecutor's report, you're reforming. Look at the status of the prosecutor under whom he's in charge? Who can bring a criminal case against the prosecutor today? You can remove the President in the order of impeachment and the MP, and the prosecutor won't because he doesn't want to come here. So I wanted to ask you why there is no report of the Attorney General to the agenda of this session, as required by the Constitution, and what was the decision of the Supreme Council? And why do you put in the Criminal Procedure Code that turns us away in Barry and Stalin's time, Jehova and so on?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u37	I'm in charge of the People's Deputies and we're moving on. This is the decision of the Conciliation Council. The decision of the Conciliation Board, I reiterate, the decision of the Conciliation Board, take a transcript and read. And read the Rules, it says that the Conciliation Council decides, recommends the MP Corps. We've made up our minds. Dear National Deputies, according to the calendar schedule for the fourth session today, for the first time at the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we are spending Government Day. Such an arrangement is proposed. Calm down, please. Make one report. Reporter - Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, 30 minutes for the report. The answers to the written and oral questions of the national deputies are 30 minutes. Committee head Ivan Fedorovich Tomic's report is 10 minutes. Presentations by the National Deputies in the discussion of these two issues are one hour. Final word for the reporter is five minutes. And the summation. There is no objection to such order of affairs raised on Government Day. One minute, calm down. You don't? Roger that. A workman, please, with a motive. Calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! I'm on behalf of the "Our Ukraine" faction. We urge that the day - to - day issues of the Conciliation Council be placed in order. In particular, the 4087 report of the Follow-up Commission on Mukachevo. Unfortunately, it was removed from the order of the day at all. Next. The report on Lviv, it's 4089. And last of all, 4133 about the creation of the Follower's Commission on the death of the head of the "Our Ukraine" District Deputies, John Gaudida. We insist on that. Without these questions, we will not vote for the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u39	Dear National Deputies! We didn't vote on the agenda. We will vote every day for each question or schedule of meetings for each week. With regard to the question on the report of the Follow-up Commission on Mukachevo. Such a decision has been made. I'd like the head of the deputy faction or the authority that was at the Conciliation Council to bring you to your knowledge, to distribute the report of the next commission that you led, Mr. Orobec, to be briefed by the deputies, the leaders of the parliamentary groups and the factions of the next Monday at the conciliatory council, to be determined on this matter. That was the decision. As for death, the citizen of Gaudida was killed. Today, I received information from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and I asked that the heads of MPs and factions be familiar with this information. After we get to know each other, we'll figure it out. You'll make suggestions, we'll make the right decisions. Please, John Kirilenko, about the question that we are about to discuss. We're not looking at the agenda right now, we didn't vote it out. We didn't vote on the agenda, we postponed. Kirilenko, please! No, no, Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u40	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! I have a question that concerns Government Day. Tomorrow the government is discussing the single economic space. A week from now, the President has to sign it along with President Putin of Russia. My colleague Rudzkowski and I have made a draft decree on Government Day for today that the government should report on these issues and provide information, because the whole of Ukraine knows that on this issue there is a contradiction in the government itself: some ministers are "for", others are "against", the vice-premier is definitely "for", the prime minister is not known as "for". Parliament and society should have information. You suggest, and we immediately voted that the information on this issue will be provided by the government until Friday, while the meeting will be tomorrow, Wednesday. It doesn't make sense. I insist that we return to this issue and now solve the problem of Government Day to consider the entire set of documents, agreements and the concept of creating a single economic space. This question is on the edge of a social discussion right now. And the Supreme Council should now decide on Government Day -- either after lunch or tomorrow, Wednesday. And in general, I call upon all the deputies who care about the fate of Ukraine to come to this meeting of the government tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u41	Dear colleagues! We also discussed this issue at the Conciliation Council. I think there's a good thing about it if the government looks at it and says a collective opinion instead of coming to the Supreme Council for a collective opinion. And then we're going to consider this, we're going to talk about it. The government has been asked to give us all the accounts, giving us complete information on the matter. When we get it, we have to look at it. We've already agreed to consider this. Yes, it really bothers the whole Ukrainian society, it bothers the people's deputies, but we have to approach it carefully not by jumping. I think let's go along with this proposal from the Conciliation Council. Let us look at the schedule of meetings for the situation in the agri-industrial complex. Two questions. We agreed that there would be a report on one of these two issues, and we would discuss them together. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, members of the government, representatives of the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, as well as representatives of the districts, was present to address this issue. The Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko has the floor for information on these issues. 30 minutes as agreed. Please, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u42	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished Victor Fedorovich, distinguished national deputies, members of the session! Because of many factors of a diverse nature, including natural agriculture as the basis for food security this year, the epicenter of public debate, the work of the authorities of all levels under the watchful eye of analysts and experts, politicians, and the media. So first of all today, we're taking stock of the government's work on stabilizing the food market. All available resources were mobilized for this, including administrative resources, including both administrative and financial, and certainly market-oriented, because the issue has both political and social importance. Briefly on the current situation in the field and the work of the government in implementing the Supreme Council decision on the first issue. This year, agriculture has experienced the most severe natural disaster of the past decade, 55 percent of the crops of winter wheat, and 97 percent of the main crops. Also, extremely difficult conditions arose in the spring when winter, in fact, immediately passed away in the summer. Despite this, bright crops were planted in an area of nearly 20 million hectares, 3 million more against last year. At the same time, almost 40 percent of the ditch was also resuscitated because of an unprecedented drought in May/June. Together with the regions, the structure of sown areas, expanded areas under corn, peas, millet, Greek, and sunflower were quickly adjusted. At the level of last year, crops, potatoes, and vegetables were planted. The area of corn crops this year accounts for nearly three and a half million hectares, including grain - 2.3, 800,000 more last year. The state of the sowers, you've seen for yourself, is satisfactory. So we can make a lot of improvements in both the grain and the feed balance. Sugar beets cover an area of 762,000 hectares [762,000 ha]. Their gross production is expected at 15 million tons above last year’s. There will also be a good harvest for the sunflower — over 3 million tons. It is difficult, with great difficulty, to cope with the difficult consequences of this year. The support of agriculture by the Supreme Council contributed greatly to their recovery, which allowed the State budget to allocate 270 million dollars to the cost of borrowing, 360 million dollars to agricultural producers for sown in the next year's crop, 20 million dollars to the formation of a national seed fund reserve, 32 million to the partial compensation for the cost of electricity used for agricultural crops. For its part, with such financial support, the government, along with the National Bank, is resolving the issue of increasing the size of village loans and the extension of loans by October next year. The social and economic situation is to avoid bankruptcy for almost 40 percent of the households. These are the grain regions of the south, the center and the east. During the 8 months of the current year, APC companies received 3.7 billion dollars of loans, including indemnities -- over 2.2 billion. That's 220 million dollars more than last year. At the same time, the financial situation of many farms, especially the south and the center, is complex. We're running out of credit, we're running out of hard work with banks, and we're going to solve this. The situation in animals is not easy. There are trends in the number of cattle and birds due to the lack of feed for the first half of the year. Today, the APC heads of the regions are present in the hall. We've made a clear deal with them, prices have ended badly, purchasing a favourable situation, stabilizing the field, stopping the baseless slaughter of cattle and birds. The Supreme Council was understanding the problems of animal production. This year, we have managed to channel 150 million dollars to support it to pay for cattle and pigs of high weight, and quality conditions, payments are coming up. At the same time, the amount of State support for the sector is being proposed by the government to continue to grow, as we will report to the Supreme Council on our budget proposals. An extremely responsible time had begun, the autumn was sown. Together with the regions, the structure of the winter wedge will be as refined as possible, the areas of winter grain crops will be expanded, tricycles will be applied, new seed - preparation technologies will be applied, and special costs will be allocated. The winter crops will be sown over 8 million acres [8 million ha]. Along with the adjuvants, we've solved the seed security issue and that's the main thing. And above all, the most affected by natural disasters is aid from other regions. So the seeds of the winter crops next year have more than 1.8 million tons, including the winter wheat of almost 1.5 million tons, of which 80 percent are air - conditioned. Agricultural enterprises are fueled by the month of September. World prices have also risen recently before September, and Russia’s price has increased considerably. The government found a way out and signed an agreement with oil companies to provide them with at least 860,000 tons of agricultural goods at a price of not more than 1,700 dollars per tonne. We now have about 50 percent of mineral fertilizers, seeds and plant protection products in the autumn of 80. For the Southern regions of the reserve fund, the government has contributed 7 million dollars to the purchase of plant growth regulators, which will contribute to the resilience of crops of winter crops. You can blame agriculture, you can criticize government, but you have 4.2 million hectares of steam -- that's objective, which is much more against last year. Given the extremely difficult year 2003 in the next year, we're not swinging at a record crop, but for 35-38 million tons of grain, everything is done. By now, over a million acres [over a million hectares] of osmium have actually been sown, and we expect to be able to dissipate almost completely by 1 October. With regard to the state of affairs in the food market, this is the second issue of the agenda. Today, it is clear that the situation has been resolved. The food market is saturated across all groups of goods, demand and supply are balanced, and there is no supply. The prices for bread of mass demand and sugar correspond to May 30th. As we promised, as harvesting becomes abundant and the market of grains stabilizes, as shown by the previous sums of these two too simple both for power and for society for months. First. In Ukraine, the food market still has too few and small - size market mechanisms. There is no integrated infrastructure, the distorted appearance is market trade. The developed market economy of similar price surges that we had at the end of June simply does not allow. We had both June and May and previous months, and even years in the government's food market, there were no restrictions on the enterprise's exports or imports or wholesale supplies or prices. Which groups of goods were in a June deficit when the increased demand was fully satisfied with the offer. But the prices came up speculatively, and somehow everyone was in a hurry to blame the government. The other one. Economic transformations that have unleashed the energy of private enterprise, and even in the light of recent harvest years, have created an illusion of market self-regulation, a dangerous belief that the creation of a country's food supply system can be solved with or without a minimum share of the state. As a result, it is almost complete that there has been no supply purchases in recent years, a semi-empty state chamber. The reason behind the banal is that the funds for these goals simply didn't go away. Third. The transformation of the governance system, its successive reform in the process of moving to the market, especially in such a sensitive area as food security, has not yet been completed. It is no longer possible to manage such complex farming as an agrarian market, but we are learning in a new way. Many things have to be done for the first time without having experience and a regulatory basis. So the logical and justifiable step was to develop for the active participation of national MPs and to adopt government decree No. 1150 of July 24, this year. Four. In power in a midsummer situation, price manoeuvres were too limited. We have been urged and urged not to interfere with the market for grain and bread, to let go of prices. That makes sense. But. We are not a sieve of Europe that can afford to ignore the price of the issue. In a country where a large proportion of the population is at a minimum of living, and about 60 percent of the citizens' monetary income goes to food products to put everything on the free-price market -- it's too risky. No adequate funds were made available in the social protection budget, and the discounted bread prices would quickly trigger a price explosion for other food groups. In particular, meat and milk. When we quickly settled the price situation with the bread, we refused to allow it, and our citizens did not extraly deposit some 400 million dollars out of their wallet. Note this inscription. In the fall of 2002, immediately after harvesting, when the price of food grain was lower than 400 dollars per tonne, the price of flour in many regions reached over 1,000 — 1,200 dollars at a cost of 600. You can see the rise you made on flours that made money on pain! Today, we are trying to convince ourselves that at the price of grain at nearly three times the price of flour released, bread will increase by a few percent. After the June groundless explosion, who's going to believe it today? We are also reprimanded by the fact that we had to start importing grain not now, but much earlier when it became clear that much of the crops had died. Look at this table. By early March, the government had already had a thorough and detailed analysis of the areas and stocks of grain, and the status of the winters, and special service - nature directives, to guide a number of areas to import food wheat. At the same time, we met with the leading traders and offered to abstain from exports by cutting off our contracts in the autumn, and these were added to almost a million more tons. As a result, wheat exports dropped five times in March compared to March last year, which was April 8, May, 50 times. Although a year, you know, the grain was similar. And given the transition balance, 7 million tons, the better. At the same time, the decline in exports started in March with a sharp increase in food grain imports, and the regions responded. Compared to the ferocious moon, it was driven six times as high, in April -- almost 30 times. Today, more than 750,000 tons of wheat and 230,000 tons of grain have been imported into Ukraine at the beginning of the year. Add to this half a year ago an intervention of flour from the Reserve, and we have an answer to the extent that the government's actions during this period were effective and timely. We're beginning to suspect that the government is doing everything to push business structures out of the market, and on its own, monopolistically arrange for the purchase of grain for import at budget costs, and they're already called in a few billion dollars. Accordingly, in the last two months, after the adoption of the relevant laws by the Supreme Council, more than 300,000 tons of food grain have been imported into Ukraine. I would like to point out that no amount of government budget has been spent on this. There are 400 million dollars that are prescribed by law for the purchase of grain in Ukraine, and no more than 10 percent have been used. Grain has been purchased abroad and will be purchased mainly for loans. The own costs of grain-processing enterprises and traders, and only a small portion of the amount of DAK's bread of Ukraine and the reserve at fixed prices and in interstate agreements. So the authorities didn't shut down the business as they tried to file it. The government, personally the Prime Minister, the authorities in place sat down with him at the negotiating table. It is difficult, not right away, but compromise can be achieved in most cases. The government of change has agreed on appropriate approaches and has found the best possible solutions for business. The situation of maintaining legislation in the food market is also under constant control by law enforcement and other supervisory authorities, and it is not in vain. Law violations have been imposed on nearly 3,000 businesses. A total of 1,400 officials were subjected to administrative charges. In general, the activities of the controlling authorities worked for the Ukrainian consumer. We understand, yes, there have been cuts in this work, and perhaps bends, but you've seen the flour, some have wanted to play with the power, to ignore both the state, and the interests of the people -- the authorities have not allowed it and will not allow it to continue. Gradually, there's order, there's excess costs, there's a careful analysis of the cost, there's the source of the economy. We will certainly solve the problem of providing the country with grain and bread for a new crop. All of you in these days have witnessed active foreign political activity on these issues both by the President and personally by the head of the government. And that makes sense, because the social protection of the population is the main component of the government's agenda, which was supported by Parliament in this room. And we fought and fought for everything that was written in it, not in words, but in action. This is also due to the fact that Ukraine, because of these circumstances, is at the centre of expectations from potential food importers who are logically seeking to resolve their financial interests at the expense of our not overly rich consumer. So the authorities publicly analyzed and accepted the June events, gave them a proper assessment, and found the right arguments for the answer. There was a fast-tracked demand. With new crops, imports and interventions, the market has gradually become saturated, prices have stabilized and prices have decreased, and other food market and economic sectors have not been affected negatively. In the short term, a market monitoring system is created, and food stabilization funds are formed and primarily grains, crumbs, butter. At a compromise level, internal purchasing prices are fixed. During this time, market analysis was carried out. We have the right projections. For the first time in years of independence, previous food balances have been developed in modern approaches. There are also proposals to improve the legal base and governance structure. They are considered and largely supported at the last government meeting for the active participation of national deputies. In view of this, it has narrowed down the description of the formation of food grain resources in regions. Volinska, Kyivska, Sumska, and Ternopil are 100 percent supplied with their own food grains. Crimea, Vinnicka, Žitomirska, Lvivska, Rivnska, Hmelnicka, a number of other areas have 60-70 percent self-sustainment. Generally speaking, this year’s crop produces an eight - month - long need for its own food grain. The government’s task, set before district management, is to form by mid - September a three - month supply of grain and to maintain such volumes by the end of the spring of the following year. A similar task by December will be carried out by the State Reserve. This means that by the beginning of the new year, the state will have a semiannual grain stabilization fund. To date, the vast majority of the areas with the task have succeeded. More than 1.8 million tons of food grain have already been stockpiled and declared. We have contracts that have been arranged for supply by the end of the year for one and a half million tons, and this work continues actively in these days. The relative favourable situation in the outer markets of grain, we understand, is going to be two or three months from now. During this time, we need to buy basic supplies. By December, about 2 million tons. So we offer to purchase 400 million dollars that we have today in the State Reserve, including not only in the internal market, but also in the external markets. This requires appropriate amendments to the law, and the government is ready to do so immediately. Second, how about the price of bread? Today, everyone understands that without additional supportive mechanisms, it is virtually impossible to refrain from rising the price of bread. To prejudice the likely negative effects, the government proposes to cancel the VAT payment to importers by August of the following year. This is the approach that the heads of the region, a number of national deputies, have offered us, and we are submitting to the Supreme Council an appropriate bill. And a number of deputies have already brought it in. His acceptance will allow us not to change the price of bread in mass use to a new crop, I emphasize. If this is not enough in some cases, local authorities have already done experience and municipal trade, as in Odessa, as well as damage to individual businesses. The government also proposes to continue the operation of zero duty rates on imported wheat grains and rye by the first June of the following year. This is if not all regions will be able to carry the necessary amount of grain by the new year. Regarding the forecast of the market, I want to point out that this year they are expected to produce up to 580 thousand. Ton, at last year's consumption of 432 thousand tons, we are fully secured for this product group. I remind you that the price surge started right in the Greek market. In Greek, we're going to have almost 2.5 times the last level, 1.7 times the wheat. The market is fully stocked with other types of grains — wheat, solid, manna, corn, and others. In line with the saturation of the consumer network, they are adjusted at a favourable level and prices. Yes, at the end of June, a piece of Greek was sold by 4.60 and above. By the end of September, the price is expected to be 3.3 pounds per kilogram. A similar trend is maintained in all kinds of domestic production. Macaroni production is expected at a level of 194 thousand. Tones that meet fully the well-founded needs of the internal market and consumption standards. By the end of this year, sugar markets can be crossed, and we expect a better crop of sugar beets. Sugar production will be about 1.6 million. tons. Add 380 thousand. A ton of imported cane product, and we already have wholesale prices below 2,000 today. The government’s 2370 ton of money, which ensures the profitability of the beet sugar complex as a whole. In order not to lose motivation in this extremely important area of the APC, the government is proposing to purchase about 100,000 tons of sugar in October -- by November to the state reserve. We have prepared a corresponding bill and amendments to existing legislation. Markets for sunflowers and oil are more stable and calm. About one and a half million tons of oil will be produced from this year’s harvest, about a million tons to export. The inner need is fully satisfied. The price of raw material, even if it's 17 percent per seed, is pretty good: from 850 to 950 dollars per tonne. More intensive work will be needed on the pet market. In 2003, 1 million,715,000 tons of meat, more than 13.4,000 tons of milk, and 13.4 million tons of milk will be produced. Such volumes correspond fully to plentiful demand, and the market will be saturated and stable. It's going to be harder in 2004. As I said earlier, in the 8 months of the current year, due to the shortage of first - year feeds and unfavourable prices of more than 8 months, most regions of Ukraine have seen a slight decline in the headship of cattle, pigs, but the headship of birds has increased. This has affected the reproduction of the head. You also need to consider more expensive food, especially grain, which is now on the winter floor. They will be able to produce almost the same quantities of animal production as they did in 2003. It's a controlled situation. It needs to be fixed. And we will do so without allowing further cuts in the head, especially in the womb, by making the most of the food in the autumn, by quickly financing the subsidies provided by the State, and they work very effectively, at the same time returning the funds to the farmers from the processors. It's all market action. Today, the purchase price of meat and milk is favorable, but the fight against smuggling of cheap and inefficient raw materials needs to be further intensified. At the beginning of the year, we succeeded. Let us continue this experience. With regard to purchasing and consumer prices, as well as the quality of meat-milk products, the scope of possible imports, the relevant draft laws are discussed in the Supreme Council. And the government asks them to consider them as urgent. I will also point out that in the meat and milk market, a number of manufacturing, manufacturing, and commercial enterprises have literally been abandoned in recent years by an excessive number of intermediaries who simply hide their profits and launder their funds. Here, too, we will have to make arrangements as well as in the grain and flour market. Next. Given the strained feed balance, which allows 80 percent to cover the animal needs of rough and juicy feeds, that's last year's level. For the first time in a century, it may be possible to provide a branch with confectionery, but for this purpose it is necessary to temporarily restrict the export of feed grains from Ukraine, primarily barley and corn. The relevant legislative initiative has already been discussed on the Committee of the Supreme Council. There are different visions and approaches, and the action is certainly not popular, and most are not supported. We understand that and we start negotiations with exporters. We want to make arrangements for the export of grain feed not to exceed 1 million tons. Instead, the government has proposed such a scheme, and the export of feed should be equal to the import of food grain. Fourth. In order to finally prevent any disturbance in the food market, the government, through the 2004 budget, proposes to launch government procurements for strategic foods: grain, meat, individual dairy products, sugar, groats and oil. It will be carried out exclusively within the stability fund and on market-transparent conditions and competitive principles. In fact, for the first time in years, the state will be marketed by both an effective buyer and a strong player. The government intends to purchase at least 1.5 million tons of grain in 2004. A considerable amount of meat, cream butter, dried milk and canned milk, 50,000 tons of grains, 100,000 tons of sugar. In principle, farmers’ friendly prices and volumes will have a positive impact on the market’s situation, and thus on the profitability and attractiveness of agriculture. Other market participants are also encouraged to consider such policies, especially with price. It's that maybe we've seen it this year. In 2002, barley was sold after harvest for 280-340 dollars per tonne, with traders paying 700 for it. Nothing special about the world barley market has happened, so there are reserves to find effective paths. Once again, the measures taken by the government in the summer were temporary, they were caused by a crisis, and they were also calculated for the duration of the crisis. Today we are going back to system work, to market mechanisms, because the food market needs to develop on scientifically based principles and through transparent rules of the game to create which are the primary responsibility both of the government and of the Supreme Council together. At the last meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with the participation of many national deputies, a draft regulation on measures for the stable functioning of the agricultural and food market, which is proposed to significantly improve the structure of the national food market. Establish new institutional structures for the food market, food and processing industry, and establish appropriate offices in the regions. To implement the President’s decree of 8 August 2002, it is envisaged to create a special agency for the development of agrarian markets, or agrarian funds, as proposed by the deputies, which will be responsible for the formation of state resources, financial and commercial interventions, collateral transactions, and other state support programmes for the agricultural sector. In this way all available mechanisms will be concentrated and one institution that will ensure both coordination and transparency and control. Similar structures, by the way, exist in all countries that are either our strategic partners or our neighbors. As part of enhancing the competitiveness of our production and export potential, we must harmonize national standards with international requirements as soon as possible. This work is not yet enough, so at least 200 standards per year are being developed and implemented. It also proposes that the concept of the development of the Ukrainian food market be approved by 2011. In accordance with the President's decree, we will create a separate body of state control over the quality of agricultural produce, which is extremely relevant today, with its network in place. In order to form a legislative base for agrarian policy, the government has drafted a draft Ukrainian law on the basic principles of Ukrainian State agricultural policy. In the near future, it will be submitted to the Supreme Council. Today, the agrarian bloc of government, together with the members of the Supreme Council, is actively working to improve the agricultural market base of a bill to support the production and development of the agricultural market. He will be brought into this room as soon as possible. People's deputies please support their colleagues. In conclusion, the authorities endured the June test. We've been through it with you. Experience was gained, and basic strategic orientations were quickly developed. The situation is stable and controlled, and it will be until a new crop. So now it's all about being alone and not losing your pace, actively implementing what we've learned too hard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u43	The report is complete. Let us turn to questions and answers. I'm asking you to sign up for a question. So let's make this happen, your honorary colleagues, that we're going to queue: one question in writing, which was previously sent by committees, MPs and factions; one from you directly from the session room. Do you have a deal? Please, on the board. Kosovo, National Deputy, faction of Ukraine. Mikhail Kosov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u44	Mikhailo Kosov, faction of our Ukraine, the Reforms and Order Party. Dear John Grigorovich! You have completed your report on very encouraging positive notes, and this is encouraging. And here's a publication in our newspaper of the Supreme Council, Voice of Ukraine, August 5, which says that we've spent 3.5 billion dollars on our pockets for this failure in the food market. Does it agree with whether you have any analytical material on, in fact, these colossal losses suffered by the Ukrainian people for this policy? And then these laws that you've made clear at the end are very good, they are. But as early as October 1990, we passed the Rural Development Priority Act, authored by Alexander Alexander Moroz. It seems to me that we should go back to this law and just develop its basic positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u45	Dear colleague, I am grateful for the first and most up - to - date issue. I'll start with his other half. The Law on Social Development of the Village and Agriculture in the Economy of the State, in fact, adopted 10 years ago, worked effectively in the first stages. Today, under the new conditions, the law, which provides for the promotion of the reformed agriculture by 2004, ends its operation on January 1. And today, together, to deputize all factions, I also have to thank the representatives of your faction, who also initiated this law, including Teryochina and Assadchev, and many others. Today, more than ten national deputies are under this bill, who know this on the problems of the APC and its current state. This law will be fundamental, complex. And I'm very much asking, in the first reading, he's accepted, he's now in second reading, there's a discussion going on. We suggest that we consider it as soon as possible in this room. And it's going to be that compromise document that will set up all the political forces in the room and allow us to address both the issues of the APC and give us a boost to development. Regarding prices and losses. There are, of course, some loss of population. But another point of view: if we didn't completely intervene and release these prices every month, we counted both the Ministry of Economics, and whatever the Statecomstat did these calculations. And an expert evaluation was made, we'd lose at least 300 million dollars a month, our citizens. Because the discounted price of bread would immediately provoke as the basic product of the release of milk-meat products and other segments of the food market. That's why we went through tough, unpopular, temporary measures. Ordered in this area. Of course, relative to absolute order, there is still a long way to go. But we had to do it. And we figured out, the economy of citizens in two months is 400 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u46	Ivan Grigorovich, I ask you very briefly to answer the questions that many want. A letter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u47	Thank you. A written question by the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. What conclusions have been reached by the government regarding the critical situation, and who have been specifically responsible? By a decision of the government, 1150, you know, a number of national deputies took part in a government meeting, several heads of district government administrations, you know, almost 20 people of the heads of district government administrations, at the central level of the price inspection, the Antimonopoly Committee, the Ministry of Agrarian Politics received serious personal punishment until they were released. Personal responsibility has been imposed today by the decision of the government on the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister and the heads of state administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u48	Gennady Rudenko, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u49	Thank you. Please pass the word to Suhma Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u50	Dry Jaroslav, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear John Grigorovich, Jaroslav Suhi, faction of SDPU, town of Zaporozhye. The Cabin in a difficult situation proved that it can work quickly and highly, it is clear and obvious. But with a view to avoiding further similar headship and shortsightedness in the agricultural sector, I want to ask you three brief questions. First. You're a well-known lobbyist and a fan of taking away a solar moment, a.s. loading processing enterprises abroad and making money to the grediers. Your position today? The other one. Why the government has given birth to a lucrative field of birds. Is it inappropriate to set aside these funds for other purposes? And the third. By what principle does the government finance the selective work of animals? There are cases where farms that don't do selective activities get the money that they do -- they don't get the money. Are you familiar with such experiences, and how do you react? Three questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u52	Mr. Jaroslav, thank you for the very urgent questions raised. I'll give you a quick answer. 17 percent sunflower duty. The government, even when it joins the World Trade Organization, today demands that this indicator be lifted. That's right. But the government doesn't do that. And I'm not particularly a big lobbyist until the price of the sunflower is favourable. Today, it is favorable. We made a deal with the solar generators, with the processors that it's going to be. Suddenly it's going to fall below 500, it's going to be abuse of processors. And then I'm going to stand here on this stand and ask you to cancel the duty. The second question. With regard to the bird’s field. The question is questionable. We've been working on this issue with the representative of your faction, Eugene Seagal, he's an extremely high-level expert, he's giving very serious advice to the government and the agrarian bloc. Today, when we expect a slight decline in other meat sectors, for objective reasons only avianism can benefit us. And we must be motivated in this rapidly developing field. Eugene Yakovitch today has called for a special meeting, we will gather all the producers of this product and identify and support tribal work, what you are absolutely asking for, and the subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u53	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u54	I'm also going to ask an up-to-date question, and I'm going to ask it because it's set by the faction of the Company. "When will the Government balance the food and feed resources of the grain for the period 2003-2004?" Dear colleagues, as we agreed yesterday on a conciliatory council, the government's forecast estimates have been made, I've delivered them to some extent in this room in which I could, of course, speak publicly here. Any time, and especially, it is desirable to do so after the completion of the harvest campaign, when we finally know that we have sugar that we have in our feed cultures, and the force that we've gathered half of the area in corn -- the main feed culture, and by a number of other indicators -- vegetables and so on, we'll be ready in any form that the Supreme Council proposes, it might be a closed meeting of the government in any form to consider this issue and to consult openly with the MPs that we can continue to maintain in the food market with stable control, without bursts of curiosity and unforeseeable consequences.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u55	Paul Matvienko, European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u56	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy of Verevsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u57	Ivan Grigoryevich, I have two specific questions for you. The first question: I did not understand a little from your statement, however, what position the Government was taking, whether it would initiate or support a bill to restrict exports of cereals, in particular barley and maize, because it had a very strong impact on the internal market and on price policies in the internal market, is the first question. The second question was, today, the Government's proposals that VAT should be abolished had been said. Please tell me, what will those importers who have already imported imported wheat and have already paid VAT, and tomorrow's importers who will import will be exempt from VAT? How will these issues be addressed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u58	First of all, I want to thank Andrey for being in this system that we're talking about today, the government's work is taking the most active part not only in the development of legislation, but it's one of the leading traders in Ukraine, which is linked at too competitive prices of grain, especially for the Poltava region for its district. As for the questions, a brief answer. The draft decree of the Supreme Council on the prohibition of duties on exports of barley and maize reads: "Do not recommend to the government to make such proposals." We've had a thorough discussion at the agrarian committee meeting on these issues, the government's arguments: we are now able to provide a percentage of the animals with grain. If the corn crop is expected, predicted, what we have, and now we've done a recalculation on barley, it's 700,000 tons larger. We figured out that about a million tons of exports could happen. We met with traders, you're a witness, and we agreed that yes, the barley currently in motion with the prospect of being exported from Ukraine about 700,000 tons. We agree with that position, and the limits of government will not be initiated. We will accept the decision of the Supreme Council. Regarding VAT, when importing grain, VAT is cancelled. The relevant bill has already been drafted. I'm running out of time because I'm being held back all the time so that I don't talk too much, the draft law says, and how to be today's importers who are going to cross the borders with their products, and how to pay the VAT to those who paid it off at the border. This will be stipulated in the law. You and I will consider this law together and write it so that it is convenient for all. The main thing is a favourable price in the market in order to make it impossible to increase the price of bread and pasta. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u59	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u60	The written question of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. "What measures are being taken by the government for local government administrations and statistical authorities to prevent falsification of crop harvest in 2003, how did this happen last year?".. Dear colleagues, the question is also of great importance to Ukraine. In fact, we may have been suspicious of the adjectives of the crop, taking into account the methods that were used to account for the harvest of previous years. And there are no grounds for suspicion. So for today, what steps are being taken? A joint order issued by the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and the State Commission on 9 June 2003 to improve the production of plant production has been issued in Minista on July 1, 2003. What does he predict? It is extended to agricultural enterprises that provide operational monthly statistical reporting on the establishment of a minimum criterion: 100 hectares of agricultural land. The other one. Since August 2003, additional sampling tests have been carried out by the authorities of the State of Statistics in small enterprises on the basis of which calculations of production volumes have been carried out. An improved organization and methodology to conduct a sample survey of their agricultural activities. Questions about the stock of grain, flour, and pomegranates are also included in this survey. And it's also very important. In the current year, a new monthly statistical observation of the number one grain form, namely, the report on the availability and arrival of grain crops in processing and grain-saving enterprises, is also very important because the next question concerns the Socialist faction, which is the problem. A collection of data has been started on the actual presence of grain directly in agricultural enterprises, which we have not done before. Starting in June, monthly monitoring of indices and average prices for the implementation of grains with agriculture and the population has been initiated. With a view to improving the reliability of data on the production of grain, statistics in September will be tested in all regions of Ukraine for the reliability of the reporting of crop production and the implementation of the grain by enterprises, including law enforcement authorities, and still needs to be completed. Thank you. The question of high weight is indeed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u61	Andrew School, instead of Stephen Cloud, will ask questions. Please, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear reporter! First. I would like to point out that, of course, there were many interesting thesis in the report. But I'm being approached by my voters and I'm being told that there's a problem like going back to Soviet times, driving a carnivorous carnage, forcing the sale of 300,400 dollars a tonne of agricultural grain producers. With an import quota of 140, 145 dollars. So it's practically three, four times more. Why is that? I realize that there are extraordinary circumstances, but you can't twist your hands to your own manufacturer, you can't force him to do what he doesn't have to do, there's nothing to do. I just don't think there's a lot of crops going on right now, and Lvivishka, in particular, is going to force them to, to enrich them with grain for a penny. If there is a need for our grain, it should go at the same price as imported and there can be no preference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u63	Mr. Andrew, you're absolutely right: morally and economically. This is the case, and the government gave them a clear shot, and we met several times with the leaders of the respective units, who are taking care of the subject and the government, in its decision 11.50, banned such actions. The question has a slightly different dimension. If we're in a Belgrade peasant who's next to Ukraine and Kharkiv district buying 110 dollars, that's about 600 dollars, then we're logically asked: across the border, you pay a lot more, so you pay us more. You see, then this price question is translated into flour and the price of flour at the price of bread. The second problem on the other side. Actually, it shouldn't be. Last year, 280 dollars a ton, and this year, a thousand dollars a year. There are no such distortions in any economy with developed agriculture, so the government's main activity next year -- we have to make these price fluctuations minimally possible, the sinusoid should be smooth. And that means that the government and I together must be strong players in this market. What does that mean? What does it mean to be a strong and effective player?)? We have to buy so much from the market that no one else can do for us, even when we enter into a conspiracy, and then everyone adapts to our price. The optimal price per year, whether it's fertile or not, is about a hundred dollars, and it's the normal price of a direct producer. But every year we're proposing in the next year's budget these numbers are already written: enough money to make government pricing policy effective, and together with the Supreme Council. So the question is, once again, it shows that market mechanisms need to be worked out and the state outside the game should not remain. Thank you. It's a written question. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine: "According to the balance of food resources, what will be the volume of consumption of bread and bread products per capita between 2003 and 2004?".. We have to say that we even have to export. import a lot of grain, we're going to get out of the highest consumption rates. In particular, 129,8 kilograms per capita. The following should be said in this regard. We have 120 percent overwhelming, let's say, food consumption. On the contrary, only 60 percent of the livestock market. But we realize that this is not a one - time thing. People consume especially those that are at the limit of the subsistence minimum, of course they consume, first of all, bread-boiled products, pasta and corruption. So our policy is going to be strong in this segment even in this unfavourable year, and we've written our balance sheets just by getting out of the maximum consumption rate of 129.8. In previous years, there were 124, and there were 131. So, Alexandre Alexandrovich, we're going to get out of this, and that's what we're going to do. [[I understand your question.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u64	Sergey Doguncs, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u65	Dear John Grigorovich, I have come to understand that it is more important for you to have the interests of grain traders and banks than the interests of agriculture and the Ukrainian people. Now for the questions. Widely advertised credit aid to farms has been lost on the way to the farms. In addition, the unforeseeable cost of fuel, and the soybean is already on fire, and it soon ends when it comes to optimal terms. I came from the village a week ago and there's nothing of your credit. And the second question. Credits are being paid off by banks and other credit institutions. farms, taking away the young cattle and even the grains left that were this year. So unless you can cut the root or the oak on which you cut it. Hillbilly, where are we sitting?Oh, my God! What is it?Oh, my God! And that you can oppose in this regard in this boundless and judicial power, which automatically solves this issue in the interests of creditors, and the executive branch of Minust, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u67	I thank you for the most keen nature of the question. And you're always so hard on me and you're putting them on, and in a lot of ways, they're absolutely fair. Your reprimand that I work for traders and banks is exactly what the party tells me is that I don't let myself open and I don't let myself work properly. But it's just like a lineup. Regarding the substance of the question asked. Yes, there are agro-industrial leaders in all regions. And they ask me questions, and together with them and with the banks, we're very tense and we're working very hard during this period to make the main thing happen and to provide a seed company and a collection complex, and that's not enough, today we need an additional 700 million just credit resources that are not enough. And the main thing is that we took, I said in the report, 3.7 billion credits. For 40 percent of Ukraine’s farms, these loans are not simply problematic, they are insurmountable, they cannot be recovered. So the Supreme Council's budget committee did absolutely justice by supporting the government, and the lion's share of the money that was allocated by the Supreme Council was aimed at preserving the relationship between banks and agri-economics. If we hadn't done that, and then these millions for an instant meal, it would have been autumn, and that would have been what you're saying right now, essentially for the center, for the south, partly for the east -- it would have been total and mass bankruptcy, we'd have counted, for 40 percent of the farms, it's grain regions. We basically saved them. But it's very hard, you know that. The most complex issue today in agrarian politics is financial credit policy, especially its credit component. I'm convinced that as soon as you get out, you're already in session mode with the deputies and the National Bank, we need to consider this issue at a special meeting in the government. Yeah, it's a tough year, and the banks need to understand a multiple stop. And yet they're trying to reverse whatever minimal possibility there is. But we don't want to lose our agrarian potential this difficult year. I thank you for the keenness of the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u68	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u69	Questions are also raised by the factions of the Socialist Party. "What forms of public intervention into the market were produced during the period of the price of the fever for bread and bread products? What is the effectiveness of these measures?".. Dear colleagues, you are witnesses: from March, late March, and especially active-April, May, and tense in June after the price jump, July, and even August, and the beginning of September - the government continues to intervene with the flour from the state reserve. For regions to have stable prices of bread - making products, from 10 percent, and especially where the crop is strained, where the harvest is lost, and today it is purchased at high prices, up to 20 percent in the dusty weight of flour, which comes from the flour - making industry to bake bread, is a cheap flour of the national reserve. We're finishing interventions with the September moon. It's all self-absorbed. In October he'll be gone if the Supreme Council's good will, with a zero VAT rate, is 20 percent more expensive. That's exactly the price I'm calling that at this very price, the cost of the bread-breeding products that are in monitoring, and that's a socially significant type of bread. In the regions, it weighs between 60 and 80 percent. We're going to try this experiment: 20 percent of VAT doesn't pay to the central budget, on the spot, if there's any problems all of a sudden, it's the local government. The state budget has already said its place, whether it's a floury grant or a separate shop, the payment of their damages - it's all going to depend on market and price developments. In general, the West is completely marketed, the West has endured trials. The intervention is done, we have provided up to this day about 300,000 tons of cheap grain from the state reserve. That's the quantity, to be exact, 294,000 tons. This is the normal course of action, and it should be similar to both sugar and oil, and meat, all over. That's why the proposals: in the next year's budget, to put this amount of money into the budget, to buy in peasants at such a motivating price, so that we're absolutely at peace with any natural disasters, the price of the consumer market must be stable and predictable under such conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u70	Alexander Moroz, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u71	Dear John Grigorovich! You're optimistic, and that's probably good. But there is little hope for your optimism. You didn't say the main reason for the current state of grain in agriculture, particularly the destruction of the village's manufacturing system by the efforts of the government. Those suggestions you're making right now. funds and so on, these are proposals that we made more than 10 years ago, and the government has been moving away from them all the time, referring to a free market that regulates everything. Now we see that it's no longer adjustable, and it's going to take at least 10 years to apply the production system. Well, if the government's going to take this matter seriously, at least six or eight years is going to have to put it all on. I'm not going to ask you any questions right now, because I have a lot of prices, imports, at the prices that peasants are buying. I have only one question: Last year, they were not adjectives, but they were adjectives. And the government authorities, the prosecutor's office, and so on. Today, the same people have organized a breeding ground: they are calling again the farmers, at a minimum, into the local regional grain fund. When will this stop? You can't do that. It's just human abuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u72	Alexander Alexanderovich, thank you, too, for the principle of question-making. Indeed, you can see that after the action taken by the new government, they are adequate for the situation that has taken place today. Yeah, well, we're smart as a back number, and that's what it is. It really is. We're learning on the way, I said that in the report. This is a government report, this is an integrated document today. And the proposals that have been made today about the stabilisation fund, about the volume, about the corresponding budget funding -- yes, these are lessons, we call it today the lessons of this food, short term, but still a crisis. Whether it's a crisis or a crisis. Evaluation, that's the point. So there's a lot I agree with what you're saying about action. These measures are being taken today. Unfortunately, this short period of time had to be overrun with an administrative lever. But with regard to the reproach that is being exterminated, it is extorted, I have already said, the government in its decision 1150 publicly before the peasants, in front of the consumers, in front of the people, that it is not the author of that policy, and we will not be the authors of that policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u73	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u74	The question of the People's Government MP group is about the introduction of innovative technologies in domestic agriculture. The question is of high importance. It's really a future without an innovative development model, without the investment programs of the powerful that bring about scientific achievements today, it's hard to compete and have a growth. In order to create conditions for innovation, the public procurement mechanism is used to develop the most important new technologies in the development of the APC. In the current year, the Ministry is implementing 35 innovation contracts for the development of new technologies in the area of the APC and 8 contracts for state-owned science and technology programmes. What programs are these? What do they have to do with this? First. Scientific and technical preparation of co-operational production of modern high-product grain harvesters of increased efficiency and reliability. Ukraine should have its modern grain harvester. Scientific and technological preparation and development of highly productive ploughs of increased stability, creation of new varieties, development of technologies, development of domestic production of high-quality seed resources, production of genotypes of farm animals, development of technologies, development of domestic production, expansion of production and movement of high-quality tribal resources, the program is called "Plemres resources in animal production." Within the framework of state science and technology programmes: new technologies for the production, conservation and processing of agricultural products and new generation technology for agricultural production are being carried out by 28 research and research and technological works. Since 2004, 17 more jobs have been planned. Thank you for the timely question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u75	Ludmila Suprun, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u76	Ludmila Suprun, faction of the People's Democratic Party. Dear John Grigorovich, we were somewhat surprised that in your report you did not mention one of the main reasons for the situation in the agrarian market, in the grain market. And first of all, this is the financial crisis in 1999, when the dollar rate changed in terms of the bracelet, and it actually devalued twice. But this was destroyed over the next few years by a huge crop of produce in Ukraine. Now we don't have a price rise, we have another situation: the price just gets its level. If we're going to use lower-price techniques now, we're going to be contributing to the looting of peasants, farmers. What actions does the government plan to take to clarify this situation in society, first, and secondly, to make this situation impossible in the future? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u77	Dear Ludmila Pavlovna, we have met with you many times on this subject, we have about the same vision, indeed, and the situation that has taken place with the devaluation of the bracelet of its time, and agriculture has since begun to subsidize other sectors of the national economy and consumer. And today we're not addressing the issue of income standards for advanced capital with a positive value in agriculture, including through the consumer price adjustment mechanism. We're going to hit the same rakes every time -- either at the expense of the consumer or at the expense of the peasant. So in this respect, you're absolutely right. In that basic law that we are currently working with you, these mechanisms are written down: insurance mechanisms, financial and credit policy mechanisms that are cheaper than credit resources, make them more accessible, price policy mechanisms at the expense of government and state intervention, mortgage price purchase policies, mortgage purchases, and a number of other measures that are now under way, including you in the basic law, the government supports and we need to adopt this law as quickly as possible in order for it to have an impact on the budgetary process. So we agreed that we would be meeting tomorrow on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u78	Time is up, please sit down, Ivan Grigorovich. John Fedorovich Tomic, Head of the Committee, has the floor for the report. We agreed for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u79	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, Victor Fedorovich, National MPs, are invited. For the third time in a row in the current year, this high rostrum is being provided to address agrarian issues. The situation in the agro-industry complex in the 1990s, and especially in the last two years, negative trends, which are clearly seen, have become stable. They are convinced that an integrated, scientifically based progressive reform of the agricultural sector is needed, not a loud report on the transformed agricultural sector. Thus, the problem of guaranteeing the country’s food security has become quite practical. There can be no denying that there was no attempt on the part of the legislative and executive authorities to remove the agrarian sphere from the crisis, especially at the legislative level. Only at a previous session of the Supreme Council, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations considered 56 bills adopted by the Supreme Council of 27. These include land protection, land administration, meat and meat products, the order in which land is allocated to land owners, and other tax laws, fixed taxes on added value. From the initiative of the Head of the Supreme Council, separate actions were carried out in the Supreme Council, where it was agreed: Bills were tabled by the government, the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, and the Committee brought to the attention of the National Deputies. However, the expected results have not been achieved because the vast majority of these and other legislative and regulatory provisions have not been fully implemented or implemented. As a result, the country has seen a decline in the consumption of basic foods. Today in Ukraine consumption is much lower than even in our neighbours, Poland, the Czech Republic, and even Russia. The daily intake of one person’s diet in kilocalories is: Poland - 3,400, Czech Republic - 3,200, Russia - 2,900 at 2,500 in Ukraine. The complexity of 2003, 2004 is primarily due to the fact that grain stocks, especially food supplies, will be much smaller. Overall, agricultural production is expected to decrease by 30 percent compared to the corresponding period of last year, with an optimistic estimate of 22 million tons of grain in the current year, with wheat of up to 4 million tons. A similar state of affairs in a beetroot, sugar complex, we are talking about protecting a domestic producer, and every year we are increasing the import of sugar at 2.1 million tons in the current year, 865 thousand tons of sugar is expected to be produced from 535 thousand tons of sugar made from cane. Because the volume of own production is projected to be up to 1.6 million tons. But the worst situation in the field of animal life. The decline in all categories of cattle, pigs, and birds has continued steadily. On August 1, compared with the corresponding period last year, the reduction accounted for 10 percent of the cattle. Its productivity is declining. The suckling of cow milk during this period has dropped to 110 kilograms last year, and it's 1,331 kilograms -- it's a concentrated measure of the quality of its state of effectiveness. Food security ratios accounted for 0.44 meat and meat products in 2002. Milk and milk products are 0.52; fish and fish products are 0.34; fruit and berries are only 0.22. These figures show the country’s significant import dependence on the main food groups. The decline in production rates is accompanied by a prolonged deterioration in the financial situation of agricultural enterprises. The number of farm losses of 34 percent in 2000 is now 54 percent in 2002. In 2003, there was a change in the profitability of agricultural enterprises. The debt for agricultural wages increased by 45 million dollars in 6 months. Although the average wage in agriculture is modest, it is 182 bracelets, or 2.3 times lower than the average in the economy as a whole. Dear National Deputies! As we can see, the situation in the agricultural sector remains complex. What conclusions and suggestions need to be made today in order to significantly improve the situation in the Ukrainian village? First of all, we need to ensure full implementation of all the legislation on agrarian issues that are currently in force. There is a need for harmonized legislation that needs to be adopted urgently. The other one. We should not view weather conditions as a tragedy that gives rise to panic. It should be kept in mind that agricultural production usually requires preparation for nonfertilized crops after harvesting years, so difficulties are caused by some unthinkable actions of executive power. Yes, prolonged administrative action in the grain market, restrictions on the movement of grain streams lead to price differences even in the middle of the country. Yes, on August 31, 2003, the flour mixed bread cost 84 copies in Kiev, while in Herson it was December 1st. Vermesel - from 1.09 grevens in Chernigiv region to 2.6 in Lviv. Administrative price restrictions did not provide both internal and external saturation of the grain market at the same time. The Agrarian and Land Relations Committee of the Supreme Council opposes restrictions on grain exports, especially corn, barley, and sunflower. The introduction of 40 euros per tonne of duty may result in the loss of one and a half billion dollars for agricultural producers, which is extremely unacceptable in such a situation. This situation was immediately addressed by private investment this year. As a mirror, they reflect what results are being put into the crop infrastructure, which has been reduced by 2000 twice. Although the situation in the grain market was similar in 2000 and the results of the Yushchenk government were different. Agrarian market infrastructure is needed, not in quantity, but in real agricultural products, in the creation and functioning of the agricultural market, in the reduction of the influence of intermediate structures and monopolies. The irrigated land remains unattended, with the actual area shrinking from two million hectares to 700,000 acres and being ineffectively used. At the same time, the allocated cost of energy for consumption, for the field of agriculture from 32 million to agricultural enterprises, was only 7, which means that at least 2 million tons of grain could be added to the irrigated land this year and more. Science estimates that more than 50 percent of the grain has been lost from technological distortions, and only 40 percent have been lost to difficult climate conditions this year. And if you add the possibilities of grilling, which was only sown on statistical reports. So in general, during the difficult climate year of 2003, wafer production could reach 60 million tons. However, the most important and crucial for providing both food security for Ukraine and the development of the Ukrainian village’s APC is the creation of economic inter-branch mechanisms. Because of price distortions, agriculture loses more than 8 million annually. The bracelet, the cost of the circulation, the material and technical base, the loss of professional personnel, the destruction of the social sphere in the countryside. An example of the tightening of inter-branch relations today is the raising of fuel-oil prices, electricity, which is additionally needed only at the time of autumn-field work by almost 400 million. The bracelets are in these very difficult climatic conditions. This is at a time when Ukraine’s food security is established the following year. Dear National Deputies! The state of affairs in the agricultural sector is not simple. The latest government decisions testify to the situation. It can only be corrected for the better by joint action of the government and the parliament. The foundation for this is now needed during the 2004 State Budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u80	Yes, thank you, Ivan Fedorovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, we'll take a 30-minute break, won't we? A break of 30 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u81	We invite the distinguished national deputies to the session hall, and we will continue our work. We agreed that within an hour we would discuss issues related to the food market and the state of the APC. Please explain to the deputies who have signed up for the presentation. Dear colleagues! Anatoly Rahansky asks for his word because he is leaving for PARE first. Can I have a word with you? Rahansky Anatoly Warfolomyovich, a member of the Industrial, Entrepreneur and Labour Ukraine faction. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u82	Anatoly Rahansky, "Trudova Ukraine", Epatorian constituency. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, Victor Fedorovich, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, honourable deputies, invited! We've just heard a report by the Deputy Prime Minister detailing the situation in Ukraine's agri-industrial complex. This situation is remarkable in many ways. However, the effects of the natural nature that has taken away our crops can be said to be minimised. Ukraine’s greed is at stake. Fortunately, this massive price collapse did not occur. The whole campaign's taking turns. And we would be unobjective if we didn't recognize that the agrarian sector of the government acted adequately under these extraordinary conditions. People say: "There's no harm without good." Nature has given us a serious lesson this year. It is clear to all that our biggest mistake was the policy of refusing to hold on to the main types of agricultural production. Bread is a strategic product for any state that determines its level of national security. For free, all the highly developed countries that we often look at hold the minimum strategic supply of food grains and seeds at the level of one-and-a-half-a-half needs. And that kind of policy is completely justified. We must draw conclusions from this hard lesson and still return to the system of procurement, the system of food balances, to the systems of clear statistical reporting of all operators, regardless of their forms of ownership. This is essential for an objective picture of the state of things in the agrarian economy. Our faction supports the government’s initiative to put sufficient funding into the budget next year for public procurement, financial and commercial interventions, collateral transactions in grain, oil, sugar, meat, and dairy markets in order to create strategic reserves of the most important food. Finally, the government has to start providing financial support to the producers through the lending mechanism. The regulatory functions of the State in the oil market must also be restored. The most important issue is social and social issues in the countryside. Our faction will insist on increased funding in the following year for the construction of social objects. To conclude, Ukraine, in preparing for the World Trade Organization’s accession, should pay attention to the development of standards for the production of APCs according to the international requirements of the World Trade Organization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u83	Yes, thank you, too. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine, prepare for Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u84	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mr. Head, our noble Ukrainian people! Of course, the problem that is being considered today has hit everything today. I don't think Ivan Grigorovich has survived. Officials have endured this increase, and the people have not endured it. Even today, this increase has hit people by rising fuel prices. The diesel fuel in individual areas of the Gitomir region rose to two grand. 20 kop. What is it? Where's the Prime Minister? Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Is there an area of Zitomir that is no longer in Ukraine? Two grand. 20 kop. they're demanding from the peasants today. How could that be? Where, then, is the government? I'd like to feel better today, Prime Minister. Why? Because it's a complex issue and it's only possible to put it in the agrarian vice-premier or the APC minister. That's why it's a complex question. I'd like to ask the government: please tell us today that 8-10 million is clearly set. Tones were attributed last year, including by governors. Name those governors! If you don't call them, I'm initiating the creation of a parliamentary inquiry committee to name everyone named 10 million. Tons that have sucked, from eight to ten million tons. You promised to do this to society! You didn't do it! Who was in your way? Who prevented you from calling? Who today deceived all the legislators that we were to make decisions? Who today prevents you from getting compensation for the loans you get in the country, by the way, I'll tell you a secret, in the Zaporozhye area, under 30 percent, in Crimea under 26, in Luhansk under 28 percent, that's at the refinancing rate of 9. It's such a profit coming out of the banks! They're using the situation! And there's no transparency in funding. Today, Ivan Grigorovich here admitted that, yes, there was administrative pressure when they demanded 750 dollars to buy, but they sent taxes to everyone else, the police and everyone else to give our people and at that time they were buying foreign grain. I would like to draw attention to the fact that new technologies are virtually not involved. But there are our Odessa designs, the high technology of such a scientific and manufacturing complex called the South, the increase in drought and frostiness of plants, the reduction of the period of phenophase plants and the general terms of crop yield. All of this can be done and done. And, at the same time, I haven't heard this positive today, and I'm not charging it with our Ukrainian citizens yet. Unfortunately, I would like to point out that this government has allowed an increase in debt, as shown in the table you gave us, to 432 million dollars. So, dear friends, I would like us to take steps that would oblige the government not to allow the situation to continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u85	Thank you. Mikola Shershun, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Please. Get ready for Borzih.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u86	Mikola Shershun, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Dear Head, honourable deputies, members of the government. The heated and boisterous discussions in this room and beyond about the situation in the food market in Ukraine may have convinced everyone of the need for a clear and consistent policy in this area. For the village, these are, first of all, extensive technical refurbishment, a clear credit system, improved pricing policies, systemic financial support, a well-formed market infrastructure and a balanced government order. After a while, I want to raise one, but it's a very important question. Without solving it, we again, in the following year, can, as they say, not let God speak about the food security of the State. Compared with 1990, the complex agricultural technology park declined by a third. Eighty-six percent of the tractors and combines available with excess depreciation. Agrarians lack 200,000 tractors, 46,000 harvesters, and an enormous amount of other equipment. The production of equipment for the village of 326 state-owned enterprises was discontinued. The capacity of domestic grain harvesters and tractors is limited to 10 percent. All businesses require immediate technical and technological re-arms. There's a Ministry of Industrial Policy that doesn't have any policy to restore industrial production to agricultural technology. There is no coherent program of action for all interested ministries and departments. Ukraine's Act "Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinery for the Agricultural Complex" is ignored at all levels, and this is where the mechanisms for State support for the development of the sector have been envisaged, aimed at costing technology and increasing its quality and production volumes. Based on the importance and importance of this problem, the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party requires the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, to solve this acute problem as soon as possible, and considers it necessary to resolve the issue of annual investments from the State Budget for the development of agricultural machinery worth at least 900 million dollars, including 240 million dollars for 30 percent compensation for the value of sophisticated agricultural technology. Concentrate all possible state investments to restore the work of 2 or 3 promising enterprises to the production of harvesting equipment for tractors and diesel, power plants. Speed up the adoption of the Agriculture Basic Act on Support for Production and Development of the Agricultural Product Market as soon as possible to consider implementing the Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinery for the Agro-industry Complex on the government's next day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u87	Thank you, you too. Alexander Borzih. The faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine, to prepare Alexander Masenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u88	Ukraine's agrarian party. Dear National Deputies! Members of the government and invited! At the beginning of the spring, the Cabinet of Ministers had actually activated certain government mechanisms to support farmers. And it basically allowed you to do spring-field work and prepare for harvesting. In the future, however, the government has not extended the necessary measures to improve agricultural affairs. First of all, there was an underestimation of the situation in the grain market and the possible negative effects on the country as a result of crop undernutrition, which could be predicted early in the summer. And we all know what has led to the country's discussion of the grain crisis, and this is not the fault of the implementation of the reform of the APC initiated by the President of Ukraine, but the calculations of the implementing bodies are appropriate. Those measures, which I think have been taken in an aboriginal manner to improve the situation of grain markets, especially in the part of the strengthening of administrative management by executives and the departure from market conditions, have not justified themselves. On the contrary, this has led to a decrease in imports of grain, created instability in the food market, and further complicated the economic financial situation in the farms. I think it's economically and politically unreasonable when the government makes strict regulation of food prices, when farmers are forced to sell grain to form regional resources at the price of 600 dollars per tonne at a time when it is accessible for 900-1000 dollars. When government officials are asked to import duties on grain exports and to create the duty conditions for importing pizza meat. In fact, the channels for peasants are overlapped to provide real additional funds to solve their painful problems. Why are we so afraid of rising prices for agricultural products? At the same time, we observe calmly when prices of fuel-oil materials, electricity and other materials have risen for the village just recently. The purchase prices for milk, the meat, have fallen considerably while they remain stable in stores. Why don't we protest that the cost of half a liter of water is equal to the value of the same amount of milk? I think it's just a crime right now to lower agricultural prices. Unfortunately, the support and protection of the peasants' interests is not clear, active, principled position of our senior leaders of the agro-industry bloc in the government. We need to protect the interests of agrarians more energetically and uncompromisingly. I'll be honest: it hurts for the agrarian sector. How much village can be a donor to other sectors? In fact, the State is exploiting the peasant instead of providing him with sustained financial support, as is done worldwide. Finally, we need a systematic forecast approach to the development of the agricultural sector so that we don't go back every year to solving the country's fire-fighting problems and fear the threat of food danger. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u89	Alexander Masenko, the Communist faction, please. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u90	Dear colleagues! It may not be entirely ethical, but with regard to the speech by the Rahansky MP, I would like to say something like this, to note that from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe it may be shown that we have everything in the village. But if you go there to the ground, to the village, that's not what happens. Weather, and the weather, indeed, has made adjustments to agricultural production, but human factors play an important role each year in addressing agricultural production. And on the subject of today's government day, I would like to say that the laws are being passed and the course of that reform of agricultural production is not being chosen, and now we all see and we can make an assessment, as the classics say, only when you realize what we've lost. And now that we see what we've lost, we see that we're going in the wrong direction. And the relevant laws are then adopted by the Supreme Council not in the interests of agricultural producers, and we see those laws being passed, even though that evil Earth Code in Havrish was adopted in the office and we all know, and there are living witnesses and participants in the adoption of that Earth Code and other laws. And they're going out to the rostrum, and they're also applauding, and they're crying, and crocodiles are crying, and they're blaming someone for what happened in Ukraine. You are the ones who have chosen such a course; those who have voted in favour of such laws! And you don't need anyone here. Blame someone! I wanted to speak to you personally, Victor Fedorovich. You didn't know, but you went through my land, my home territory, where I was born and where I grew up. And when I arrived, people tell me, they say, "There's a kalkada, and before that we passed and they said, "This is bread, sell croissant goods at reduced prices, and if you can't, shut up, don't trade today." That's how we did it. And today, 30 copies of bread are sold on a bracelet. I'm officially telling you, let's sit down and go, I'll show you where it's done. Gregory Ivanovich Petrovsky, in his day as he came to our lands, still remembers because he went and talked to working people and those who work on earth, who grow bread. That's how you're going to make these trips, not drive around like that, that people haven't seen who went there, then I think it's going to be good. I have a lot to say, but time is running out, and I'd like to end by saying one thing: believe me, members of the government and the Cabinet of Ministers, which is a village that's already completely destroyed, completely destroyed, let's go there and watch. I think that here, on occasion, to mention the definition of terminology, which is the Russian word for "superuniversity," and to conclude, they say, "superiority is when in wartime is in the back with the wives of the frontalists and they're looking for themselves on the reward lists. That's what these reformers and these scientists are doing right now, just looking at themselves and looking for themselves on the reward lists. Let us not look for ourselves in the lists of those who have been rewarded, but to go to the village, to see what is done there, and to help those who have been led by our laws and our reforms to a pitiable existence.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u91	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, please prepare Catherine Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u92	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština After listening to the report and today’s presentations, the conclusion is that in the chorus that sang praises is virtually unheard of today. Today, we don't hear those patriots in the paws that screamed that Ukraine was feeding the entire Soviet Union, that we're separating, that we're sleeping all over Europe with grain, and then we're sleeping Europe with our people who are becoming slaves there, because they can't make ends meet in their own country. And we also buy grain in Russia and Kazakhstan at the price that would be convenient to them, which Nazarbaev said. In Ukraine’s social development, food security was handled and controlled by the state, and this did not cause food crises. Has not the leadership of the State known since the fall of 2002 that high - quality grain has been exported at no cost from Ukraine, and only the adjectives remain? Unless the leadership in the fields and at the top knew that thousands of acres of winter wheat under the crop of 2003 had not been sown, in the spring it was managed to hide the fraud by cheating on the harsh winter. If this is true, then the price on a market day of such leadership and authority! Does it take much to keep in mind that the basic condition for maintaining food security is the guaranteed supply of seed and insurance grains in the national reserve? Where's the reserve? when the state has not maintained a grain balance and the grain market has not been regulated for several years? And so the adjectives made the situation both in the fields and in the state more difficult. Aware of the fact that once again the authorities ’ comments and assurances are made that the technology for solving agricultural and food problems is being worked out in an area that will ensure stability in the food market? In fact, the grain is not available, and the bread items are empty, and the prices of bread and bread - making products are not falling, and there is no hope, for this year’s low - quality grain, most of which will only be used for grain. The president and the government are somehow afraid to call the perpetrators of the bread hysteria. In the end, the people must know the perpetrators of the situation, and they are the ones who brought about the 1991 coup, the ones who brutally and cynically drowned the economic and land relations of the Soviet authorities in the country. These are the hajdewic and sabres that the President is presenting before they receive the state premiums, those who have eliminated the debt credit, taxation and farming, those who hate the whole Soviet, socialist and criminal anti-national regime. They are the ones who contribute to the extinction of the Ukrainian people. This, in short, is the present - day authority that does not have the right to exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u93	The word is given by Catherine Timofievna Vashtuk, director of the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Prepare the Tooth of Mikhail Vasilovich. I want to say again, dear colleagues, I'm going on record, and I've got it all written down. I'm asking you to calm down, Your Honor, I don't have any other suggestions for this. Can I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! Today's hearing is a great test not only for our government, but also for our Parliament. The government has proved that if there is a will, that there is a desire and understanding of the problem, it can be fought effectively. We have seen the results of such effective work today. But this is just the first step. And for a short period of time, he stabilized the situation. In order for the agricultural sector to develop effectively, it is necessary to do so, beginning with the completion of land reform, namely the issuance of acts free of charge to farmers to the financial, credit, social support of the agricultural sector. We gave the peasant land and gave nothing more. The product market is unformed, the price parity is missing, the credit security is only in the embryo. If we leave the villager again in this fiscal year with the budget that we have so far, this year's situation will be repeated on a regular basis. And there will really be a basis for blaming reforms. It is not reform that is to blame, but that they are free from entanglement. So our faction requires that we compensate the peasants for taking away the premium on the added value tax. Today we're going to pay 32 percent of the salary to the Pension Fund -- all of that together is 3 billion. That's right. They must be removed from the budget of a poor village. Therefore, the budget for the following year should be compensated, namely, by reaching prices. The other one. Credit policies have been handled correctly, but they have stabilized on short-term credit insurance. Can you buy a combine or a tractor for a loan of 8-9 months? This must be long - term lending. Third moment. There must be risk insurance in the countryside. If the state does not participate, namely, pay part of the cost of the insurance, the peasants will not always receive compensation for the loss, and we are in the risk zone. And the last. The social development of the village is of no interest to anyone today. That position of government, when the Mineconomy divides everything and eliminates 30 percent of the compulsory allocations to the capital social development of the village, cannot continue. We won't vote for the budget if 30 percent of the cappellas aren't in the country. 1200 schools, 80 percent readiness. And the last. I support the position of those national MPs who have focused the attention of the government in today's oil market situation. There's an obvious oil concoction. Victor Fedorovich! You've shown me how you know how to work on price restraints in the agrarian market, do it on oil! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u95	Thank you. Mikhailo Vasilovich Zubec, Democratic Initiatives MP, member of the group instead of Stepan Bogdanović Gavrish. Prepare Alexia Kozachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u96	Dear Head! Dear Victor Fedorovich! Dear National Deputies! In July of this year, the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences held successive general meetings, which was caused by an extraordinary situation in agriculture. Under a complex of unfavourable weather conditions for crop formation, we left by 1928. For the last time, in 1928, 85 percent of wheat was transplanted. The negative phenomena that have been particularly strong in agriculture in the current year are due not only to natural climate problems, but to a large extent to organisational and economic factors. Yes, agricultural prices have lost 57 billion dollars in recent years, more than our country’s annual budget. Unfortunately, this trend continues now. The estimates show that, from January to April 2003, losses amounted to about 220 million, and the village's debt at the beginning of 2003 is almost 80 percent of the value of goods. The cost of basic agricultural resources has decreased by nearly 70 billion, and investment has decreased 13 times in recent years. Thus, the native agricultural producer remained virtually unarmed or with primitive means of production in the fight against extreme phenomena of nature. There is a claim that the owner of the information belongs to the world. Unfortunately, we have something wrong. The information is either missing or unavailable or far from reliable. Yes, according to the previous year, more than 9 million tons of grain have been produced in the population, or almost a quarter of the total grain produced in Ukraine as a whole. And the yield in these farms is 7-8 centrifuge higher than in large companies. You know, it's a very simplified technology, it's a primitive piece of grain storage that doesn't exist. In 2001-2002, there was no absolute crop production in Ukraine. It was relative, caused by a reduction in the head, resulting in a reduction in the cost of grain for feeding purposes. In 1990, we used 28 million tons of grain to feed cattle, less than half last year. The overcrowding in 2002 in grain exports was not economically justified because the increase in production that was accepted for processing was not caused by the increase in agro-technical cultivation, but by extremely favourable weather conditions, which we considered to be a trend. Under such conditions, it would be appropriate to form state reserves, not to export huge amounts of grain. According to the State Department, 12 million tons were exported from Ukraine in 2002 and more than 10 million tons were exported in July-April 2002-2003. And you know what happened in July of this year, even though there is no bread, and all the troubles are gone. In the grain sector, there is a problem with the quality of the grain. We're leaving for the grain border.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u98	More than half of the sixth grade, and barley is all out of the class, and from here you can think about what it is like we're trading and how much we're making. No time, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u99	Alexy Kozachenko, National Authority MP, prepare for Nemirowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u100	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Dear members of the government! After hearing information from the Cabinet of Ministers about the situation in the country in Ukraine’s food market. I'd like to make the following statement. The problems that have arisen in agriculture as a result of the loss of winter crops have in fact triggered the dynamic development of the agricultural crisis. A crisis that has healed in recent years. As early as last year, there was a massive outflow of investments from the field, investments that came to the countryside after the beginning of the agrarian reform, believing that the state could quickly and effectively implement reforms in the agrarian sector. This year, in my personal opinion, the outflow of investment from the village increased significantly. In general, the situation is worsening because most households are unable to manage effectively as a result of financial losses. Only in the example of the Odessa region can we say that the damage to the peasants amounted to more than 470 million dollars. The farmer is in a situation where time and sowing and plowing and fuel prices, fertilizers, and other things needed for his work are growing. And prices are low even if they don't look very good. Loans for sowing, especially against the backdrop of unreturned and unprolonged loans in 2002-2003, are not satisfactory. In addition to standard fuel and fertilizer, most farmers need to buy seeds that are very expensive from deficits. The situation has led to the fact that once again under the head of cattle, and this can be seen without statistics, there is sufficient evidence of a significant drop in meat prices. By the way, price cuts are also triggered by the continued flow of meat trafficking. The unsatisfying situation of borrowing can be seen again in the example of the Odessa region. According to the loans received to offset the interest rate, the area needs 9.8 million dollars. In fact, the area has been shown to have a marked limit of 4.4 million dollars. Because of the adverse weather conditions of 2002-2003, most of the farms that have received loans in the current year will not be able to settle with commercial banks at the same time. In line with the joint order of Minagroprompolitics and Minfin, 9.1 million dollars were allocated for partial payment of deferred loans in 2003. [[No.247,446 of July 10]] Banks consider the possibility of prolonging part of the loans received, but only after the end of its credit agreement. In view of the situation in rural production, it is necessary to introduce changes to the above-mentioned order to contract these loans for the extension of September-August 2003 irrespective of the duration of the loan agreement. This year has shown that the issue of the introduction of an agricultural crop insurance mechanism has become very acute. Article 15 of the Ukrainian Act of 7 June "On Promoting the Development of Agriculture Up to 204" provides partial compensation for insurance payments. But unfortunately, in the relevant State Budget Act 2003, these funds were not foreseen. I think our practice shows that we are simply obliged to do so in 2004. What about the food grain situation? Much has been said about these problems and the unworked mechanism of mortgage purchases and the actual lack of effective reporting. And there's one more thing I'd like to say. Whatever the difficult situation with food grains, we need to avoid absurdity, we need to put an end to shameful practices in recent months when local administrations are forced to pay for loans that no one is quick to lend to them for their own reasons. This cannot be a function of a separate administration and will only lead to chaos.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u101	Thank you. Olese Nemirowski, faction of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u102	The government is supposed to be the buyer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u103	Prepare Zweigilski. Nemirowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u104	Respectable people's deputies and members of the Government! The situation on the grain market this year is very tempting to deal with by administrative means, by banning exports and encouraging the import of grain. That seems to be the way our Government is going to address the food problem. But this is the simplest and I would say a very simplified method that is not acceptable for a large developed economy and a sufficiently strong agricultural sector if it is trying to move on to market management. How unfavourable. There were no conditions for the production of cereals in the country, and there would always be individual farms that had the opportunity and the need to export their products. And to ban exports by will decisions, what is now actually being done, means to return to the central and command-based administrative economies. The export ban or uncertainty of the grain export situation will be particularly affected by the farmer, who is now in dire need of means to prepare the seed, to acquire the fuel, to repay the loans. There's something about exports, too. If there is a shortage of food grain, the crops of fodder grain, barley, corn are quite appropriate. The ban on the export of grains, which, among other things, can be seen as a sign of a real food crisis with all its consequences, is an attempt to correct past errors through direct policy intervention. This is easier, easier and more visible. But the grain problem has at least two sides. If buyers need cheap bread, sellers, or producers, need to cover their costs. However, it is not possible to sell feed grain at economically sound prices on the domestic market and not externally when imposing a duty of Euro50-60 per tonne. And the manufacturer is trapped, that is, in a conscious loser situation that inevitably leads to bankruptcy. It should also be borne in mind that the introduction of an export duty would reduce the possible exports by half. Where did you get the currency to import it? After all, almost half a billion dollars is needed to purchase the missing three million tons of grain. It is clear that exports need to be increased in order to obtain them. In addition, the question arises: How can you cover the difference between grain and bread in the internal market? And it's going to be about 500 million bracelets. In my view, VAT for three million tonnes of imported grain intended to cover its deficit cannot be a source of subsidies for the poor. I would also like to point out that recently there has been a significant and unjustified increase in bird meat, which is higher than the increase in feed prices. There is a need for rapid intervention here, on the one hand, to make this diet product and the most important source of full animal protein inaccessible to the main population. On the other hand, it will cause a strong flow of smuggled, unquality meat. Thus, as a conclusion, I propose. First. There is an urgent need for a positive decision on the export of feed grain, and for a clear definition of export conditions. Second. VAT on imported grain is used as a source of subsidies to cover the differences between grain prices and bread prices for the poor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u105	Thank you. Yufim Zviagilski, faction of the Ukrainian Regions, prepare Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u106	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished Victor Fedorovic, distinguished members of the people. The price crisis had struck the government first. The unwarranted journey of fuel, oil and lubricants, especially solar panels, by 25-30 per cent, is the second strike, but already against the Prime Minister. Who benefits from this? Not the voters, not the villagers. The deep causes of the agrarian sector's problems have not occurred today, they have long been known. The price imbalance between agriculture and industry, the uncivilized market, when the profit from the increase in agricultural prices falls short of producers, expensive loans, cabling conditions for the supply of fuel, seeds and fertilizers. The list may be continued. Second. With the lowest wages in the country, the village's labourers are uncompetitive because of the high cost and cost of services. Electricity tariffs have been increasing ever since July of last year. This year they are higher than last year's by 19-24 per cent. The village needs reasonable concessional electricity prices and low-cost loans. It harms the village and the departmental approaches. The prices of services of various structures should be reduced and even abolished. Because of high prices, the economy sometimes fails to verify the similarity of seeds, does not produce product certificates, does not produce veterinary activities. The sale price of seed wheat from Gosserve this year is 2.5-3 times higher than the purchase price, 1540 bracelets without transport costs. Such a policy must be judged. Poor State control over land use reduces fertility, the lack of budgetary funding. Technical work in the absence of funds makes them unusable at all. Various standards in domestic and external markets for food grain reduce the income of producers, allowing for the profit of exporters. The public selection system needs to be restored, as imports of elite varieties and crops are too expensive. Fourth. The State must support the village. This is a global practice. The Cabinet took the first step to take a decision to partially compensate for the value of domestic agriculture. But we should not wait for crises, but we should work daily on agriculture. And the last. Life gave birth to a new form of land-based management: industrial enterprises rent land, produce agrarian products with advanced technology and technology, produce the population at prices lower than in commercial structures, build, pay taxes and their efficiency above average. But these voluntary investors need support. The arrivals to the APC must be exempt from taxes, and the import of high-production equipment, plant protection products and others, which we do not produce in Ukraine, should be exempted from duties and VAT. Next. The share of unbidden profits from processing should be determined by the actual weight of its own products. Such enterprises would play a significant role in ensuring the country's food security. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u107	Thank you. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. Prepare Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u108	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! From the government report today, we have heard that the situation has been controlled, prices have fallen by the end of May this year. Promises and assurances are as much as ever, and in the countryside the situation remains as it used to be. So far, the government and all the executive verticals have contributed to the mistreatment of the peasants. Why is the government not talking about the proposals of the Ukrainian Company to return prices to the January 2003 level? Or a moratorium on rising food prices until the minimum wage and pensions reach a minimum of living? Probably inconvenient. Where is the food and feed balance? Why is it not given to the deputies at least the previous one? Distrust of the People’s Chosen Ones? I had the opportunity to get to know the balance sheet project because I was invited to a government meeting and made a few conclusions. First. Balance is only possible in a highly organized system. We have no effective agricultural policy in agriculture -- chaos. Only specialization and concentration will contribute to the efficiency of agricultural production. There is no governance structure, there is no chain between the Ministry and the village, there is no strong opposition to power to the creation of large companies and enterprises, and the role of government administrations is special. Let the peasants themselves choose the form of agricultural production. Who will protect the producers from the state? Tax collectors use machines to collect even new forms of agriculture, limited livestock, technology, and other food belonging to farmers. Same with loans, same with different government trust funds. Nobody realizes that farmers pay only one fixed agricultural tax. What about the earth? According to official data, about 5 million acres [5 million ha] have not been sown this year. Even with low yields -- one tonne of hectares -- it's 5 million tons of bread, it shouldn't be purchased for imports. Here's a balance sheet assessment from the point of view of the organization of the agricultural system. Second, where did the data on the expected bread resources in Kabmin come from? There are two sources: the State and the Minagrarian Politics. Both are unreliable, because last year we know that some people say 8-10, and who 12 tons of grains are attributed. We know what he's doing, the same thing he's doing in the vertical direction of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy. And third, in the balance sheet, the consumption rate, which was approved by the government in 2000 -- 166 kilograms per year -- is clearly low, most of the population consumes only bread, potatoes, vegetables and milk. That's from a structural point of view. It should also be added that bread, like other foods, is not in government but in private hands. Therefore, the conclusion is: Agrarian policy needs to be substantially adjusted. Even the president, while staying in the Russian Federation for days, admitted that the increase in the food market was caused not only by weather conditions but also by the estimates of previous governments. Or just the previous ones? The Communist faction keeps talking about these calculations and making proposals. We need to listen, as the government has listened, for example, to our proposal for a government order for basic products and for the purchase of bread abroad, not for intermediaries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u109	Anatoly Frost, Communist faction. Get ready for Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u110	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Communist faction, Zaporez region. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, reverend Victor Fedorovich, distinguished colleagues, members of the government. Thankfully, today the situation in the agrarian complex has begun to excite everyone. After two years of success, agriculture has been hit by natural phenomena that few people today remember. I'm going to show you a situation that happened in the agri-industrial complex just in our Zaporozhye district. Under the harvest of 2003, 487.2 acres [487.2 ha] of grains were planted in Zaporezí region. The winter grain plan under satisfactory cultivation conditions provided a gross collection of 1 million 218 thousand tons, or 62 percent of the grains provided by the 2003 Grain of Zaporozhye. The difficult weather conditions in the winter of 2003 resulted in the death of 54 percent of the winter crops. The loss of crops of winter crops is estimated at 398 million dollars. Also, spring drought killed 50,000 acres [50,000 ha] of crops of winter crops. The spring drought also affected the animal industry. There is a decline in the population of all types of agricultural animals, both in agriculture and in the private sector. Agricultural businesses have found themselves in a difficult financial situation. Budget funding for the agro-industry complex is not properly provided according to the budget schedule, which has a negative impact on the situation in the field. Yes, to date Zaporozhye region has not received 668,000,663 dollars from the State budget for partial compensation for the cost of complex agricultural techniques of domestic production. In view of the above, please identify the Zaporozhye area as an area in which exceptional natural and climatic conditions in agriculture have arisen, and provide the Zaporozhye region with targeted financial assistance from the State Budget. In fact, this was the subject of a district session where district council deputies voted in favour of solving the problem. I think the decision of the session is in the government, too, in the Cabinet of Ministers. Also in order to assist agricultural producers, paragraph 2 of paragraph 1 of the Ukrainian Ministry of Agriculture Ordinance of 19 June 2003 No. 293 on the direction of the use of State budget funds to deal with the effects of natural disasters in agriculture and the development of the agricultural market and to formulate it as follows: "Financing the financial support of the Agro-industry complex of all forms of ownership and management through the system of costing their loans in the autumn of 2002-2003."and then after the text. The next moment. To see and make calculations on corn here today was language, in the sunflower, you have to take a flexible approach to the sunflower. Third. Restructuring debts on fixed agricultural taxes of past debts to the state. the fund for the use of the hydrotechnics by 31.12.2005. And reduce by 50 percent the electricity tariff, the electricity used by the company. I beg you, Your Honor. [[Ending]] Victor Fedorovich, the villagers are asking today for the village to focus on all the government's work. It is a shame that today Ukraine, which has fed the world, if not half the world's 1.6th planet today goes with an outstretched hand, give it bread. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u111	Alexander Baranowski. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, to prepare for the Nightingale.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u112	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Baranowski. In today's newspaper newspaper "The Village News," I tried to analyze in my article the situation that happened in the food market and choosing the title of the article, I couldn't find anything else to call it: "The robbery, by government order or government, "cleanses the storerooms of grainmakers, denying them any prospect for the future." I want to start with the strong methods that today's price is forming, as has been said today, in our grainmakers. 750 dollars when the market is at a price of 1,000 dollars. Our farmers lost, the village lost about 300 million. And that's what the government is going to tell us today that they're complaining about the village's problems. The Vice Prime Minister said they had nothing to do with this. And let me remind you of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers that you recommend to create so-called task forces in order of the food market and started to create: from the prosecutor, the chief of the police, the chief of the tax service. So-called "trimmings of fire," as people have called them, are already in the area. And we're saying that we have nothing to do with it. Or tell us, please, today you're offering us the creation of an agrarian fund agency. Thus, it is now known to members that this agency is formed under a specific person or under a specific group of individuals. Why, then, did we even give up a reservation that did the same thing? Who is going to make the grain today, that is to say, who is going to direct the money. Today, my previous colleagues, speaking out, said that this was the result of all the free implementation of reforms, and I agree with them. But what I'd like to say is, dear colleagues, that it's on your quota that those you've recommended to the agrarian sector are managing. So if you make such an assessment, you might suggest that they resign today after the consequences of their activities. And where in the agrarian sector today and in the lobbying of financial interests, not the agrarian sector. I can give examples of the government dropping bills that seem to support our manufacturer, and then these government officials go to veto. At the same time, I emphasize -- these are government bills. One more. I can't help but stifle the hops. The government has given appropriate support: one percent of beer and alcoholic beverages are available to support the producer of winemaking, gardening, and hops. Money in junk is being stolen! They can't reach the manufacturer! Moreover, the public organization today distributes these funds, shares the budget. We, the MPs of Žitomirščina, have turned to the agrarian sector, to the government to put order in this. No answers were received. Clearly, no one is interested. And the last. Taking advantage of the opportunity, we are talking about food security today. And I would like another word about the safety of the Ukrainian people in general. You know, for days, a Ukrainian soldier shot a man in Iraq. And we have to wait for something that's not right. I think it would be good, Victor Fedorovich, to have this soldier respond to Iraq immediately, because this is both a threat to his life and his family as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u113	Thank you. Victor Slauta, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Prepare Olga Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u114	Slauta, Donetsk district. The faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine. A Respectable Meeting! We reviewed statistics last century in the agricultural sector of the economy. In total, twice or three times, there was a situation where an ostrich grain wedge and a yoke were not born either. To sow the earth from autumn, to resow it in spring, to suffer such losses is a nightmare! And you won't envy the government here. We need to make amends, not just be responsible for our sins. The justice of May’s council was calm, but it worked hard to stabilize the food market. Practically three grains in zero stocks did not allow for breakages in the supply of bread. It's a damn ferret. Who's doing it? For example, in the Donetsk and Luhansk region, these problems occur year after year: both in crops and not in crops. As such areas were once called grants. Each year, 300,400 tons of food grain and half a million feeds are to be purchased. This was done calmly, and no one thought to fix the prices. The only thing that was done by power was a clear forecast, clear control of the grain market, reliable partners, professionalism of specialists. The schematics have been worked and tested for years. The price of grain is a market price and only no regulation. The level of profitability for the mukomels is 5-10 percent, the breadwinners are 15-20, the trade allowance is 15 co-operations, where 50 beaks per 50 km drive 25 percent. And all we have to do is know that in such a difficult year, it's not just a sorghum that doesn't come down or get off that tractor. The funny thing is, if the five people at the casino sat well at dinner, they raised prices for all the APC resources in one night -- they were market relations. If the government holds back the price of holy bread for the population, it's an administrative intervention. You don't have to look at the government right now for May, it's not possible, it's impossible to look at July-August 2004, when there's a new crop. To fit into the market in general, many families need to help the state, perhaps through targeted monetary compensation. They say the money won't come, a big job. It's going to work, because the subsidies for the utilities work and come when, in fact, the money in the treasury is there. Well, kings of gastropods, where something happens just before the harvest, and prices go up, will buy a loaf of bread at both real and market prices. At such an approach, liars who are now sounding, teaching, forgetting that they have brought this boom, without making it simple and sacred, to buy the grain into the public reserve. And the laws on the table were the people's deputies, and the President's decree was on the table on the matter. Two or three moments. It is true that the winter sowing is now under government control. Just enough 20 million for that seed and seed? Let's see, Ivan Grigorovich, and the farmers in particular have a little bit to help these ten days so they can sow the winter wedge. And the last. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm with you. Perhaps your initiative should be supported again. If only we could hear those bills in Parliament one day. So it turns out that if we don't accept those bills, 60 of them, either the head or tail will be in the mud on the Ukrainian Blacklands. We need to help ourselves, not just the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u115	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u116	Dear National Deputies! 161 constituency, Olga Petrovna Hinzburg, Connotapian constituency, Sumska District As I speak from this rostrum, there is much I do not understand, and I applaud each other. A year ago, reforms were carried out under the same ghastly applause, and the Earth Code was being extended here, all the laws. And I would like to say to my constituents today, and to those who are in the hall, and to the government today, not the Communist Party is running the country, not the Communist Party. And all the reforms, and all the laws, are based not on the Communist Party, but on the rest of the deputies present in the Hall. There's only one thing that bothers me, and I can't always find the answer: Why are people so humiliated? In every district a deputy knows they're not against, they're walking around, they're dying, they're preparing for their funerals, they're making graves for themselves, they're buying last-minute bread, and no one's saying anything. I'm always amazed at my people in Ukraine. That's what they're going to do! And just so recently, I was present in the Argentine Parliament, and when the crisis there matured, it was a laugh compared to our crisis, and the MP is ashamed to walk the street, he can't get through because he's going to get beat up. Not because they're there, but because people are throwing away. There's only one, a Trotskyist called an MP who walks boldly on the street. The rest are just hiding. And people stand for themselves. This is how I view this problem. There are reasons that have caused these problems in Ukraine in agriculture. It's the adoption of the law, it's the responsibility of the government, it's the responsibility of the deputies, it's the responsibility of the regional leaders who have seen it all before. Two days ago, prices were rising, and the month was passing, and no one was responding. Then, a month later, when everyone stood still, they rose. Because prices have risen, it's been an hour or two, it's been a day, let's worry about that. There is no responsibility at all. There are reasons. And for these reasons, there are responsible people. And today, we have to name the person responsible for this. I understand my responsibility as I do my job. If I've been trusted, I'll be up all day trying to make it work. And I never translate it, and then I don't say what someone did. That's not what I'm saying. Trace. Do we know what we need? I'm sorry, I want to say the main thing. We know what we need. Prices are needed today, priority. We see that the milk stands for 35 copies, and the gasoline today is 2 bracelets. Why can't we do it the way we did in Soviet times when gasoline cost seven copies and milk 14 copies? That's how it's supposed to be! Why can't we give credit at zero percent when in the Soviet system agriculture was at a high level -- below zero the rate was given these loans. And the state was responsible for that. I found another one for myself, and I want to, do you know what the answer is? You see, since the first of January 2004, the Cabinet of Ministers' decree on income tax from the citizens of section E, article 5, which was found to be that citizens' incomes from sales grown in personal support agriculture, at the docking or gardening area of production, I end up, cattle, rabbits, nutrients, birds alive, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u117	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u118	is not included in the total tax revenue. Thus, when we adopt another tax system on January 1st, we leave our citizens of this system again. That's what it means. That men will cut the cattle, for they are not comfortable this day giving milk to the state. What I want to say is that today the Communist Party is not in power!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we agreed for an hour. If you don't mind, let's do it this way: we'll take another 15 minutes to get to the speech, then the closing word, and we'll be done with these two issues in 14 hours. No objections? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u120	Yuri Solomatin, who was about to perform, conveys his right to speak to Peter Mikolaiovich Simone. Please. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The harshness of the critical situation in Ukraine’s agro-industrial complex is also confirmed by the forecasts of the Minagropolitics. The grains will be collected in the amount of 20.5 million. A ton, and that means the Tooth was talking about the 28th year, and we looked even further. This means that Ukraine will practically harvest crops at the age of 1913. This is the conclusion of the reforms being undertaken in Ukraine. Unfortunately, this year's grain deficit is already felt on our people, and it's a price hike. But, Your Honor, I have a moral right, I appeal to you, fellow members of the national MPs, here warned, no one has responded to the price of meat and fat. They've doubled by now. And that's not the last time they're going to get any higher. Of course, in some ways it is a matter of weather conditions. And that's what the government is trying to write down today in the agri-industrial complex. But there are a number of factors that you no longer write down to bad conditions and solutions that are completely and completely within the authority. First of all, and I would like to point out that the broken system of scientifically-based symphony and other soil fertility measures that lead to the depletion of the land. Earth’s fertility is practically natural. For example, in the 1990s, mineral fertilizers were imported 160 kilograms per hectare, now 13-14, so it was reduced 11-12 times. Organic fertilizers amounted to 10 tons, now virtually up to 1 ton. So it's been reduced by 10 times. As far as mineral fertilizers are concerned, in Ukraine, and this is me, Victor Fedorovich, addressing you, the factories that produce mineral fertilizers, enough. But they work for China and the United States, but not Ukraine. And you need to be the head of the government to put a dot on this: first provide the farmer with mineral fertilizers and then send him abroad. This is going to be a national policy, everything else is an anti-national and traitorous policy in Ukraine. The other one. In Ukraine, in the 1990s, there were 2.6 million hectares of land irrigated, accounting for almost 20 percent of all cropland under crops. For today, who's doing this? [[Back to the government question]] The barbaric irrigation system is destroyed, and metal structures and equipment are cut into scrap metal. I'm sorry: doesn't the government know that it's also a treasonous policy of national interest? Why have they allowed this system to be destroyed? Next, third. In recent years, technology has declined to a quarter, accounting for 55 percent of the need. We have practically 3 or 4 cars today, and because of the lack of harvest combines, it lasts 45 or 60 days. That there are no experts in the government today to understand that every day is too expensive is a centrifuge from a hectare we lose crops. Who doesn't know, the farmer shakes his head, then I tell the truth? If we don't do technology today so you don't promise, it's Vladimir Mikhailovich now, because we're talking about a grain balance, not talking about what we're going to have tomorrow. If we don't do this today, the grain balance will be even worse tomorrow. Today, we are saved by the fact that there is virtually no cattle available and that there is no need for food grain. And if all of this were then, what was Ukraine called? Four. The headship is clear and financing. Fifth. I'd like to pay attention. Finally, the government has to put order in place to pay wages, because today it's almost 40 percent of the average in Ukraine. Who, then, will remain in the country? Young people have left the village last, so we're losing 2.6 million in 10 years, so what do we suggest we do? First. To return and re-create large-scale agricultural production as an economic basis for the development of the Agro-industry complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u122	Thank you, Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u123	Second, in the next two or three years, the issue of technical restocking of agriculture will be resolved. Third. Provide the farmer with cheap loans. This isn't the first time I've said it from this rostrum. As many as you can ask 3-5 percent should be credit rates.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u124	Peter Mikolaiovich, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u125	The last one is to eliminate the imbalance in prices. It's also been a long time since anyone understood. And what the oil mafia is doing today is the last kilo they're going to kill in agriculture if they don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u126	Vladimir Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u127	There will be no independent Ukraine in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u128	Vladimir Cherniak. Our Ukraine faction, prepare for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u129	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. It's not about the June episode, it's about the failure of agrarian politics in recent years. I want to put a bold emphasis: the problem is that there are no economic and financial conditions conducive to the functioning and development of agriculture. What questions are not resolved, and what must be addressed first? Unsolved main issue is that the grain market is not formed and there is no food market with competition mechanisms. If we had a grain market and a food market, we wouldn't have a red episode. The mechanism of government regulation of agriculture, including government procurement, government financing, lending, is not designed at all, on the one hand, to combine market mechanisms, on the other hand, government regulation. It's always hard to create, and this is evidenced by the world's experience, but that's the art of economics and including agrarian politics. As long as we don't have a model like this, we're going to have a crisis in agriculture. The problem of price parity, the price of agricultural production, and agricultural production have not been solved. Because it's not created because state regulation is not what it needs to be. The problem of price formation, pricing, and distribution is not solved. We can give money to agriculture, but will they get to it if the price is shaped in such a way that the left-hand side of the income goes to the processors and the trade. And the messer falls to the producers. Until we change this mechanism of price formation and income distribution, no action will be effective. There's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's gotta be a real market price, but it's got to be real stock markets, but it's got to be real stock markets, not stock markets, not stock markets, not stock markets where everything's got in advance, it's got to be paid and everything's And there's got to be a market mechanism that works on price formation. Unsolved tax and customs policies on agriculture. For example, VAT, they say, "Let's take it off about the grain." What's next? What about torture? We need to think about the whole chain. As far as export-import policy is concerned, it's also reckless. We are now focusing on the import of grain. It is also likely that grains, especially fodder grains, should be exported. If we import the grain and then take it out, then what will happen. And the unresolved issue of financial credit policy and, above all, credit. That's right! Access to credit, discount in interest. Loans should be long-term. And finally, the state reserve has to play its part. And the last. That's what the minister said, and I completely agree with him: we need to save the animals. Animal life is dying! If we do not take emergency measures, adequate measures, it will die. And the birds are being developed. And then we're going to solve all these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u130	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine" faction, to prepare Rudzikowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u131	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky Districts, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka Block "Our Ukraine". My colleagues, and those who want to solve agrarian problems, and those who are still resting. I really like the last phrase of a great friend of Ukraine, Alexander Lukashenko, who says, "It's time to take action and veto the taboo." I think it's probably the same time we have national deputies today. To be honest, after everything in our country was stolen, we had two points of support that Ukraine could still stand on. It's a budget that's also broken, but it's still working. And the second was our Ukrainian village, which, in slavery conditions, was supported by Ukraine. And you will see for yourself that someone has looked at this last resistance of our nation. By the way, I'd like to make a statement right away. I'm not a big fan of the government, but I wouldn't blame that government for anything. We understand from where it began, and today they reap the fruitage of all that has happened. We are very often deceiving here and spreading out with our hands, and we are crying in tears. And we understand very well that, in fact, the bread was not particularly exported from Ukraine, the paper was removed. And now our government is buying the same bread at much higher prices. And by the way, some of the initiators and ideologists are sitting in this room. Dear Victor Fedorovich, I am impressed by your style. Don't be offended that I spoke to you at that time on your presentation, I didn't object to you, I'm against the system that's setting you up right now. We were hoping, at least I was hoping, you assured us, the government would find out, name the culprits, and you'd hear about them. We won't hear it, Victor Fedorovich. I can see we won't hear again. I doubt even if you know that as Prime Minister. Because of that, let's be honest, the point isn't what my great friend and colleague Vlady Cherniak says here is that we have to save animals there and so forth. People need to be saved today. The agrarian sector needs saving. Can we save them? I don't blame the Prime Minister. I don't blame even the minister, although I understand very well that they are not the first echelons, nor are they such great reformers. I blame the whole system, because only in the system we have today could it be done. Because of that, my dear colleagues, I am absolutely convinced that this is an episode. And you don't have to say it's a natural disaster. What Natural Disaster? It's getting a little cold. Well, a lot of the winters. But today I was, I was driving around Ukraine, I had beautiful corn, I had a beautiful sugar beet. Let's not let them rob us and sell us, and we can fill these niches. I conclude with a beautiful phrase from a great friend of Ukraine, a friend of Ukraine, Blackomirdin, who said, "All the questions that have been put here must be collected in one place." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u132	Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u133	Honorable National MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. The discussion of today's issue is more important than constitutional reform and, more importantly, the bills that we will be considering this week. Today, the question is more severe: Will there be a famine in Ukraine in 2003 or not? This year our wise reformers have helped the village so much that they have grown slightly over 5 million tons of wheat. This year alone, it takes two to sow, and it takes eight million to make bread. We have a large wheat deficit. And like 70 years ago, in 1933, there was a possible famine as a result of the policies of the ruling regime, the so-called agrarian reforms of Leonid Kuchma, which the Agrarian Party took responsibility for a year ago. As a result of an unthinked or targeted series of actions to break down agricultural production, the village was unable to grow crops this year, with such weather conditions. And only those who failed to follow the guidelines for reforming agricultural enterprises grew grain this year. Broken businesses are collective, and there are no agrarian firms in place. You don't have to go far. Half the area unexploded. We're going to talk about the Novgord-Severe region of Montenegro, the country of the President, 70 percent of the land of the unseen in general, is growing in shrubs. I think the President and the Constitutional Court, who is still silent about the adoption of the Earth Code, will be given an assessment of history. Now we need to think about how to provide the Ukrainian people with bread. At this rate of consumption, there is enough bread in Ukraine by the end of March. And starting in May, a break of bread will begin on the outskirts of Ukraine. By June, these breakups would have reached the district centers. To avoid that, I proposed a bill to which I would propose, 4127, to withdraw the value added tax and import duty for the import of grain and flour by August 2003. This will allow the border regions to produce grain and flour not only because of large tradesmen but also through sacks and so forth, and to make it impossible for famine to spread across Ukraine’s borders. First. Secondly, increase the internal loan, increase the budget for 2003 and allow the government to purchase one-and-a-half billion dollars from the national producer for a million tons of grain at an overpriced price. So we're going to support the Ukrainian manufacturer. And this is the grain to be sent to produce the cheap bread, 1 kilogram to 1 bracelet. In this way, we will be able to protect the unprotected levels of the population from the famine that is on the rise. I'm not exaggeratingly saying that. Because if we don't take action, we don't take any kind of law, the price of a loaf of bread in June is going to be 4 bracelets. In conclusion, Victor Fedorovich, you need to strengthen the economic block and the agrarian one. The socialists insisted then and now on the resignation of the minister of economy and agriculture. Take professionals to correct mistakes once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, I have such an offer, since we are running out of time for all the factions we've been introducing, we haven't been able to speak at all. That way, he can offer one minute at a time from the place those who signed up to speak now. Gregory Kaletnik, please, then Eugene Kirilchuk and then Ludmila Suprun and Pecklusenko. I'm just asking very briefly, literally, after a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u135	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! We are ready to listen to the Prime Minister, and for the sake of objectivity, I would really like to point out that in this situation the government has actually taken a number of radical and even unpopular measures in the food market. This is a work meeting with all the heads of the region for food, food and pricing, and, more importantly, the President of Ukraine has personally joined in solving the problems of the food market. The government agrarian bloc has initiated and adopted more than two dozen legislative acts, government decisions to support agricultural producers. But what we have to point out is that this is all about going to manual control and trying to tackle the breakthroughs by joining administrative management and interfering with the economic, financial and economic structures of the market economy. Could these problems be avoided? So if last year, when there was cheap grain in Ukraine, and we could then get some courage and 400 million, as we did this year, buy this grain, first of all, it would be a completely different quantity, 2.5-3 times larger. The second point is that these costs would be incurred by our Ukrainian domestic producer and, of course, that in this year, Dereserve would have something to do with the food market. What's more, I think that the need for diesel fuel, which today has created such a sharp situation, negative, especially in the agrarian economy of our country, can also be produced directly in the APC, because it is the ethanol and biodereal fuel production programme that it is developed, technology is known, and it would improve even the structure, fertility of the fields, because we have in Winnitzki, Žitomirski, Hmielnicki and other areas of our Ukraine the best conditions for the cultivation of rape and molasses in us also enough, and we could eliminate such a fuel gap that affects especially the agro-industrial complex each year. But right here, in this room, we're essentially voting by the people's deputies to join in that we've blocked the possibility of developing our own fuel production programme and ensuring Ukraine's independence from oil imports and improving security. Well, a few numbers to compare. I answer to those who say it here, especially because we talk a lot and help agriculture. This year, what we've provided and financially helped is 360 million dollars to compensate for the 2004 crop costs. With a lot of pressure, you could say that 270 million dollars is also some kind of help, even though I think it's more like we've worked on the banking system. Well, in general, we've foreseen up to half a billion dollars for agriculture this year. But what are the negatives? Even in two months, we will lose more than 500 million dollars at the cost of diesel fuel. Well, last sentence, Vladimir Mikhailovich, of course, is in such a term. I would like, of course, to suggest that the agrarian block of government is not enough, but I would like to invite all the national MPs to take a deep and understanding approach to the situation and join everyone in solving the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u136	Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk, please. Let's make specific suggestions. Please, Your Honor, we don't have time. Please, Eugene Kirilchuk, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block. Human Supruna is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u137	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! I put myself in the position of a private peasant, and I think how did he feel after the vice-premier's report on the stability of the situation? I don't think everyone listened to the end, they just ruled it out, because to put up with this self-esteem, not all of them probably did it in places. Well, the authorities have the situation, the authorities have the order, the authorities have the power. Yes, the government has endured, but the people have failed. Even today, if bread is cheaper than that in the Pecher district of Kiev than in the Shaq district of Volin, with the Polish border, and the speculators continue to raise prices for grains, for pasta, for bread in remote locations, what order is indicated? Today, even those farms that want to sell bread to the Centre are to the East. The DAI won't let them out of the area. I mean, there are powerful methods, there is no order. And to say that something has already been achieved today, even those promises that the Prime Minister here and the Prime Minister has promised that they will be guilty, the prices will be returned to this provocation, I would call it, diversion number one, nothing has been done. No price for any type of product is returned to the level it was. They stayed two times higher than they were. So it's a dangerous situation. And it's also dangerous in the second diversion, diversion number two. One day after someone's magic wand across Ukraine, 15 to 25 percent of the price of oil products rose, from the Polish border to Kiev. I heard it yesterday and after the Dnipropetrov situation, so it's all over Ukraine. Because the grain harvest is only 10 percent of the work that is done in the village. The rest are mostly the work of the autumn. It started sown, started collecting sugar beet, sunflower, corn -- they're going to bring back what didn't raise the price of oil in the harvest, because there was nothing there to collect. Because of this, the oil barons who are in charge of this process today should be with the Prime Minister in the cabinet and with the Head of the Supreme Council tomorrow. Even now, oil is more fuel than kindergartens in Ukraine. And for these top incomes that they take from the private people, from the same peasants, they go on building. Because today, we still have to emphasize, just on our fingers, that determination, that law that we passed before vacation -- help agriculture -- is not implemented. Credit takes a peasant for full cost - one day we'll get back.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u139	The seed will come back when what you sow comes back. So all the points.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u140	Ludmila Pavlovna Suprun, please, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u141	It will be impossible to recognize her work as satisfying, and we must return to this question again after at least two weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u142	Dear colleagues! I ask you to continue your work for 15 minutes to complete this consideration, please, Ludmila Pavlovna Suprun, prepare for Hellfire.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u143	Dear Victor Fedorovich! Dear members of the government! Dear colleagues! The NDP faction always consistently advocates a complex, science-based approach to solving any problem in society. Including the problems we are discussing with you today. Unfortunately, in the absence of time, I am forced not to look into the situation, and I think it has already been done well by both members of the government and my colleagues in parliament. So I would like to suggest what measures the NDP is proposing today to stabilize the agricultural market. Unfortunately, the national saying, "Stop trading your father because there's nothing to give" has become a reality in Ukraine, but we can fix this situation if both the government and parliament in this situation show political will and act together. Political will is possible through the adoption of legislative acts that will be agreed upon by the legislative and executive authorities. And first of all, this is a review of the bill, which is called The Public, Financial and Budgetary Support of the Agro-Industry Complex. This bill allows and solves the government's hands to take any action that is caused by the market situation in the APC. First of all, we offer, without delay, to amend the State Budget Act, Viktor Fedorovich, and to allow for the use of 400 million bracelets that have been diverted to the reserve to buy other types of produce, not just grains, which unfortunately are not available today. Otherwise, we may lose the sugar market, with the meat market in another food group. Under these circumstances, we think we need to add an addition to the State Budget Act. For this reason, coordinate the Ministry of Agriculture with the State Reserve. Otherwise, their actions will be like completely different mechanisms of the same system. We propose to organize the wholesale food market through the introduction of market trade and to give the government the right to administratively influence the situation for those who do not work in such an organized market, or to apply administrative influence methods to them, to those in the proposed bill. We also suggest that, with a view to preserving the price of livestock, with a view to avoiding a solution to livestock, wholesale markets should be introduced in livestock. Establish mandatory insurance from this year for the timely response of Kabmin to mandatory crop insurance. And unfortunately, the last thing I'm going to say right now is that our proposal in view of what was once eliminated by the State Plan and the Ministry of Economics has not been informed about that past baggage and experience, about the establishment of material balance in the field, material balance in the production of certain kinds of products, about the creation of an agency or a special unit in the structure of this ministry, or with Kabmin, which will give a clear answer: how is the market price formed. Then the government will know what methods and measures of influence can be taken to keep the price orderly. Our suggestions will be made in writing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u144	Alexander Pecklushenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u145	84th constituency, Zaporozhye faction. Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is now a Government here in Parliament and another 2,000 people who are relevant to the executive bodies on the ground listening to us. They're hearing about what we're going to say. When we rested with you at sea, this whole power complex dealt with the problem. How did he do? I think it would be very good to see the situation in 61, 64 years. This is where people sit and remember this situation. They remember when there were 2-3 times more grains in the country than there is so far. But in the consumer market, the situation was much worse than it is today. The faction of the regions therefore clearly states that the Government's actions have been highly professional. And you don't have to take the reins off today. The only way to get them out of the village is to move them to the city of Kiev. First of all, we need to deal with the rise in fuel prices. Vladimir Mihajlovich, we, the Supreme Council, must immediately consider this situation with the Attorney-General's Office. Let's stop the increase in fuel prices, save the agrarian complex. That's the first one. Second. At least Kabmina is dependent on the situation in the agrarian complex by Parliament. More than that. See, the committee colleague reports: 56 laws have been adopted on this issue. Why didn't you, my colleague, report how much real money -- budget, credit, investment -- is behind these 56 laws? Everything about economic laws, especially in the countryside, I think. There's no money. There's nothing to make a law. A law without money is a slogan and a poster. That's the first one. Second. A set of laws that can move the agricultural sector particularly in the area of credit. Since previous sessions, 6 credit laws have been without movement. The law, Catherine Vasuk said correctly, there's an insurance law too. So what are we thinking? Who are we sneezing at? It must be understood that until the political component is removed from our work, we will not change anything until the work is done with Kabmin. I call you to this, to constructively work together, and I say to Kabina, keep it that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u146	Thank you. From the place, please, Mikhailo Melniczuk, one minute, and then Alexander Tkachenko, they insist. And then we're going to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u147	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to thank you for organizing this important discussion today. And you know why? I bow to the metallurgy that was spoken today more than the village. But as a professional agricultural worker, I would never allow myself to speak and discuss issues in the field of metallurgy or coal industry. I think that when we got a statement from the faction that the Socialist Party was the national MP Melniczuk, you had to respond because the agrarian committee had made a decision on this issue. I bow before we spoke here today. I think the decision made by the socialists did not fall into the hall today, it will fall on Thursday or Friday, and the matter will be where it will be. We will sing diphirambs to each other at a time when prices of only 20 percent of yesterday’s bread were on the market.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I go according to the Rules, according to the Committee's proposals. I didn't have applications, there were national MPs, including you last recorded. Dear colleague, for me, all deputies are equal, and everyone has the right to speak. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko. I go according to the Rules of Honor. I didn't have any applications, I don't need them. I'm asking you not to blame me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u149	Dear friends, dear colleagues, I think that Ukraine has not experienced the national tragedy that has been experienced today, the national disgrace that Ukraine has experienced as it walks the world with its arms stretched out. We have 48 million left. We have 34 million ore land. The average price of a hectare is 10 centimetres of bread per hectare, tons. Waterline below which a grain balance, Vitaly Fedorovich, is not allowed to fall, you need to remember your temptations, at least 34 million. But not the 12 he has today. One hundred and fifty pounds [145 kg] of flour is added to the per capita population. That's 70 percent of the way out of the grain. A person’s per capita needs to have 80 pounds [78 kg] of meat, 200 pounds [120 kg] of milk, and 270 eggs. Let's look at the balance that was presented today and they're afraid to say when the grain balance was a secret in the state. Don't we keep energy a secret? How much coal do we produce? As much as we produce electricity or cars or ships from the stables have been lowered. That you keep your bread balance a secret. From whom do we hide balance? We are hiding the reform that led to this state of affairs. And today we need to make a very simple and clear decision. Which, in 12 years of reforming the agro-industrial complex, is deadlocked, and we need to make one decision -- whether it's the Cabinet of Ministers or not to enact a law on cooperation. Thirty-four million hectares of land to break into cities is a national disgrace. Ukraine has always lived in villages, not furrows. And what we did today is the results. They said I didn't want to do it again. But, dear friends, we're on a hectare of land, I'm in front of you the minister who was the first and last to produce a ton of bread per capita. Today it's 250-260. That's why I'm saying it's a tragedy, four times. And the population declined by 5 million, not four times the population. So we lead, we logically lead to extinction. But the Ukrainian people are dying, no minorities are dying!Oh, my God! [[Applause]] So, dear friends, I think, Vitaly Fedorovich, your colleagues. Victor Fedorovich, remember that 1,500 bracelets a minimum price per hectare is needed in a year to have a ton of bread in order to have 78 kg of meat. Today, we use 23 kg of meat per capita. Now instead of 145 kilograms of baked bread, how much did we say in this rostrum? 129.8. It's bread, not grain! So I think we need to make a decision from one point that today's policy today has led to the tragedy of Ukraine. I think that in 2004, the people will choose a nation of rulers, and the government will be elected accordingly. And the second question is to decide to assign an agrarian committee, along with the Academy of Agrarian Sciences, to draft a law on cooperation. And if we do that with you, believe me, whether today's Cabinet of Ministers, or the coming one, he'll do the mission that he trusts in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u150	Thank you. Dear colleagues! One minute, Minister Sergey Ribuk of Agrarian Politics. Then we'll ask the Deputy Prime Minister to tell us what conclusions they've drawn.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Of course, many questions and suggestions were constructive to the Ministry of Agrarian Politics and Charges. Of course, I can't sit down, just literally for one minute. Of course, the absolute majority of the Ministry's design accepts that criticism, and we're trying to be self-critical and we're going to draw more and more conclusions. But now the red demands of part of the national MPs -- the resignation of the agrarian bloc and me personally as the minister -- have been restored. I want to say today that I am absolutely answering that the resignation is not a problem for me personally, and I am absolutely honest with you. And I think that those who offer to resign understand very clearly that this is not the key to solving the problem. However, I have long lived up to the principle that no matter what happens, I look for a reason in myself. I'm looking in myself and I'm finding a reason. Already in June, I appeared to Viktor Fedorovich, Prime Minister, and I asked that I should probably retire, but I got a solid and correct answer, in my opinion, clearly specific, that allowed for shortcomings - stabilize the market, the soybean, then we'll decide what's wrong with you. And as a disciplined person in the government, I listened. We stabilized by whatever method there is right and wrong, and today we are actively sowing, 103 percent of the seeds we have, even though they have been sifted twice. Today I will report this to you and to the Prime Minister. But I'm ready to pass the estaphet to another, I'm ready. And I express my willingness not to resign for the pleasure of ambition as a warrior's opposition, which is convenient to change governments and ministers each year so that they don't be able to figure out the situation and what to say to whom. And as individuals there, most of the friends who every day put thresholds on me to let them steal the last property of the state. These wolves in sheep's clothing, you see, not one dozen ministers have taken the bait and do not want the political reforms offered by the President of Ukraine. I only want one thing to ensure that our government is purposeful and effective without the burden of old mistakes. I came from that government, I'm ready to answer, but everywhere I go, I'm going to work honestly, loyally and having my own principled position. I'm going to do it now, and I'm going to take this position. But let me tell you, the fate of the minister will be decided by the President of Ukraine and by my consultations with the faction of the Agrarian Party that recommended me. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u152	Yes, Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u153	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished Viktor Fedorovich, distinguished colleagues! With regard to the Minister's speech, I can say that the destruction of the government on which they were present, by the way, the majority of those present in the Chamber who remained, the MP, the personal responsibility for the situation was placed personally on the Deputy Prime Minister. That's why I'm responsible for everything that's going on right now, for all the shortcomings, for the problems that there are and maybe will be, I really will, and for the Prime Minister who's invited me on the team, and for the President, and for you, I also have full responsibility and I'm ready to really answer for it. The agrarians have been in this rostrum lately. You're witnesses and you see it. And it's objectively and legally and probably justifiable, because this village is Ukrainian, it's so shaky about it, and so we all really, really, really hurt for it. I really hope that the number of exits on the rostrum will turn into quality, because we have the next few days in the Supreme Council to have a draft budget for the next year -- and there's a reflection of agrarian politics. And then for four months, we're going to have this conversation with you on the Budget Committee with the government, but before the leadership, under the leadership of the Supreme Council. So I'd like those business propositions that we have here, we already see that the obvious insurance -- yes, it's necessary, long term lending -- without it there's no technological, no innovation, no investment, we have to -- let's predict both in the budget, and in that basic law that there is. It was said today for price policy. That's absolutely right. For the strong actions of the government and the state in this market, which, on account of the large volumes, would purchase into the state chamber, on the one hand, and stabilize the situation, made these problems impossible that we had in June; and on the other hand, the state went out at such a price that everyone else adapts, they would have to adjust. Is that a market? A market mechanism. Clear? It's transparent. Is it open? It's open. The authorities have made an honest statement about this today. Today, with my mouth in the rostrum, we spoke agrarian government policy, and we offered strong measures. We can only do them together, colleagues, you understand that very well. And those laws that are, which are in the summer with you, because many of you weren't on vacations, but were working, regardless of faction: either left or centrist or right faction -- we were all in government, we were working on these laws. Today, there was talk for them. They must be polished and supported in an orderly manner, since the budget process goes hand in hand with the policy of agrarians for the coming year. This government can be reproached for anything but inactivity. I agree with this point, which I've heard in this room, and I imagine if we didn't do anything, and if we were to do everything on the natural will that the whole market is full of ourselves, just let the prices go. This glass roof would rise and perhaps be beyond the next session in August, for the price of three times the bread would not stand. After hearings at the Supreme Council, read the decree, which is your determination to do just that. And we've done that, if we're living in this village together today, let's do it together in a very public place where every position stands for the budget committee. Let's stand up in the hall with the agrarians left, there are more and more who are suffering and hurting. Let's stand down in agrarian politics for 2004. Believe what the rostrum said that the government would provide a stable situation, it was not an empty word, we were obliged to do it, we had no one else to support and work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u154	Please, Victor Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u155	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear members of the government! Indeed, the government has endured, including today’s discussion of the subject, a complex issue. I listened very carefully, wrote something down. What we need to know, and I think we're going to live together in the near future. During this time, I personally had to meet both agricultural producers and all the participants in this grain and bread market. I met both sellers and farmers as well as farmers. You know that there have always been many differences in what is said to be flaws, and they've always blamed power. But the people, they are always wiser and the people find the means, and they are said to be the answer. So at that time, I also consulted people, with ordinary people, and I said, and now in this room, I'm going to say that we had no other option. If we didn't do this, today would be the price, and you know it would be much higher than it is on bread products right now. But it's not heroism, it's trouble. And I've been talking about trouble from the very beginning when we were discussing this for the first time in this room. As we got out of it, let the Ukrainian people draw their conclusions. And I don't want to separate myself from the national MPs or the legislature who's here because we worked together and I want the government not to be isolated. But the responsibility: we don't refuse it -- we have responsibility, and we will continue to do so. Therefore, the distinguished national MPs, in fact, the situation in the grain market is complex and the first steps we took were caused by the crisis itself. And all other steps we should take are foreordained; we should do as they say: by science, by mind, and by the way your heart tells us. So now we're going to keep working, and we're going to propose a whole set of laws. And we're going to be working together as soon as possible on a budget where we're going to have a lot of differences and contradictions, and the possibilities of agreeing on and correcting the situation in the future. So I am in favour of working together and always listening to national wisdom. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-09-m0.u156	Dear colleagues! Let's finish the question. I think we're all aware that today it's extremely difficult and difficult for the government to work under conditions that the government has adopted. We're all talking here, and we're all saying the right thing. However, I am convinced that we do not finally feel the situation in which a simple person lives in the country. And that, I think, is the reality that we need to talk about. We've had, I think, a competition today, in many cases, someone's going to talk a little bit more about the state of our village, the agro-industrial complex. And what's important is that we all had a reason when we talked about the situation. But according to the wanking figures, which were again cited here and in support of the government's position, and the criticism of the government's position is not seen, the main thing is how a person feels about how he lives. I'll tell you frankly what I felt when I stopped on the way to buy milk from people who trade there in the Kyiv region, and they told me everything they thought about power, about the people's deputies, first of all, then about government, and everyone. [[The village of Zelenyk, who knows]] They told me, and I think it was a really objective painting, that we are the key to what we can talk about, that we are responsible. Dear National Deputies! We did not even succeed in listening to information and reports, in making a balanced and needed decision to support the government, and in directing the government to do so. Right now we're listening to government information, we can't ask, because we haven't made any decisions, we've just wasted time. This applies to all of us and to each of us individually. Dear colleagues, we may need to elaborate on the draft decision that is proposed, but not in the way that we are offered. Two draft rulings proposed. I think it's not the first or the second one that doesn't reflect the situation, even the discussion we had today. I would ask the committee, taking into account those suggestions, the right, the right, the right proposals made by the people's deputies, to work on it, and to put one to the vote on Thursday, I would stress one project that we could take to include it in the budget. At the same time, I think we should anticipate a list of bills in this decree that should be adopted. And to determine one or two days, to consider these bills and to say that the Supreme Council has carried out its mission, now it's a matter for the government, and Parliament will have systematic hard control over how those laws and decisions that we will make will be implemented. If there is no objection, let us give this commission to the committee headed by Tomic Ivan Fedorovich. Is there no objection? So we're done here. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00. After 16 hours, the matter will be considered, the draft Law on the State Privatization Programme. Thanks for the job.
