ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:47]] Registered -391 There are 391 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to welcome you to the old New Year, to wish you success in all kinds of health, happiness in children, and family life. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Vaszczuk Catherine Timothy. [[Applause]] Pavluka Mikola Pantelemonovich I Potapova Vasil Ivanovich, 55 years old. [[Applause]] Let us welcome, wish happiness, health, and all kinds of good things. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, according to the calendar schedule for the second session of the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Government Day is being held. To implement the Ukrainian Supreme Council’s decision of November 21, 2002, the subject of our consideration on Government Day will be the steps taken by the Cabinet of Ministers to enforce legislation to minimize damage from the destructive effects of floods and floods, the protection of population sites, national affairs, and lands from the harmful effects of waters. The government has identified a minister for emergencies and for protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Grigory Vasilovich Revou. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster proposes to set the following rules of procedure: a report for information to be given 15 minutes, 1 hour to answer the questions in writing and directly from you, your colleagues, 5 minutes to speak to a representative of the committee and to discuss the problem within 45 minutes. Is there no objection? At 13 p.m. to summarize the matter. And if you don't have any objection, then you could vote on questions that came together a lot. And on Government Day, we don't have a distraction. Is there no objection to the rules? Then let us move on to the question. Please, Grigory Vasilovich Reva, Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that the problems of protecting against the destructive and other harmful effects of the waters are constantly in the eyes of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and are no longer in the order of its day. In our country these issues are addressed by the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the Ministry of Ecoresurs, the State Guides and other central, local executives within a defined competence. These problems are common to almost all parts of Ukraine, and floods and flooding are the most damaging to humans, the economy, and the environment. On Zacarpatha alone, 4,908, the floods of 98 - 2001, seriously damaged 21,000. 227 housing units. A total of 66 km of hydropharmaceuticals, 75 bridges, were destroyed, and hundreds of miles of roads and many other vital objects were removed. The natural and technological submergement of land, of which there is an area of 143 thousand, is causing no less damage. Kv km is affected by the population of more than 500 cities and towns of the city type, 1127 rural areas. It's one of the dangerous processes, because it triggers the activation of shifts, karsts, and grounding. Taking into account the above legislation on the minimization of floods and floods, the protection of population sites, national-owned sites and lands from the adverse effects of water, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has focused its efforts on eliminating the consequences of the devastating floods of the years 98–2001 at Zakarpatta and solving the social problems of the affected citizens, taking steps to ensure the protection of the population of the Carpathian and other regions of the country from the devastating effects of floods and floods, and implementing programmes to protect against harmful activities primarily. In its work, the government is governed by the Ukrainian Law on the National Water Management Programme. What exactly is done? First, during the years of the reconstruction of 98-2002, 3,967 residential buildings were introduced in the Zakartat region, 63 km of flood protection structures, 178 km of highways were built, 20 bridges were set up, 19 km of river routes were set aside, and a large amount of work was carried out in the amount of 439 million. That's right. Secondly, 311 km of dams, 124 km of shores, and 461 km of river rudders have been built in the water management sector over the years. In the area of forest management, flood management has been carried out with the development of forest roads and the implementation of conservation technologies, logging in mountainous areas of the Carpathian Mountains for the period up to 2010 and the government program "The Forests of Ukraine". In order to implement the programmes and decrees of the President of Ukraine to announce individual areas of the Zakarpatsk region as a zone of ecological emergency, 345 km of road painting, 1,300 meters of bridges, 3,452 feet [4,452 m] of underground walls have been restored and built. In the area of Minagropolitics, with the aim of overcoming the phenomena of submerged areas, farm complexes or farmland, which cause losses of almost 205 million dollars annually, a number of practical measures are being implemented to study the deep causes of submergment and, on this basis, to identify scientifically sound measures to progressively reduce the negative impact of this phenomenon, to create an integrated set of knowledge in the decision-making system for predicting and preventing water damage in irrigation and to choose resources for environmentally sound and economically sound water use technologies. In the area of international relations, the highest level of international co-operation in the economy has reached Ukrainian-Hungarian, Ukrainian-Slovak and, to some extent, Ukrainian-Moldaw borders. Central and local authorities, especially the Ministry of State and State Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Statelyvodgosp, Zakarpatska, Lvivska, Chernivecka, Odessa observatories are actively working to improve management decisions, including in the area of protection of water damage. A joint project called "Ukraine-NATO" has entered the practical phase of the flood response in the Carpathian region. The practical contents of the Ukrainian initiatives announced at the Budapest Water Forum are filled. Effective cooperation with the Swiss Confederation continues, providing tangible assistance in eliminating the effects of catastrophic floods at Zakarpata, with other countries, particularly the border. In the area of financing between 1999 and 2000, it was carried out at a nimble level, rhythmically and in a range that is close to real needs. This allowed much protection of the settlements and agricultural conditions of the Carpathians from the flood of 2001. At the same time, the programme was funded by 10 percent last year and by 28 percent after Zakarpatt. A comprehensive flood protection programme in the Tis River Basin in the Zakarpatsk region has allocated 1 million 200 thousand dollars, representing 6 percent of the assigned assignments. This level of funding is explained by the lack of income from the State Budget and the need for social expenditure and other priority expenditure as a matter of priority. In doing so, it should be noted that expenses, for example, do not refer to the number of protected articles in the State Budget. In the current year, 20 million 42,000 dollars are allocated to the water protection programme in rural and agricultural areas, which is actually more than in 2002. To provide financial support for the integrated flood protection program of the Tisa River Basin in the Zakartat region, 10 million dollars are available. In the future, expenditure on the respective budget programmes will be determined by the results of the Chief Manager’s work in recent and current years. This, in turn, requires the development of effective indicators that will allow us to determine the return of the budget used, the economics and the duration of the programmes, their need and actual compliance with the objective set, as well as the ability to compare budget programmes and to select the most effective ones. In other areas, over the past two years, more than 830 objects have been checked for thorough inspection and passporting. As a result, a number of measures have been carried out to carry out the President's mandate to carry out a further examination of hydrotechnical facilities of power plants, and a number of measures have been developed to further improve the reliability and safety of GES equipment, and a central archive of documentation has been developed to test the technical condition of artificial buildings. In constant readiness to do so, it is necessary to group forces and means of rapid response, which have repeatedly demonstrated their ability to cope with the most difficult situations both in and outside Ukraine. Special attention is paid to water protection activities in the alienation zone. Its main course is and will remain the minimization of radionuclids in the Pripeta River and on to the Dniprovska Kascad. At present, 14 dams of a 15 - km - long 15 - mile [15 km] type are being used for maintenance. The Pripet River, with a polder dam of 11 kilometers [11 km] and drainage canals of nearly six miles [6 km]. The area, localized by polder structures, consists of 20 square kilometers, which focuses more than half of the 90th strionium and plutonium. And that's what turned them away from their possible infestation wash during the flood of 1994-1999. Respectable national MPs, concentrated efforts by the government of central and local executive authorities to carry out the most vital tasks of life, fruitful cooperation with the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the National Deputies have yielded results. Despite the exceptional flood power in 2001, which was higher than in 1998, the damage was much lower. They amounted to 300 million dollars, in addition to 810 million dollars in 1998. At the same time, the vast majority of programmes are not fully implemented, and some, for example, are not being implemented in 2001 and 2005 at all. And it's not always about funding. Much depends on the regions, as this is the case with permanent unauthorized power cuts, drainage complexes, and power lines. The effects of catastrophic floods are created by artificial agents, such as surface streams, riverbeds, garbage, and waste from logging, small rivers, streams, and streams. The uncontrolled construction of factory buildings and the housing of the most vulnerable to floods of rivers below. Regions need to radically change their view of the problem of the protection of equal and other harmful effects of water, the consumer’s position on the elimination of the consequences of their actual appearance. In recognition of its responsibility for protecting the population of areas from floods, floods, and other harmful activities, the government plans to do so. First. In the near future, to complete the development and to bring to your attention a programme of activities of one of the priority components of which will be actions aimed at guaranteeing the protection of Ukrainian citizens from natural and technological emergencies, including the harmful effects of water in all its manifestations. The other one. With a view to developing financial support mechanisms for water management, the State’s cost of maintaining water bodies, amending the regulatory framework, improving the legal, economic, and administrative aspects of management, ensuring that water charges become a major source of financing, maintaining the proper condition of water bodies, their reconstructions, and measures to prevent water damage. Third. In the context of the issues addressed by the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on 25 September and 11 November 2002, the following tasks will be addressed: to improve the existing regulatory framework with a view to bringing the European Union closer to standards and standards that will improve governance decisions in the field of water protection; to review all valid water management programmes, to combat floods and submergment, to protect water resources and to improve water quality in order to identify the most relevant water-related problems and to focus all efforts on them in material, technical, financial resources; to activate international and inter-regional cross-border cooperation in the field of environmental protection of the Tis basin and to address environmental issues of the Carpathian region. Four. The civil protection system will work for prejudice by strengthening the integrity of the prevention and emergency response system by taking effective, preventive measures. It's very important. Fifth. The highest requirement will be to address the issue of targeted use of funds allocated for the disposal of floods, and to implement flood control programs. Even more inconsequential facts that violate financial discipline, theft, and abuse will be used decisively. So what I'm trying to say is that there are 419 objects in the Zakartat region that have a total funding of 189 million 521 thousand. The checks covered 92 percent of the budget. Illicit and purposeless expenditure of the budget is set at 137 enterprises, institutions, and organizations totalling 2 million 953,000. They're underexpenditures of 1 million, 438,000, other financial irregularities of 1 million, 515 thousand. 20 officials who have been violated have been called to administrative responsibility in the form of fines. The material of 30 tests has been transferred to the law enforcement authorities. Dear National Deputies! The government, the central and local authorities, the disaster relief forces have been doing their best in the last three years to give relief and shelter to those who lost it as soon as possible. That is why a number of policy measures and legislative requirements for flood prevention and submergment have been left outside the capacity of the State. By appreciating the state of affairs in this area, we clearly recognize its crisis, its danger, and the urgent need for action on radical improvement. Let us be truly grateful for the constructive conversation, the objective evaluation and the business advice that will lead us to a common path to the natural and technological well-being, the secure life of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! Report completed. I'm asking you to sign up for a question, and please answer the letter there. Let's queue: one in writing, one in the nation's deputies directly. Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u4	Committee on Social Policy and Labour. It's a question. "How much does the government plan to allocate in 2003 to programmes to prevent floods and floods?".. The 2003 State Budget provides for the cost of such budget programs to prevent flood damage. Minecores. The development of structures and hydrometric observations and forecasting on rivers and watercourses is 1 million 46,000 dollars. Mr. President, I'd like Protecting against water damage in rural and agricultural areas is 32 million. Comprehensive flood protection in the Tis Cancer Basin in the Zakarpatsk region is 14 million dollars. State monitoring of surface waters Water cadastra, water management passporting 4 million 826,000 dollars. In addition, article 52 of the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's 2003 State Budget provides for the directing of 8 million dollars at the expense of state-owned central capital investments in the integrated flood protection measures of the Tis Basin in the Zakartat region. In total, there are 59 million 914 thousand.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u5	Please provide a list of the names of the national deputies who have been enrolled. Stepan Bogdanovich Gavrish, Deputy Group of Democratic Initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u6	Thank you. Stepan Gavrish, Deputy Group of Democratic Initiatives. Dear Gregory Vasilovich, thank you so much for your professional report, but I have a question for you. There's something I don't understand why you're reporting this very important issue for Ukraine, not the minister of ecology, for example, who should be your partner in this rostrum. Please tell me, is there any program to prevent or eliminate the effects of flood damage in Ukraine? And who is funding these programs, which are budgeting their own measures to prevent these natural, so to speak, conditions that affect the substantial development of both their own territory and the economic situation in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u7	Got it. Thank you for asking. First. The government has identified the Ministry of Emergency Situations, so I'm a soldier, and I'm reporting, like the Ministry of Emergency Situations, has a very big bearing on floods, floods, and most of all, the elimination of their accidents. The second question. In Ukraine, indeed, the law provides several programs and, in my opinion, very important programs for flood prevention, yes, and flood prevention. If you remember, in 70 years of Soviet rule there was no such program, it is in Ukraine today. As far as funding is concerned, financing of these programmes goes through the Committee of the State, Minecores, Debbud and the State Treasury, and through the Ministry of Emergency Financing, there is no financing for these purposes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u8	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u9	The faction of the People's Democratic Party. Question: "In the 2002-2006 integrated flood protection programme of the Tis Zacarpathian River Basin and forecast for 2015, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economics and European Integration, the Ministry of Emergency Situations and the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the State Committee on Water Management was entrusted with carrying out appropriate work on the involvement of additional financial resources, including foreign investors for the implementation of the programme. What's the amount of additional funding involved, and what are the measures they're looking at?" At the expense of the Swiss Confederation, three dams, 11.6 kilometers [11.6 km], were built and reconstructed at Zakarpata, and 0.5 kilometers [0.5 km] of shore-building were completed. The total investment is 7.7 million dollars. In 2002, the Government of Hungary provided Zacarpathia with free material and technical assistance in the amount of $420,000 for the development of an automated system called Tissa. Today, it was signed, not today, but a free-aid agreement was signed, amounting to about $880,000 for the development of the second round of the system. Several international projects have been launched: the Ukrainian-Slovak flood project in Slovakia and Ukraine, with an investment volume of about $900,000. With the technical assistance of German techno-economic experts, the international flood control system in the Tisa River basin is based on a budget of 200,000. Euro. Acceptance of funding by the European Commission, Ukraine's request to develop a project, develop a forecasting system, monitor and manage floods in the Zakartat region from a budget of 3 million Euro. This is the prospect and what has been done today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u10	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u11	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Gregory Vasilovich, I have two questions. First. Today, it is known that there is a likelihood of repollution of the Tis River basin in Ukraine by cyanides and heavy metal salts due to industrial accidents in Romanian mining enterprises. What do you think needs to be done to minimize the consequences of possible accidents in Romania’s businesses? That's the first question. And second of all, it's relevant to me today. The ministry is known to be reforming state search and rescue services on water objects. What is the purpose of this reform, and what measures are now being taken to ensure that people are rescued in water during the winter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u12	Got it. First question. Thank you for asking. So in fact, in 2000, Romanian companies were forced to drop cyanides in the Tisa River as a result of the technological process. And such a threat may be today. Well, first of all, what was done? There was a monitoring of this situation. Then there were negotiations between the government of Romania and Ukraine on these issues. Third, 500 million has been used during this time. A bracelet to improve the situation. And if you say so today, there is a threat. So first of all, we need to step up the negotiation process, secondly, we need to take the steps that are planned in the Tis basin. And I think we can minimize this situation. As for the second question. In fact, today the Ministry of Emergency Situations is a state rescue service that saves people on the water. But it's not that powerful today. So we're predicting from civilian organizations, taking 19 divers units to this service to strengthen the Ministry of Emergency Situations to rescue people on water in areas where it needs to be. Today, this work is being done, and I think that in the near future this year, citizens will feel the impact of the Ministry of Emergency Situations on these problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u13	Letters, please, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u14	Social Policy and Labour Committee: "Does the government fully provide local councils and government executive authorities with the necessary timely hydrological and hydrochemical information?" Ukraine's Hydrometeorological Act defines hydrometeorological activities as the main directions of hydrometeorological activity: monitoring of hydrometeorological conditions, development of hydrometeorological projections, provision of public authorities to local authorities. Population. Hydrometeorological services are an integral part of a single national system of prevention and response to technological and natural emergencies. This system has two subsystems: monitoring and monitoring of natural hydrometeorological phenomena and pollution and predicting hydrometeorological conditions and phenomena. By order of the President of Ukraine, the function of a specially authorized central authority of executive authority in the field of hydrometeorological activity is laid down in Minecology, which consists of a national hydrometeorological service. The entire state system of hydrometeorological observations and forecasting is the basis of hydrometeorological services. The surveillance and forecasting service is operating on an operating basis, day and day, without holidays or weekends. Each year, hydrometeorological services make up about 8,000 hydrological forecasts, about 5,000 storm observations of dangerous and natural hydrometeorological phenomena. That is the situation today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u15	Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u16	Please pass the word to George Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u17	National MP Manchulenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u18	I am truly grateful to Boris Yakovich. George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Gregory Vasilovich, during July and September 2001, heavy floods took place in the Black Sea region of St. The damage is about 3 million dollars. Unfortunately, to this day, there have been repeated appeals by both the local district authorities and my appeals as a deputy have no results so far. These are the links that don't run the budget, there's no money in the budget. In July 2002, a similar problem arose in the Visnik region of the Cherniewec region on the river Trzemosh, where there were terrible losses, and it is also directed at the amount of 3 million dollars. The same is true of the village of Rostoka in Putil, which, in the case of severe floods, can be washed away, God forbid, and the construction of a transfiguration dam. Once again, no funds were received from Kabmin. You're talking about the Zakarpatsk region, yes, there's a terrible situation there, but if we don't want to repeat a similar situation in the Chernobyl area, let's solve this problem. I'd like to ask you for a clear answer in these three areas that the government is planning to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u19	Well, first of all, the program, which will be presented shortly by the Supreme Council from the government, provides for all of the tasks that are provided by the integrated programmes for the fight against floods and floods. So in my report, I touched a little bit not specifically these regions, but actually this problem and the financing of this direction. That's why I don't think so, and that's how we're going to present concrete funding measures, including those three areas that we haven't named. But what you've asked, I'm going to write it down with the State Guide and the Minecores, and we're going to work out this question, and we're going to give you a specific answer in these three regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u20	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u21	The Communist Party of Ukraine. What was the cost of the State’s decline in soil fertility in such areas and the deterioration of the quality of drinking water for the population? According to hydrogeometrics in the irrigated farming area, there are 6,000 acres [6,000 ha] of farmland in the submerged state. Or 0.25 percent of the total area of irrigation land. An integrated reconstruction today requires 500,000 hectares of irrigated slag or 21.5 percent of their total fund. There are 210 rural areas that need immediate protection from submergment and warning. These volumes are included in the integrated land-melioration and environmental improvement programme in 2001, 2005 and the forecast by 2010, which was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 16 November 2000 No. 1704. According to local executive authorities, there are 1,228 rural areas in Ukraine, where there are more than 800,000 people who, for natural and technological reasons, partially or fully use imported inequitable water. With a view to remedying this situation, the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers, since November 23, 2000 No. 1735, approved a comprehensive programme for the first-line provision of rural areas using imported water-centralized water supply in 2001-2005 and forecasting up to 2010. The program will provide a centralized water supply to 848 locations with about 600,000 citizens, including 283 in 2001 - 2005.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u22	Sergey Osika, National Authority MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u23	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. First of all, Gregory Vasilovich, I thank you for a very meaningful report interesting and I want to ask you a few questions. First question. Everyone knows that there have been so many catastrophic events in Europe lately. Is there a similar threat to Ukraine, and what is being done in this direction? That's the first question. The second question. What territories in Ukraine are subject to abrasions, and what is also being done in this direction? And the last more specific question. What is done to improve the supply of drinking water in the city of Cremenchug? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u24	Thank you for asking. First question. I believe that everyone is witnessing that in early 2003, Europe suffers from completeness. As far as the situation in our country is concerned, according to previous estimates of experts as well as hydrometer, we have done so, so far there is no such threat in Ukraine. What are we doing? First of all, we're looking at this situation, we're doing this together with the observatories that apply to these regions. This includes preparing populations, preparing villages and means in these situations so that they are not. But it's projected, as I've already said, that Ukraine is still unforeseeable. As far as the abrasions are concerned. So in fact, in our country on the coasts of the Azov and the Black Seas, the coasts are subject to abrasions. I remember that about 2,000 miles [2,360 km] of coastline exposed to this abrasion is nearly 60 percent of the entire coastline. Why did this happen? First of all, it depends on technological and natural phenomena, but it depends a lot on the management of our own. Hence, a number of measures are needed today, in our view. What are they? If the brothers, for example, share the same Crimea, only the beaches of Crimea require beach material about a million and a half feet [1.5 million m] of cubic beach material. But it's not enough today. That's why I'm here. We are said to have dealt with this issue and there are measures to improve this situation. This is primarily the preservation of the Black Seas and the Azova Seas by taking steps to strengthen the shores, other measures, rational construction of buildings, then the non-exporting of sand and so forth. So this situation, as we know, is what we're working on. As for the third question, I would like to say that today the Ministry of Emergency Situations is really working on improving operational action on the impact. I mean, as there are shortcomings in work, and we want to do it in 2003, as they say, closer to the people, so that people can feel the impact of the Ministry of Emergency Situations on specific situations that might happen in our country than citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u25	Shibko, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u26	Gregory Vasilovich! Quickly, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. You have two questions. First. In your report, you said more about natural phenomena about floods and so forth. At the same time, though, you have been shown that technology is important. I mean, submerged from large businesses. I mean, like power stations and stuff. So today, in Dnipropetrovska GES, the formerly famous Dniproprovska GES, who today is dumping the helm with water, and all the surrounding areas are already flooded, and today it's a big problem for this region. What's going on about this is I'd like to hear it. That's the first one. And the second. On one occasion, the president, while in the flood, while on Zakarpatta, was inadvertently referring to the question of what would he do about it? He said, "Well, there'll be Hungarian specialists involved, and Slovak, and so on. And this recognized a certain attitude on the part of the interested ones in Hungary and thus similar to the respective territories. So I'd like to ask you what part of Ukraine is in solving these issues? How are foreign experts involved, and what is done to make Ukraine more influential in solving these problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. Well, I'll start with the second question. Lately, in connection with the events that took place both in Zakarpatta and Hungary and in Slovakia between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and these states, and with the Ministry of Emergency Situations and the interested government authorities of these countries, which you have called, there has been fruitful cooperation in improving the situation in the region. What does it conclude? This cooperation is that, first of all, we exchange information, we negotiate. We have been told that there is an understanding of both our territory and the territory of these nations. We're monitoring. Then we will inform you that when the waters may be in their territory, they will go to our territory to predict the situation in advance. Thus, such work will continue to grow. As for the first question, I would like you to answer that question, Mr. Horev, head of the State Department of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u28	Let's do that. We have a procedure. When the question comes to him, he will answer, gather, and answer all the questions. Now, here's a question from the People's Deputy Melnikov, the People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u29	Can I ask you a question? None. Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u30	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Question: "How much of the budget allocated over the last five years to the population of the Carpathians for the elimination of the consequences of the natural disaster has not been used for the purpose?" Well, that's what I was talking about in the manual. During the period 2001-2002, the region received EUR 206 million from the State budget, plus 1 million dollars from local budgets. Humanitarian and charitable assistance was received for 55 million dollars. A total of 2 million 953 thousand,600 dollars, including unearmarked and illegal spending of 1 million 438 thousand,500 dollars, were found to be financial irregularities. In addition, financial violations of humanitarian and charitable assistance have been set at 5 million 878 thousand dollars. In the Forest Administration, the area of financial discipline violations is allowed for 1 million dollars. The Zacarpathogosp management's cost of doing the work was exceeded by a total of 360,000 dollars. To rebuild, repair, and purchase housing, 421 thousand dollars were used. In order to restore municipal property, it has been found to be illegal and not for the purpose of using 367 thousand dollars. At this time, financial distortions of budgetary discipline have been compensated, reinstated, and eliminated, i.e. a total of 2 million 760,000 dollars. Well, I've already said that some officials have been offered administrative strings and materials, 30 materials transferred to law enforcement agencies.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u31	Thank you. Frost, National Deputy Frost, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear Gregory Vasilovich! In the Zaporozhye region, there's a problem like this, and I'm being approached by the oblvodgoss, and I want to ask you, is there any way to solve it? The gas tank was cut off from the power supply, a pump station that protects several areas from floodwaters. And so they're asking, and I'd like to ask you, can you help us out, because there are two major pumps on the balance sheet? It's an easterly discount and the center of the discount collector. These pump stations are designed to protect the population from floodwaters and rainwaters. Can we, and please tell us, what needs to be done to help the district improve this situation? Because there's a state there, security is, but there's no electricity and that's why it's hard to protect today, despite the fact that if this year gives what it gave to the 97th, 98th year, the situation again in three areas -- Melitopolski, Yakimowski, Mikhailski will be very difficult in the Zaporozhye region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. Well, as for this particular question, I'd like to answer you the following way that we're going to deal with this situation, yes. And then in the Zaporozhye area, we're going to take the steps that it takes to recover, to survive this situation. So I promise you to figure it out and give you an answer more specifically in the working order. It's a written question. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. "What is the amount of damage caused to Ukraine by the destructive effects of floods, floods, the harmful effects of water in years of independence?" The total amount of damage caused by floods, floods, and water damage over the years is not estimated to be between 4 and 5 billion. That's right. The annual damage caused by submerging and flooding is 500 dollars per hectare. Annual social cost losses are estimated at over 19 million. That's right. Economic damage from floods 205 million The annual environmental damage is 77 million. That's right. Well, the flood in Zakarpat in 98 caused 810 million dollars in damages.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u34	National Deputy Suhi, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u35	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Gregory Vasilovich, by no chance today, the main array of questions concerns financing, rather, the order of financing these works. See, since 1997, there has been a decree by the Cabinet of Ministers to eliminate the effects of submerging the land of Dniprom, including in the residential area. The city of Zaporozhye. It is indeed a natural disaster when buildings, residential buildings, and roads are washed away. Some are made from the State Budget, the local budget, and the efforts of industrial enterprises. But in recent years we have been receiving letters in the city, particularly from the minister of ecology of then - Mr. Kurikin, about the fact that he does not know where these funds came from. Please explain how this decision is financed in 1997, since millions of dollars have already been allocated. If this work is not completed, there, about 1.8 million, all the funds that have been allocated before will be lost. It's wasteful.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u36	I get it. Thank you for asking. I'd like to say that, really, as far as 2001, funding was better put into the program, and these programs, I've already reported to you in my report, are financed through Minecoresources, State Guides, State Department, right? Not because of the Ministry of Emergency Situations. And I noticed this in my report that, in fact, funding, when it was better, worked, but in 2002, funding was worse. Because it's about po. In 2003, the State budget provides for better funding, and, as I have already stressed, the programme to be presented by the Government of the Supreme Council will also provide for all these questions regarding the implementation of the law that provides for the financing of all these programmes. So I think we're going to pay particular attention to this question that you asked. And once there's a large portion funded, we really have to finish these jobs, so we're going to figure out what they say, and we're going to get into these jobs so that they're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u37	National MP Matvienkov, European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u38	Thank you, Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Grigori Vasilevich, you have somehow addressed the problem of the Azov Sea. I would like to make your question more specific. The city of Mariupol is the largest industrial centre. 7 landslide zones, 6 submersible zones. For probably four or five years now, and the city's leadership, and the people's deputies are literally with their hands stretched out and begging, and they're asking for $5.8 million to stop the processes that are going on there today. Your opinion, at some point, we will put an end to the processes that are going on there and whether we can at least partially fund this against it. That's the first one. And the second question. In your view, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the strengths and weaknesses of the Ministry, and this is how you feel you should change your job, or do you feel that you should not change anything. How do you assess the Ministry's work to date? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u39	Well, the first question I really didn't have, they say, was about him today. Not only about Mariupol, but I mean, the coast of Asia, the Black Sea. I agree with you that there is little funding. But today, when we're tracking these processes, we can see very much that as a result of this kind of farming that is in some regions today, these processes are also complicated not only because we have little money but because we're not economical, as they say, we're doing business. That's what I've been underlining. As far as this particular question is concerned, five, eight million, well, first of all, as they say, as the minister put it like this. And if that's possible, I think, and this year there are more possibilities for funding to go to these abrasive processes that take place on the Azov Black Seas. Therefore, the question is, Let us turn around and improve the situation. As for the second question, what are the strengths, weaknesses of the Ministry of Emergency Situations? Well, first of all. The Ministry has been around for about six years. The strengths of which. Well, grief has taught the Department of Emergency Situations, as well as the government's support for solving the problems that have been put on it. I mean floods, other extraordinary situations. So there's an experience that's gained in our country, and there's an experience that we've used in countries like Hungary, Turkey, India, Slovakia. We helped out there, too. But you asked the right question. As a minister today, I think that, well, the weak side is material and technical security. But it's not like today the Ministry of Emergency Situations is unable to react quickly, quickly, I emphasize the extraordinary situations that happen every day, every once in a while in our country. So I have specific proposals, and they are being considered by the leadership of the state today. And if you make a decision, the social impact, I think you'll feel in the near future from what the Ministry of Emergency Situations will do much better, because, as they say, there will be conditions for us to be able to help our citizens quickly in every emergency situation. That's the plan of action, I've made it clear to the leadership of the state and to the Prime Minister, and to the President, they've supported me, we're waiting for a decision today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u40	The Veretennikov People's Deputy, a faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, the Hard Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u41	Dear Minister, Victor Weretennikov, 28th District, Dnipropetrovsk. Today, we are discussing issues that have already taken place in Ukraine. What is done to prevent these disasters? I want to give you an example like this. The city of Dnipropetrovsk has a strategic biannual bridge. And in 2001, they gave a little bit of money there, in 2002. And so I left Dnipropetrovsk yesterday, three times the cities don't work, the jobs started, and that's right in the center of town, it's strategic. There's a railway bridge, and there's a car. What is being done to prevent and to prevent such disasters as we now have many in Ukraine? And specifically on the bridge in Dnipropetrovsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u42	First. I said to some of the questions you asked, what's going on in our country at all. Well, for example, if you have Dniprovsky's stunt, you know, there was a critical situation there, and in 2002, there was a hydrotechnological survey, 15 million pennies invested, and today's situation improved with regard to Dniprov's stunt. What is happening in the state today? That's what I told you. First of all, there is the monitoring of all these situations, the study. It's different. We're said to be working with the governments in a direction that can be done at the state level that can be done at the local level. As far as the bridge is concerned. I don't know, I can honestly tell you for the first time, so they say I'm going to write it down, I'm going to take care of it, and I'm going to give you an answer on this bridge in Dnipropetrovsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u43	A written question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u44	Committee on Construction, Transport, and Communications Questions. By what means will the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine finance the restoration of the Dniper gateways to regulate the watercourse? Under the budget programme, support for the operation and security of inland waterways and waterways by the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2003 approved funding of 14 million $750,000, including total expenditure of 11 million 450,000. Capital transport companies, institutions, organizations - 3 million 300,000. At the expense of the specified funds, it is planned to provide 6 locks with lighting, non-lighting, and 35,000 cubic metres of land. [[It's 2 thousand 903 kilometers of waterways.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u45	Here's the next one. The next letter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u46	The European Choice Group of Deputies. "What actual control is being carried out in Ukraine over deforestation? What are the actual measures taken to increase Ukrainian forest plantings in the regions?".. As far as deforestation is concerned. The special use of forest resources during cuttings is carried out with a special permit issued by government forest authorities on the basis of the limits imposed. Each year, the amount of wood used for cutting is set up by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. According to the Forest Code, the accounting standard for the annual production of wood in the order of cuttings is calculated during forest management and after agreeing with the local authorities on the application of the DR and approved by the Ministry of Ecology for each permanent forest user. Forest management is now smaller than the logging industry, accounting for 80 to 90 percent on average. As for logging and logging, every second hectare of forest is created artificially in Ukraine. As a result, forest - covered areas in Ukraine and wood reserves are growing steadily. More than 100 seedlings and heat farms grow more than 300 million pieces of garden material each year. Lands that are not suitable for agriculture include 1.4 million acres [1.4 million ha] of anti - erosion plantations, of which 150,000 acres [150,000 ha] on the banks of small rivers and ponds. In addition, 440,000 acres [440,000 ha] of forest ranges have been planted, protected by over 13 million acres [13 million ha] of arable land.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u47	National Deputy Kalinchuk, faction of the Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear Grigory Vasilovich, more than 30 percent of the territories in Odestina are made up of land that sinks annually, loses businesses, loses products, but the main thing is that people suffer, their buildings are destroyed, their property is inconvenient. I personally receive dozens of letters asking for help. Especially do many complaints come from residents of the villages of Ishmaelski, Frunzensky, Shirayev, and here are complaints: some to provide assistance so that there is no submergment, and others to the absence of drinking quality water. However, there is no way to resolve these sinister issues, and there are no funds for these purposes in rural, rural, and district budgets. As you can tell, none of the many programs you've accepted have been executed due to a lack of funding. Is it not better to approve one but real program, provide it with material and financial resources, and make it happen?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u49	I got it. Answering your question is really a problem all over the country, and I called the numbers you heard today. You can't say that nothing is done, but I agree with you very much that little is done. For example, the water protection program in 2001-2000 did little: 27.6 kilometers of river russels regulation, dams of protection, hydrotechnical buildings, but this is really small. Although the program provided 55 million dollars in 2001, it was funded by 23.9 million dollars. As for one program, the program itself, in my opinion, is a good program, yes, it predicts everything. Indeed, it takes effort and government to which we are targeted, as well as local authorities, to make more effective use of the funds that are there, and in the main directions of this activity. So I think that these programs need to be implemented, but more actively by the government, which is what we intend to do in 2003, because we all know that it's much easier to warn people that it's much easier, than when these floods, floods, well, once the disaster comes, then it's much worse to do it, and it's much more expensive to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u50	Billorus Oleg Grigorovich, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u51	Please give the word to Eugene Ivanovich Kirilchuk. Kirilchuku's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u52	Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u53	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Your Honor, I am very sorry to inform you today, because today you are a reporter for the Cabinet of Ministers, i.e. a minister of a broad profile -- you are both for irrigation and for drying up, and for the seas and for rivers and for wildlife and for money. You're trying to sort out all these problems. I can say in advance that I should have reported here no less than the vice-premier who is responsible for all these problems. For example, I would like to ask you a question. Tell me, has the Cabinet of Ministers’ reserve fund been used to deal with natural disasters for the past three years? You can't give me an answer. Because every time we're spending Government Day, they're setting someone up instead of telling either the prime minister or the vice-premier, or these hearings don't give anything. I'm sorry, it's not up to you, but if you have the ability to answer for the contingency fund, it's the money for the trouble that we reserve every year 300 million. How are they used? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u54	Well, I did this problem -- use of funds -- in my report, they say, I did, and on the question, I specifically called the numbers of those that were set out to deal with this disaster specifically in the Western region, in Carpathian, if that's what you would call it. And I've been calling specific numbers that relate to violating their use. I'm talking about breaking the budget process and using it for these purposes. So more specifically, I think it can't be a mystery, and I'm going to prepare for you and I'm going to write you down on every single ruble, where any of the Reserve Funds went where how many bracelets went to for realization in this region where you asked the question. It's no secret to anyone. I think that's all there is to know for the people's deputies, and in that analytical paper that we gave you, it's very, very much said, it's a normal application of these funds to these problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u55	Ivan Fedorovich Kuras, if you please, the faction of the region of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u56	Dear Gregory Vasilovich, please tell us how ready your ministry is for a really extreme situation involving possible evacuation of people, well, from floods and so forth? The situation, you see, in Europe is unpredictable, the flood situation. Winter is unforeseeable from this point of view. I mean, from the point of view of providing possible evacuation sites, transport facilities, medical supplies, basically a material and technical base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u57	I got it. Well, really, it's a very important direction in the work of the Ministry of Emergency Situations. And you've said a few things about what to do. Well, first of all, as I said, there's experience in the Ministry, although it's said to be acquired on the mountain of our country, but it's about preventing such situations. Today the Ministry is primarily investigating these processes at all levels, and I mean in western areas where there is trouble, there is monitoring. Secondly, in conjunction with the government, and in each administration, there are technogenic commissions, as well as evacocommissions, which provide a plan of action for such situations. What does that mean? People's warnings, evacuations to one city or another, entire means of transport. In addition, there is training. With regard to the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the units that are in that region, the special plans that have been made, have been warned, and are now virtually working on such cases. So I'm sure whatever it is, but today the Ministry is ready for the extraordinary situations that may be in the areas where you said.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u58	Georgi Vasilovich, please have two written questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u59	The Committee on Construction, Transport and Communications: "How do we use the Kabmin reserve fund to eliminate the effects of flood damage, floods of protection of population sites, national-owned objects. Water damage?" Well, that's what they asked. Since 1996, the Ministry of Economy has prepared and submitted 41 draft regulations to the Cabinet of Ministers, according to which more than 18 million dollars have been allocated to the regions and various sectors of the economy of Ukraine. At the same time, it should be noted that the identified source of funding is not able to solve all problems, so we need to work at all levels of authority to fully implement, to implement clearly the legislation on emergency prevention and protection of populations and territories against their negative consequences. The Communist Party MP, the question is, "What is the need for capital investment in general and how much time it takes to halt the negative effects of water support and then return it to its normal, optimal state. The total amount of funds required to implement the integrated land-melioration programme and to improve the environmental condition of irrigation and droughts in 2001-2005 and forecast by 2010 amounts to 903 million dollars. Including the protection of 210 rural areas, 63 million dollars. During 2001 - 2002, these measures were not funded by the State Budget. And the year 2003 Mineconomy does not provide for the allocation of centralised capital investments for this purpose. As part of the programme, only immediate work on the reconstruction of the main North Crimean canal is planned to be funded from the State budget, amounting to one and a half million dollars. With regard to the complete halting of the negative effects of water support, this can be answered only after the program is fully acknowledged.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u60	National Deputy Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u61	Vladimir Bondarenko, please give the floor to a member of our faction, Mikola Catherinechuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u62	Turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u63	Thank you, Vladimir Dmitrovich. Mikola Dmitrovich Katerinczuk, Our Ukraine Kalinowski, Hmelnicki and Cosatinsky. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. You know, I was very surprised that in your report I heard some very nice words about responsibility. And you know, I'd like to ask you. Please tell me if you are ready to ask the last item in your action plan that if this action plan is not implemented, you are ready to resign. Because I see an honest, principled and honest person who really wants to understand the problem. That's the first one. It's different. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine passed a decree of July 29, 2002, which has not yet been implemented. And I would like to know right now who is responsible for failing to do so? Also, when can residents of the Cosyatian Kashperovka region say that they have received the help they have been waiting for more than six months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u64	Well, the first question is what you said about responsibility. As for the Ministry of Emergency Situations, if I fail my job, I am willing to resign. No questions asked. As for the second, it's, you say, yeah, really good programs, and I stressed it, they're huge programs. And the trouble is, these programs weren't because the government didn't want the previous government or the government couldn't, but I think you should, I don't think it's worse for me, you know, the economic possibilities of our state. And the trouble is that these programs, which I think are very good, but they're not done just because there wasn't enough funding. So this was the case. That's how I would answer your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u65	National MP Swatkov, People's Rule Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u66	Please pass the word to Gurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u67	Dear Grigori Vasilevich, well, if you follow closely the feedback and questions of all MPs, it can be said that the first time you played correctly, you make an impression of a solid, determined person. And now the main thing is to back it up. There's a technologically dangerous area called Krivbass. So in terms of technogenic loads, he has no equal in Mariupola or in Dnepropetrovsk or in Dneprodijnsk, this accumulation literally for centuries. But there's only one disadvantage, it's mined water. And here we are talking about the Hersonian region, the Nikolaev region, here's where the flute and the Krivbassa are. Sailing waters drop into Ingulatz every year. This is where all the trouble comes from. That's why I have a question. Here are 15 million allocated to this work in the previous budget, and in the past, there is now a separate line this year. If we don't let that money go, because we've allocated only 7 million last year, you're going to have to do Krivbass very and very substantively. I therefore wish as a question and a wish. Nevertheless, pay special attention to this highly dangerous area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u68	I agree with you in this area. Because there was trouble on the Mine yesterday, one of the workers died on the mine. This problem is known, it's the Horn of the Curve, the Yellow Waters are also dangerous. And I agree with you that we should pay attention to that. So as the budget is going to be implemented in 2003, I think the government will take all the measures that are most painful in our country to minimize this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u69	Gregory Vasilovich, written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u70	Deputy faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. In recent years scientists have found that the pollution of deep groundwater horizons, which is a strategic water supply of the state, and in some regions, is now the only resource of quality drinking water. What measures are already being or are being taken to halt these dangerous processes, and what kind of capital investment, particularly in the 2003 State Budget, is geared towards addressing these challenges? The pollution of deep underground waters in Ukraine is mainly observed in mining areas on separate coastal areas of the Black Sea and the Azova Seas. In order to prevent the negative effects of mining activities, the Minecores develops a comprehensive program to improve the ecological status of the coal - mining regions, which is scheduled for consideration by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Thursday, 2003. To prevent the pollution of deep horizons, groundwater in coastal areas by geological enterprises. resources are being largely worked to recognize the critical limits of groundwater mining in coastal areas. At the same time, Nadra Ukraine is developing a comprehensive programme to expand the use of groundwater for drinking water. The deadline for submitting the project of the selected comprehensive programme to the Cabinet of Ministers in Ukraine is 4th quarter of 2003. At the same time, it should be noted that the constant funding of work from groundwater monitoring in 2002 has been financed by 6 percent of the total expenditure provided for by the State Budget Act, resulting in the loss of the monitoring network, which has decreased from 7 thousand 400 to 3,000 observation points in 1991. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u71	National MP Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u72	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Gregory Vasilovich, because you are Vasilovich, I want to welcome you. Today, the government has assigned you to report, and you are associated with the celebration of Basil. I think it's time to celebrate. And I have this question. Gregory Vasilovich, it's clear that you can't answer for everything, both of you, and for you today, the requirements may be limited. But please tell me, Zacarpatska, Ivano-Frankivska, Lvivska, other areas of flood protection have been allocated by the government. Tell me, where did the money go that only 7-10 percent of the people in this area? Crimea, Odessa, Herson, Mikolayev, Zaporozhi district, and others. Of the 35km planned water supply system, only 5 were built. 30 kilometers is not built. Costs. Where did they go? Do you have such information on this subject? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u73	Well, when I was preparing, and I was seriously preparing for a report on the Supreme Council, and that's, they say, my first, although I've been on the Supreme Council for quite a while, not once in the position I was in before, I was interested in these figures. I'd like to say that, first of all, there was a lot of trouble in the Zakartat region, but there was a lot of it done and I called it, I mean not only in the money, but also in the houses and in the roads that were. And when I was preparing, I was interested in where the funds went, and all the documents that I was able to find, and they say the information, all the funds that were allocated from the Cabinet of Ministers reserve fund, they went after the appointment. But aside from the funds that I was responding to, what was a violation from both the side and the local authorities, I was able to report today. If that doesn't satisfy you, I promise you what they say I'm going to do in the line of work, and I'm going to report in writing or orally where these funds went in that direction that you asked the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u74	Please, you have a written question there, don't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u75	Committee on Social Policy and Labour. How are government measures related to the warning of floods, floods, and the elimination of their effects, including flood protection of populated areas and lands? How the government handles this important problem and what has been done so far, I have informed you. In order to implement the measures envisaged by the comprehensive water protection programme for rural areas, agriculture in 2001-2005 and the 2010 forecast for Ukraine's government budget in 2001, expenditure of 42 million were projected at 240 thousand, in fact at 33 million; in 2002 there were 37 million; in fact, there were 3 million. You see how the funding was. In 2002, a total of 20 million people were expected to be allocated from the State budget, and a total of 1 million were actually allocated to the Tis Zacarpathian River Basin. Thus, it can be said that the main factor behind the slow solution to the problems of protecting populations and territories from the harmful effects of water is extremely inadequate financing, and the main point, I reiterate, is that the cost of these floods does not refer to the list of protected articles in the State budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u76	National Deputy Babourin, Communist faction, please. That's it. It doesn't, does it? Then please, Michael Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear Gregory Vasilovich, I have a question. You could call it what. Here, look here, here I am. What ratio, what share of the cost, which and where, was allocated to purchase domestic equipment, programs and so on, and what is to buy imported equipment? What is the ratio of domestic and import equipment and the corresponding cost? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u78	Well, I can't answer that question properly because I haven't studied this problem, I mean not what I haven't studied, but I don't have those numbers. So I promise you to ask around and report in the working order.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u79	Yes, thank you. Unfortunately, time is running out. Olga Hinzburg, last question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u80	Thank you, thank you. Dear Gregory Vasilovich, I'm sorry, it's been such an honor to ask you a question right now, but I have such a question. I literally worked in the Shastka district in the Shastkin district. And when I arrived in the village of Enchantress, this is such a Shastkin district, there's a question hanging in the water. For example, we are now talking about these disasters and flood - related problems, and we have a question hanging there with some inequitable drinking water. And last year the government invested 150 grand in the budget. For this village to have any water to drink. I've been working with the last Cabinet of Ministers, and I've been doing this. And funding in this water, and this is a disaster for the village of the Vrhaziivka district of Shastkin, I can't solve it. Please tell me if your area of work that you are leading today is related to solving such a problem where a catastrophic drinking water problem is occurring in the entire inhabited area. Please tell me. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u81	Thank you. Well, if you've been listening, both in the report, and in the answers, I've been touching this problem. In our country, I used to call it 800,000. The population is said to be free of high-quality drinking water. So there's a program that's foreseen by the government for 2003, first of all, I don't specifically mean this population point, I didn't know about it, it's fair, but in general this problem for 2003 is defined as a priority, because I've stressed that in many regions of our country, there's no drinking water. And this is in most rural areas or somewhere near the cities. That's why it's on the program. And when I was preparing, I saw it and I was interested in Mr. Horivi, with Minnecoresurs, to give this problem a priority, as it's clear that people without drinking water can't. So what I'm saying is, specifically on this population point, I'm going to figure it out, as they say, and I'm going to give you a specific answer. In fact, this will be a priority not only for the Ministry but for the entire government in terms of drinking water supply. You should come.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u82	Yes, thank you, Gregory Vasilovich. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Anatoly Volodymyrovich Tolstouchov for the report, for the committee's co-information, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u83	Dear Head, distinguished government officials, respected colleagues! I would like to point out that for the first time in the history of Ukrainian power during a very short term, three times in the Supreme Council, together with the government, we are returning to environmental problems. Yesterday there were parliamentary hearings, today Government Day, and in February we will be dealing with another pressing painful problem — the problem of submerging, which affects one fifth of Ukraine’s territory, and the economic damage each year accounts for more than two billion dollars. I mean, it's both symptomatic and symbolic. Symptomaticly, in the light of the events that are taking place in Europe, we have every day the opportunity to observe natural disasters, and symbolically because for the first time that the Supreme Council and the government are working in the first year, they have no reason to blame each other, but there is a need, an urgent need to jointly plan their activities, work and share responsibility. That is why I think that the consideration of all these issues at parliamentary hearings and the days of the government will allow the first steps to be taken in order to work more effectively and effectively in this direction. I would like to remind everyone that this year Ukraine will accept an international conference of ministers on environmental issues in Europe, and I would like to draw the attention of the government to the fact that this work needs to be stepped up in order to prepare as best possible for such a responsible action, and to prepare for it, not to take such steps as today, for example, is proposed to reduce the Ministry's budget by 100 million, which means that Ukraine does not, in fact, need a geological service that will, of course, make up for this issue. I would like to point out that 10 years ago Ukraine was a leader in environmental legislation, particularly in the SND. Today we can testify that we need to go back seriously to the very legislative work in this direction, and I want to say that the All-Ukrainian Environmental League, the Ministry, the Law Institute initiated the development of the Environmental Code, which is essential to our country today. I think it's also going to be our work together in this direction. Experience proves that our main problem is that we constantly plan and then fail to fulfill our obligations. This is a disease of Ukrainian authority when we make decisions, then report, and then the Court of Auditors checks and finds that the authorities consistently fail to carry out their obligations to humans. I don't think it's necessary to convince us that nature can't stand this game with itself anymore, because it can't be played in the soles or in the soles of Chapaev with it anymore, and it's not happening in the same Europe. And for the sake of being able to address these problems in a complex way, I think that the President, especially after an international conference is held, or maybe even on the eve, could sign a decree and 2004, would be a year of environmental protection for Ukraine, like this year of culture, and I think that's how we've defined the budgetary priorities of environmental issues, and many of the issues that have been raised today, and they'll still be taken off because they would be the basis for solving them. I want to go back to what I started talking about. We will have another parliamentary hearing in February. And I didn't want all of us to do it in one scenario, to talk again about the relevance of the problem of submerging. And how it is financed and underfunded. I think it would be possible to build this work differently and to focus on testing, on monitoring, both the authorities and at the regional level and in particular the prosecutor's office. By completing my speech and deliberately moving away from criticism to the government, I would like once again to say that just working together, a shared responsibility will give us the opportunity to carry out the tasks that lie ahead. Today's speech by the minister, I want to thank him for his principles and openness, provides an opportunity for the executive, the legislative authority and the public to work more successfully in this direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u84	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the discussion of this issue. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Recorded. Then explain it, please. Nestor Schufric, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, prepare Demjochina. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u85	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues. The problem of the destructive effects of the waters, and in many cases just the catastrophic consequences of floods, floods and submersions, has long become a national party's strong belief in the Socialist Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I'm sorry for the game of words, but dry statistics on this wet issue make you shudder. A country that is not without reason proud of its natural resources, its fertile soils, is now forced to say that nearly 24 percent of its territory is the area of natural and technological submergment, that one third of its population is affected by floods and floods. As for individual regions, the threat to human life is already at stake. There is much to be said about the need for complex measures that, if not corrected, at least improve the situation. You can and even need to take appropriate programs. They work in Ukraine, by the way, but unfortunately, good intentions are shattered by lack of funding. It is the underfunding that contains the little efficiency of the announced programs. A few specific examples. Zacarpathian and Ivano-Frankiv region. Natural disasters in 1998 and 2001 cost over 1 billion dollars. In the Zacarpathian region, the total cost of rehabilitation work was 89.6 million dollars, and in 2002 nearly 11 million dollars were funded. In the region, programs are approved by decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, such as the relocation of citizens from homes in active areas of shifting processes. According to the summary table, about 50 million dollars should be funded at the expense of the State Budget, and exactly 47.3 million dollars should be financed. In fact, 10 million were funded in 2001, 2.9 million dollars in 2002. The faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine has come up with concrete proposals to foresee in the 2003 budget a minimum amount of subsidies to eliminate the effects of natural disasters in the areas concerned: [[united]] Zacarpatski -30, Ivano-Frakiv -10, 10 and 5 respectively. There is a comprehensive programme of anti-removal measures in the Chernobyl region, 1999-2005. If 53 percent of the planned funds were funded in 1999, only 7 percent were funded in 2002. We can't avoid the problem of the Cremenchuke watershed. To this day, fast - paced work is needed 30 miles [40 km] of coastline. But first of all, it's 22 kilometers. The MP's faction of united Social Democrats has deliberately decided on today's Government Day to stop at specific regional problems. They are certainly a reflection of the processes that are taking place throughout the nation. We are convinced that it is necessary to draw conclusions that simply require life and to ensure that all the work described above is financed in full. First of all, we feel that all the funds that come into the State Budget from the congregation for special use should be directed in an orderly manner and only to water management. And we certainly have to scrutinize where the budget money is going. KRU, the Court of Auditors should monitor the matter personally, and law enforcement authorities should intervene if necessary. I am convinced that we will not stay away from this very important problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u86	Vladimir Demyohin, People's Rule Group. Prepare Yuri Carmazin. Dear colleagues! Please follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u87	Vladimir Demehin, 184th District, People's Landing MP. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Members of the government! The power of natural phenomena and the magnitude of their destructive actions from year to year are increasing and experts believe they will increase in the future. In Ukraine, if there are more than 60,000 rivers in the Territory, life-threatening hydrological phenomena are particularly dangerous both in time and in space. In the territory, for example, the Herson area is only about 400 million cubic metres of total artificial water. The Kakhov reservoir is 18 kilometres square. It is not surprising that flooding processes have been developed in the territory of the Hersonian region. Protecting against their destructive actions was primarily a major problem in the field of water management. There is a huge problem of flood protection in the Zakarpat region today, and we have this problem every year. How can we deal with these issues if they lack the minimum resources planned, but their allocation, for example last year, is only 10 per cent, and they amounted to only 6 per cent for Zakarpaty. What effective measures can be discussed in such funding? Let me give you just one example of how difficult it is to achieve even the minimum amount of work planned. A year ago in order to address the accumulated economic social problems in the Herson region in a focused way. A visiting meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers was held on the ground. It resulted in an order of 19 April. Among other things, it was decided to provide resources to protect against the submergment of the village of Zámenka Belozerski district of only 173,000 rubles. My long-term correspondence with the Ministry of Finance, the Treasury, was required in order for these funds to eventually be made available to the perpetrator of the work of the Darievsky PIC. And it is not certain that without such a parliamentary escort, the task would have been met at all. Such activities have long become common to the people's deputies and are necessary for the successful resolution of public affairs. Once again, it is not desirable to speak of the non-civilization of all of this and of the fact that government decisions must be implemented without further follow-up. In assessing the concrete measures taken to protect against the destructive effects of water in recent years, it should be noted that they are insufficient and require additional intervention by both the Kabmin and the local authorities. The practical lack of innovative proposals in the area under consideration is evident, and the inadmissibility of these proposals is regrettable. Among them, I would like to mention the application of the substance-based technology of the permazim group, which has been tested in both Herson and Kiev. Finally, the proposals of our parliamentary group. We invite the Government to take note of the report. Second. Full implementation of medium- and long-term planning mechanisms in the areas of population activity in selected sectors of the economy and in large areas of increased risk. This function should be performed by the forecasting service established in the CDM, and this service should become the basis for the establishment of a public forecasting system. Next. Ensure that flood and flood management activities are fully funded. And to include new technologies in the Government's programme for economic, social development in flood control and submerged management. The coordination of all efforts and work in this area is proposed to be entrusted to the CDM. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u88	Yuri Carmazin, please, the faction of our Ukraine. Prepare John Mihowich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u89	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear government! The noble people of Ukraine! The problem that is being addressed today is the national security of the state. The fact that today the minister, and he's a military man, said that we recognize his crisis, is a quote from the minister's minister, shows that there was to be either a prime minister or the prime minister's first vice minister here on the rostrum. Have you noticed what materials have been distributed to us so far? But I would like to draw your attention to those materials that are given not to this day, but to yesterday's meeting. And in those materials, we would see real numbers and see real conclusions. I quote what was written yesterday at the signature of Prime Minister Janukovic. "The annual failure of programmes and measures approved or approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by the central executive authorities, district and local administrations has become a normal norm." This was written by the prime minister of Ukraine, not me, George Carmazin. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the programs mentioned here are not executed. Of those programs that, for 2001-2005, more than 11 billion dollars were to be funded, were actually funded about 3 percent of the planned amount. I would like to draw attention to what the public is shouting about today and the article “The Future of the Ukrainian Forest — Is There a Cause for Optimism? ”".. This is where they write about Lutsk. Yesterday, I accepted a delegation from Cherkashina. Now in the Ivano-Frankiv region of Zakarpatta, I'm going to the government, to the Prime Minister, to the President, stop the round trip, stop the export of the semi-manufacturers! Stop! I'm talking to those deputies who went through for the money they stole from the woods. There's some in here! Stop it, people good!Oh, my God! For $400 or $500 per cubic meter, you're selling oak abroad! You're making money here!Oh, my God! Isn't that a problem?Oh, my God! Then where did the flood come from? I say stop Mayor Odessa Ruslan Bodelan! Sold out all the parks, sold out sanitariums. I call it the Department of Defense sanatorium, the professor's office, part of the sanatoriums of war invalids, sold -- the Philatov Clinic, the Arcadia sanatorium, the Chuvirin sanatorium, the Odessa sanatorium, the Ukraine sanatorium, and then the landslides. And then we're going to put the minister out of emergency and talk about preventing an emergency. The problem is much broader. The problem is that the Carpathian forests also have 72 grand cut off. Ha forest, 11 percent of the entire forest-covered area. And it's 22,000. He's gone completely. These are the problems that arise. And the problems are that today's research work on the environmental recovery of the Dniepra pool was not funded at all last year. The question is, in the defense of national sovereignty, where Romania flooded us, where we went to a gold mining company called Aura, and to an enterprise in Bayouboursh. Did we address the International Court of Justice in The Hague? We did not turn to the International Court of Justice in The Hague!Oh, my God! And the other nations have turned! So this is a matter for the government!Oh, my God! It's a matter for the government, it's a matter for the President!Oh, my God! Let's save Ukraine together. God did not give us this earth to destroy it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u90	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u91	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, members of the government, colleagues, voters! On July 12th, on the same day of government, I argued that there was a need for real funding for flood management, the elimination of the consequences of catastrophic floods in the Carpathians. After that, there were numerous appeals to the President, the Kabmin from the district leaders, the platoon, the parliamentary requests, and the situation did not improve. Moreover, the injured landowners gradually remain alone with their woes, and unfortunately the state treats our distant affected land as stepmothers. Formally, it's like we've heard a lot of things today, and there are laws, and there are presidential decrees, and there are government programs and instructions, and there's reality? Last year, out of the required target programmes in the area -- 72.5 million dollars -- a funding limit of 24 million was set, 8 had been completed, and less than 10 percent had been funded before the plan. As a result, the debt is now about 7 million. This year’s budget provides for 10 million people — that is, after the liquidation of last year’s debt — virtually nothing will be left for unfinished work. The problem goes far beyond the environment. The incoherence of the government, the custodian of Minfin, the lack of local executive power feeds the land with social discontent and tension, the emergence of central trends weakening the international image of Ukraine and the trust of the world community, the government does not implement interstate agreements and commitments, nor its own decisions. I mean, his first actions since January 26, 1994, March 31, 1992, July 26, 2000. There is now a comprehensive flood protection programme developed by professionals at Tissa Basin 2002-2006 and forecast by 2015. Their goal is to protect almost 700,000 people in this area. Some 90 million dollars a year is needed to implement such measures. The state, the watersheds cannot find funds for this, international organizations are trying to help, but they are primarily counting on our participation. So if Kiev stands apart, there will be no action. The Carpathians need not hypocritical sympathy, empty promises during protocol visits, political speculation, but the real support of the State is finally about maintaining and developing a depressive territory, the status of Ukraine in Europe. Taking into account what I propose to the updated Cabinet first: to ensure that the approved programmes are finally implemented, to allocate the funds primarily to pay for the work done, even for part of the 300 million that have been allocated to the so-called state administration of the President's affairs. The other one. Getting seriously involved in the Budapest Forum. Third. Install active control over the use of the funds that are being allocated. I request the Attorney General’s Office to carry out a comprehensive, objective examination of the real causes and perpetrators of corruption, forest looting, mines, and other natural resources of Carpathian. The central authorities must finally provide tangible assistance to Zacarpathia in coping with the economic and social crisis. Because today, like in the bourgeois Czechoslovakian times of the 1930s, there are poverty, hunger, poverty, people who are full of promises, speculation, experiments. They await the tangible help of the central authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u92	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepare Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u93	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine As I prepared to consider the issue on today’s Government Day, I had been instructed by the faction to study in the Western region a situation that today threatens not only Ukraine but also the whole world. This is a global rise in water or water, and this is expected by scientists by 2010. I studied the situation in the agro-industrial complex of these areas. The horror that's being done in the country, but that's another topic for conversation, maybe tomorrow. Zacarpatska, Lvivska, Černivetska, Ternopilska, Ravennska, Ivano-Frankivska and Volinsk region have been working on more than seven programs that have emerged from the Cabinet of Ministers in recent years on this situation. I came to the conclusion for myself, and this was the conclusion of the Socialist Party factions. Strong belief: No one, no one in the country controls these issues. Governments are changing, and today it is impossible to ask anyone. Over the course of two years, 115 million dollars have been allocated to flood control programs. Only 25 percent were funded, and in 2000 only 7 percent of the plan was allocated. Let the citizens who live in these territories know that no one thinks of them. If a dam has broken down, there are broken houses, I'll make a statement like that, it's all planned. At least we understand that from the programs that are being adopted. If houses are being submerged and destroyed today, this too is planned. Why? Let's take one such direction, building dams. In Zacarpat, 20 million dollars were planned, and 1.2 million were allocated. Ivano-Franksky is 2.4 million, and 172 thousand dollars have been allocated. Chernobyl is 1.5 million, $113,000 allocated. If there's any trouble, everyone runs to you, the state won't leave you. As I was told on Volina, there was an uncle in the village: hypocrites in state uniforms. Ternopilska, Ravenska, Volinska region - one and a half million practically milled lands, about 60 percent of them, these systems are not working today. 800 settlements, I apologize, are being submerged, especially in the Plains, Volinsk region. In completing my speech, using that there is a minister of defense here, I want to address him on that point. In the Plain region, you passed on 18 pontoon bridges, give them to me, please don't sell them, because this is state property, this property belongs to people. There's no money in the territorial community to buy them out. And I'm still talking. Please tell me whether it is possible for the Ministry of Defense today to transfer helicopters to areas, emergency management, where it is necessary to do so. I think it should be done soon. And on the subject of the situation, I suggest that we create a temporary commission of the Supreme Council and study the situation on this subject, and we also need to assign the Court of Auditors to check the funds that are being allocated to these objectives so that we know where they are going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u94	Please, Yuri Solomatin of the order of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u95	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I would like to ask all those who speak to me strictly to observe the time limit, since there are so many things that have been written down and want to say what they want to say. All the previous minutes were four minutes and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u96	Anatoly Frost. Dear colleagues! Please listen to the invitation of the National MP. Prepare Volodymira Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u97	National Deputy Frost, 83 constituency, Communist faction. Dear Chairman! Dear members of the government! Dear colleagues! The problem that is being addressed today in the walls of the Supreme Council is very relevant, and it is also relevant to the Zaporozhye region. In our area, there were 102 villages and some 70,000 hectares of farmland in the summer of 1997 and in the spring of 1998 as a result of heavy rainfall. All of this has made living conditions and sanitation more difficult. About 19,000 acres [19,000 ha] of water was practically on the surface of the earth, submerged as a result of the destruction of buildings and the destruction of long - standing plants. It's made it more difficult to do spring-field work in the area. The population and the economy of the region were severely damaged. The submerged Melitopolski, Mikhailovsky, Wesseliv region of the Zaporozhye region, and the city of Molochánsk were particularly affected. I'll just give you an example like this. In the Mikhail district of Zaporozhye, 33 of the 48 population were submerged. A programme to eliminate the effects of submerged areas in the Mikhail region for the period 1998-2005 provides funds to eliminate the underflows of 75 million dollars. But these costs are year after year and come very and very little. The lack of funds in this area and in other areas, as a result of the state’s weak assistance, makes the state want much better. The area has developed a work programme to protect areas from water damage in 2001-2005 and forecast for 2010. By 2010 According to the above-mentioned programme, the regional management of irrigation and water management prepares each year a draft plan of conservation measures financed by the State Budget and approved by the State Committee on Water Management. But in 2002, after Zaporozhye County, a plan of conservation measures financed by the State Budget did not receive a penny of the projected funds. In 2003, Zaporozhye County is scheduled. Costs are projected to be 20 per cent lower than in 2000. How can this be understood, Reverend Gregory Vasilovich? Last year, a colleague of mine from Zaporozhye County, MP Mangul Anatoly Illich, addressed the government and Minchaes with the problem of building an interdisciplinary discount collector. There's a project made on an area of 8 million dollars, but the money for building this collector is still not being allocated. The construction of the collector will remove the threat of new submersions of Melitopolski, Wesselovsky, Mikhail district. And from that, I think everyone here understands, no one is insured. Asking the government to help solve this issue and to help the Zaporozhye Obłvodhospó solve the problem of energy supply of two large-scale pumping stations, which I spoke to Gregory Vasilovich in my question during his report. It would be desirable for the government to coordinate the work so that what is budgeted in the expenditure section of each year in the division of areas is done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u98	Vladimir Puzakov, please prepare Sergey Matviyenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u99	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine The question raised today on Government Day is one of the screamers. Of course, it is a great disaster, but nature does not remain in debt to those who destroy it. It's a hell of a lot more trouble when people die in front of you because of their indifference, asking for help, and you're helpless. This is the kind of emergency assistance that Powrzezkie Golovanowski of the Kyrovograd region is requesting. On December 27, I informed the Supreme Council of the terrible catastrophe that occurred in this village, and I thought that they would hear me and respond to the groan of human souls, but unfortunately this did not happen. And today I didn't think to speak on this issue, but in the morning, I got a call from a village that broke the heating, the sewage, the whole water supply system, and people don't know what to do. Today, more than 8,000 people lived in the village, and up to 30 percent of the population had been left to winter with relatives and acquaintances. Here, 2,000, 200 apartments are not burned at all, batteries, walls and ceilings are covered with inanes, raw materials and floss in apartments, people are wrapped in sheets all day long, their hands like pillows are reddish and red. Mortality in the village is terrible. And this is how people today live in a free, independent Ukraine. There's nothing to buy wood or coal, and the giant ferronickel combination is dead when the world's arena needs its produce, and for its citizens, heat and pay, and normal living conditions. In what words can these people be reassured today? How can they prove that the state cannot find the funds to start a combination and create normal living conditions there? But people say that when the President has to choose the right prime minister or the head of the Nutzbank, they only offer a vote in the Supreme Council of $400-450,000, and it takes $550,000 to repair the boiler room for the village of Pobuzek. Does the President or the Prime Minister not know where to get these 550,000 dollars? Perhaps Mr. Strong, the head of the Kirovograd Observatories, did not know that, although a few days ago they celebrated the day of the militia so proudly and in an envelope for everyone, they put a nice amount of green money on the very needy folk artist, even though only one Cobzon did not take the envelope and advised him to give it as humanitarian aid to the underdeveloped countries. It would have been better, Mr. Strong, for those greens to switch to the needs of the village of Pobuzkie. Agree with me that these people lose nothing and fear no one, they can leave the village at any time and walk to the walls of the Supreme Council and the government. In order for this to not happen, I am calling on the Government for a second time today to set up an immediate commission on which the Prime Minister must also enter to provide urgent assistance to the inhabitants of the village of Pobuzkie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u100	The People's Deputy of Matvienkov, the faction of the European Choice, to prepare Cassianov, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u101	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear colleagues! The problems that we are discussing today are specific in the Azova Sea Region. An alarming situation lies in the city of Mariupola, in a city with more than half a million inhabitants, where the largest metal industry in the country is located. Landslides, submersibles are common in the city and coastal areas are washed and flooded. Every year, landslides destroy dozens of buildings, and the city has identified the most dangerous areas infested with a total area of about 40 hectares. About 154 hectares from the submerged zone. They require immediate engineering protection. A certain cyclicality of landslides has been established. Negative processes are being intensified in 2002 and 2003 and coincide with eight and thirty-year cycles, creating very undesirable destructive resonances. The local authorities of Mariupol are taking measures to stabilize the situation and are engaged in engineering protection of the territory. For almost three years, however, the city of Mariupol has literally been painting $5.8 million from the Cabinet of Ministers. A bracelet from the Reserve Fund for urgent priority activities for the protection of territories and buildings. By letter of 12 July 2002, the Cabinet of Ministers authorized the ministries of the economy, finance, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Justice, the State of Vodvodhozu to consider the letter of the Mariuplians and to submit an agreed draft decision to the Cabinet of Ministers. This important issue, however, is said to remain unresolved. The threat to the normal lives of people, the fate of dozens of buildings, transport and engineering communications continues to exist. If we look at the budget and look at 2002, we'll look at the article 22, and the law has introduced the Cabinet of Ministers to allocate the costs of the State environmental fund to account for the allocation of $8.8 million. Decreased for activities defined by the State-wide programme for the protection of the environment of the Azov and the Black Sea. These include coastal reinforcements, engineering protection of the Territory. So what? The issue has not been resolved. The damage to emissions that today also require funding and a number of other issues could also be mentioned. Everyone here today was talking about funding. And I would like to sharpen a little bit, a little bit of attention, and say a few words on this very subject. Largest industrial region. Two metallurgical enterprises, a machine-building complex, a port, a region that gives the budget of Ukraine several billion grevens walk hand in hand. It was a long time before this issue was considered. Why is it that there is a situation where people, making millions of dollars for the country, smelling it, should literally paint out, so to speak, in the budget, the means to solve the problems that today arise in the region? Let us eventually move on to either the regional factor or create a method of deduction for environmental pollution that would allow us to use this money. Last but not least, I will ask that specific decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers be recorded in the decision to reconsider the Government's mandate of 33 of 2002 to allocate 5.8 million dollars from the Cabinet of Ministers' reserve fund to shoreline the work of the city of Mariupol. Second, in the preparation of the 2004 State Budget project, the expenditure of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources should be provided by a separate code and a line of funding for all the work provided for by the state-wide programme for the protection of the Azov and Black Seas. Thirdly, pursuant to the above-mentioned State programmes, the Cabinet of Ministers should develop its implementation for the Azov region, taking into account capital and current costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u102	Kasyanov National Deputy, non-factional. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u103	Sergei Cassianov, 37 constituency, non-fractional. Dear Head, distinguished government officials, distinguished national deputies! In the Dnipropetrov region, there was an extremely adverse ecological situation, primarily related to the violation of the hydrological regime of groundwater and surface waters caused by technological causes. In all areas of the area, the submerged submerged areas and the silhouettes have been dramatically intensified. If the sinking occurred in 1982 in the 221st village, about 699 settlements in the area of more than 28,000 hectares were submerged in January of this year. The destruction of lands belonging to water sources has led to their destruction and the loss of transportation capabilities, which have also contributed to submerged areas. Some 2.9 billion dollars are needed to carry out their protection work in the area. In the area of own funds, work is being done to warn and minimize the destructive effects of floods and floods, to protect population sites, national and economic sites, and land from the harmful effects of waters, but without the support of central government authorities, there will be no improvement in the environmental situation. With the aim of improving the ecological situation in the area, long - term programs have been developed to protect against the harmful effects of water in rural areas and to eliminate the effects of flooding in urban and rural areas. Under the Cabinet of Ministers decision of April 19, 2002, No. 551, and the financing of measures to improve the environmental and technological situation of the State budget for 2002 the area was provided for 4.2 million dollars. And there's only 200,000. Or 4.8 percent of the planned. We're left with no government funding for engineering to protect the territories, this is Topall-1, 2, 3. If you remember, the rise in groundwater contributed to the demolition of housing several years ago. The Apothecary Bank in Dnipropetrovsk, the protection of the Pavlovgrad and Dniprožinska areas from submergment, the reconstruction of the repository of radioactive wastes of the Dniprodjynyrynski Chemzad, and many other ecologically dangerous objects. In 2002, 30 environmental objects were employed in the area. In addition, last year, part of the funds were directed to conservation measures on rivers in the area. However, these costs are extremely short. It should be borne in mind, therefore, that the coming from special-purpose use of the Dnipropetrov region to the State Budget of 11 months 2002 reached nearly 50 million dollars. In 2003, the State budget provides for expenditure for the protection of settlements and rural areas from water damage of a total amount of 2.2 million dollars. Taking into account the limitations of local budgets as an additional source of funding for the disposal of submersibles can be payments for the collection of water from water objects that have a significant impact on the ecological environment in the region. Taking advantage of my opportunity to appeal to the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, according to the Ukrainian Water Code, was allocated 80 percent to 20 percent of the national and regional budgets. But since 2001, all 100 percent of the funds raised in the area have remained in the State budget. I'm asking you to keep some of the money in the area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u104	Yuri Solomatin, prepare Ivanch.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u105	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, let me immediately move to the proposal for a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and here we have a few points that I believe are recommended by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in part one of the 7 points that we can make 3. The first point is to make paragraph five, because the question that is most controversial is the financing of various programs. There's a lot of programs, and there's no money. So the fifth point that says that we're going to provide is we're going to continue to list the programs, we're going to fund them in full terms to make them the first. The second paragraph is to refer legislative proposals to. And to this point, add what goes to sub-paragraph 1. Develop a Civil Protection Code. Second, another document to develop on environmental safety. The third point is the creation of a state-wide fund of naturally technological security. Fourth, a coordinating body to create with the President. The sixth is to make the fifth in this list of improvements to the normative base and to complete this paragraph. That point, which was the seventh, would make it the third. And at this third point, do two units. How? Promote the revitalization of international cross-border cooperation in the protection of the Tis River Basin and the resolution of the issue. And over here, put a double to whom and two units to do. The first thing that follows is the text. First. Together with the neighbouring states, financing large-scale flood projects such as those that stabilize the water regime of the Carpathian region. And the other one. That's the money that's being offered. With regard to the possible causal link between the catastrophic floods in Europe and the HARP tests, it is a new American research program that has an impact on the ionosphere. And another offer. In the second chapter, where the Minnecores offer, and to undertake the following sub-item: together with the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, to study the possible causal link between the 2002-2003 catastrophic floods in Europe and Ukraine, in particular with the HARP test. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u106	National MP Ivancho, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u107	Ivan Ivancho, "Our Ukraine", Zakarpatsk district. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, national deputies, members of the government! The problem is the protection of the population, agricultural objects, and agricultural land from flooding. It was, and remains, the most acute for the Zakartat region. The battle against floods in the Tisa River River and the landslides has been taking place for more than 150 years, and all the time. has never been performed under different modes. In response to the need to overcome the disastrous November flood of 1998, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approved a new program of flood management in Zacarpathia on March 31, 1999, and again, due to limited funding, it was implemented by only 49 percent. At the same time, work has already protected the built - up areas from the following March 2001 flood: Mukachevo, Chorodejevo, Mižgorje, Dubov, and a number of other settlements. The adoption of a scheme and a program of integrated flood protection in the Tisa River Basin gave hope that more than 700 thousand people could be protected from floods and floods. But that was not what was supposed to happen. In the 2 government budget cabinet programs, only 2.3 million dollars were funded from 24 million dollars last year or 9.7 percent. Debt for work was almost 7 million dollars, including salary, pension taxes, and so on. The organization of the Ukrainian State Department is working well, and the inhabitants of the region are grateful. But they were rejected into eternal debt. For the sake of justice, it should be noted that with the renovation of the dwelling, it is being repaired. For this, the shepherds are grateful to all who have provided us with help. But the next question, apart from housing, is not moving forward. There's a program. Costs were not in the full range, but they were projected in the previous years of the State Budget as they were, unfortunately, no funding in the projected amounts. Every new state of government thinks "and maybe it'll pass us." Dear government officials! It won't go away! And people remember all the predecessors for their promises. The Swiss Confederation provided assistance to the Zacarpathian region with funds for the construction of hydrotechnic buildings. In Ukraine, the first tranche is 450,000 dollars last year. But they settled in a bankrupt bank called Ukraine. The former Prime Minister, Mr. Kinach, has given several assignments, but "a visa and now where it was." Costs not used. The Swiss don't understand, they address the Prime Minister personally. I am personally addressing Yanukovich today to resolve this issue. Remove the disgraceful mask from the face of the state of Ukraine. These are not the sums of money that need to be constantly reddened at meetings of European societies today, open the way to the next tranche! Because we don't have enough money, and we can't give advice to strangers. To conclude, despite the effects of many natural and technological factors, the adverse effects of floods in the Zacarpathian region would have been much smaller if programmes had been fully implemented to protect against the destructive effects of water, which had been repeatedly adopted by the government. The newspaper "Day" writes, describing the current flood in European countries, saying, "The flood breaks people's lives and changes the plans of European governments. In Germany, tax reform is postponed for the next year, and the Czech Republic is looking at plans to buy exterminators, and the money is needed for the victims." God forbid, and we understand how to get out of this situation that we have and, above all, the need to make our own decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u108	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Ah, Lechchenka? I'm sorry, Lechchenka. Vladimir Leschchenko, I'm sorry. There's no time left for Lechchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u109	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! The world suffers from water shortages, and in Ukraine, to a large extent, water is sufficient. But this benefits the anti - national bourgeois regime are becoming a dangerous threat to the people of Ukraine. During Soviet times, the State cared for water resources, regulation, and rational use. Significant costs were allocated for the construction and operation of hydrotechnical facilities. Many small rivers were regulated, and where exploitation was at a high level, national farming had a significant effect. As the spring began, people and farms were not afraid of flood damage, nor were they prepared in advance. Specialized ministries and departments, civil defense units, troops, colosophies, and other structures of the national economy were involved. There were reserves of material and technical resources, funds, people being trained. As a result, the harmful effects of water were reduced to a minimum. Now, no matter what the government says, all of this is lost. The main problem is that the state has no ability to do anything. In all cases, one answer is no money. The people living near the rivers now look forward to the spring with horror. Now in the early winters, for example, in the territory of Montenegro’s Polisi, individual villages are being submerged and submerged, and they are being cut off from the rest of the world. Often, without connection, the necessities, hunger, and cold, they expect natural charity. And in the many snows of winter, this horror becomes massive because people remain defenseless. True, agricultural production is less threatened because it can hardly stomach and lose anything. Because of the low technical level of hydrotechnical buildings, we are faced with the probability of technological catastrophes. The media frightens people with the possibility of destroying, for example, the D.C. stunt, and for good reason. I'm going to stop at less harmful water-breathing riverbanks within populated areas. It would seem that Desna is quiet compared to other rivers, but several villages are already suffering from coastal deformities. There is such a village of Shrines in the Sosnatsky region. As a result of the rustic deformity, the river approached residential buildings and farm facilities 20 - 25 meters [20 - 25 m] away. At present, there are six housing units that need to be moved, 39 are needed, and if so, one third of the village will continue. The same is true of Chernigov, where the river has already left its estuary 150 meters [150 m], and the river will travel 4-5 km [4-5 km] from Chernigov, and there will be environmental distress elsewhere. So it takes money for that and the government, I think I should pay attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, we're running out of time, but there's an insistence on performing. If there is no objection, let's continue for 15 minutes until 12 hours 30 minutes of discussion, and then let's sum it up. After that, I would ask the national deputies all to meet in the session room, we would have to vote very, very one minute, very many requests from the national MPs. Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, please. Prepare Oreste Klimpus.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u111	Ivan Hare, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Movement. Dear National Deputies! Today, we need to approach this issue from a very broad perspective. First of all, we need to understand with you the reasons for this phenomenon -- submerging the land. That's the same. We need to understand the consequences of this. And only then can we say what we need to do, how we can fix the situation for the better. There are reasons that don't depend on us -- climate change. But the main reasons are still human activity. We had a very large, but not elaborate, melioration in both the north of Ukraine and the south of Ukraine. Today, melioration systems are neglected. Clearly, water must go out somewhere, and it will clearly submerg the earth today. But the earth is being submerged not only as a result of the melioration but also as a result of the closure, the thoughtless closure of the mines. The earth is submerged by the flooding of rivers, and they are submerged by the fact that people today are building dwellings in the valleys of these rivers, that is, many reasons, but they are all of this kind of human activity. Thus, they can in principle be easily corrected for these reasons. I think we have enough legislation to be able to do this effectively. But the problem is that this work is not properly organized. In particular, it is not organized in the financing plan. It has been said that the budgeting plan for these programs is no more than 10 percent, which is done by 25 percent, which is said to have no money. There's money. Dear friends, in 2003, we recorded in the State Budget that the income coming from the budget from the exploitation or use of the special use of water is 320 million. The Environmental Protection Act states that these costs should be used exclusively for the recovery of natural resources, particularly in this case of water resources. Where did we put this money today? Again, we have released them in unknown ways in which articles we do not know which directions. So, national MPs, we have the right to appeal to the government today, but we should appeal to ourselves. When we prepare our budget, we need to be clear about the legislation, and then, indeed, there will be a great deal of trouble. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u112	Orestes Klimpus, please. Prepare Michael Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! The People's Authority faction, it's very interested in studying the situation around the state's extraordinary situations, because we're somehow responsible for the ministry's work, and we're sharing the anxiety that's been brought up in the report. In particular, the minister’s report paid considerable attention to the problems of Carpathia. I'm not going to operate on numbers that are very eloquent, but again, I can't help but point out that it's mostly about funding. 6 percent of the planned budget, think about it. Is it possible that there are 6 percent in any other article? That's impossible. Think about the people in which the flood destroyed the winter dwellings that entered the cold cold grass beneath the flood and their living conditions have not yet been restored to this day. This year, 10 million dollars are planned, and the debt is 7 million dollars. And if such funding is to be done, we are alone. We're not even going to cover our debt, not that we're going to do anything new. I hope that if there's a similar approach to funding, we, I mean, I hope there can be no similar approach to funding. The conclusion of today’s hearing is that it was necessary to listen to not so many ministers from extraordinary situations as finance ministers. Do you understand? Because it's all Minfin's responsibility for the budget, the distribution of budget revenue, and so on. That's why the Prime Minister has promised us to deal with the problems of the poor, especially in Zakarpat. And in the MP's statement, we get a standard reference that there's underfunding and they report it as their gains. You know, that's how much is written down and 10 percent is written, and there's 8 percent, there's 6 percent. I think it should be the other way around. The government has to fight for the implementation of approved plans, and hopefully in the new government, everything will be new. I'd like to address that situation. Extra-budgetary funds were sought. In particular, my colleague Ivancho has been reminding me of Swiss arrivals. I went to the Prime Minister and got the official answer that this is not the government's jurisdiction. So I would like to ask our decision to write a letter to the head of the National Bank, who is responsible for the liquidation of the Bank of Ukraine, in which these costs have been lost, to recover these funds, and to take this out of the Ukrainian State five times. And another circumstance that I would like to highlight. Is it that few know that when we had a flood in 2001, people found themselves in trees in the middle of a stormy river were filming what you think the helicopters of whose? Hungarian helicopters were taken off. The ambassador appealed to Hungarian authorities and the Hungarian authorities provided helicopters for several hours that saved the lives of 11 men in the Tacheva area. It is a disgrace to us that we, in such a large state, do not have a helicopter and that there are no trained helicopters in such places that are so high - risked that there are no trained helicopters ready to provide and be ready to provide such assistance in the future. I think we thank the Hungarians for what they've done, but we'll come to a conclusion for ourselves, and for the future we'll have our own teams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u114	Mikhail Pavlovsky, please. None. Let's delete it. Gregory Manchulenko, please prepare for Orzhachovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u115	Grigory Manchulenko, 203 District, Cherniewec Region, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Head, dear colleagues. By the April and September 2001 floods that took place in the territory of the Black Sea region of the Watchtower region were destroyed by 2.5 miles [2.5 km] of the Seret River, the Seret River, and the Seret River. inhabited places: Jadov, Panka, Banilev, Upper, David's, Cherish, Vertni, Petrovci, Miracles and the village of Krasnoilsk. According to previous estimates, there are some 3 million dollars worth of work spent on strengthening the banks of the rivers today. When the work is done in a timely manner, it will increase its cost several times. In view of this, the Watch Tower District Council addressed Prime Minister Kinach with a letter dated 30 July last year, number 406, and the President of Ukraine and Prime Minister Kinach in a letter dated 6 September last year number 451. And since there was no reply to the terms provided for in the current legislation, I sent a parliamentary address to the Prime Minister for number 1709 of September 23 last year and for number 1709-5 of November 11 of last year, which received a write-off from the relevant central executive authorities that had no funds, since the State budget for 2002 had not been implemented. The question therefore arises whether funding for counterproductive measures will be made on named rivers and in the villages of the Chernobyl region in 2003, or whether everything will be written down one more time to fail the budget and wait for the next extraordinary situation, which will require much more money to be eliminated. Next. At the request of the deputies of the Visitor Paradise of the Cherniewsky region to Kabmin on 16-22 July last year, no financial and material assistance was received from the Cabinet of Ministers. With this in mind and with the aim of warning the catastrophic consequences and avoiding the situation that had taken place in the Zacarpathian region, I appealed to Prime Minister Kinakh for number 1779 of 4 November last year to urgently address the issue of compensation from the reserve fund for damages in the Visniki district of Chernivecki region and for the certificates of inspection of 2 million 639 thousand 547 dollars and the amount of unreparable losses in previous years of 313,000 862 dollars. Yet, the answer came from Mineconomy and European integration issues that the problem could be solved at the expense of the local budget. It seems that the officials of this ministry are greeted in the clouds and do not know the real situation with local budgets. So I'm asking Kabmin to settle this issue, because the local budget of the O.K. can't deal with this problem on its own. Next. I appeal to the Prime Minister for number 1850 of October 18th last year to assist in the allocation of funds for the strengthening of the Chermos River near the village of Rostoka in the region of Czerniewice and for the reconstruction of the transfiguration dam, as the following floods can lead to the total flooding and destruction of the village of Rostoka. A response was received from the Ministry of Finance, which agreed that this was a serious problem and considered that Statekeeping should solve this problem after the 2003 budget was approved. So I'd like to go to Kabmin so that there's a proper commission by the State Guide to strengthen the river Cheremos near the village of Rostok of Putill district and to rebuild the transfiguration dam. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I urge you to form this statement as a parliamentary request to the Prime Minister in order to give me a solid answer that will be made by the government in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u116	National Deputy Orzhachowski, Communist faction. And we have Maria Marcus.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u117	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction, Hersonian. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear national MPs, voters! The question that is being considered in our session hall today concerns the problems of submerging, quite relevant to my region — Hersonian. Today, this has been the case, for every time we visit circuits, attend circuit council sessions, and associate with the electorate, we receive a massive request from people to do something to prevent the house from being submerged, so that there is no water in the funerals. So that the cemeteries don't get sunk and a lot of other things. I'm surprised that in recent years there have been a lot of appeals by the High Council's fellow deputies in Hersonland to our government asking them to activate their work in this regard. And even in Hersonish, as I recall, two years ago an appropriate commission was formed to study the situation in Hersonian, but unfortunately for some reason, its consequences and, in fact, whether it remained or not. The analysis of long - term observations shows that, for the natural conditions of the Herson region, the main natural factors for submerging populated areas are the practical impreciseness of most of the area’s plains, the weak natural drainage, the regional rise in the underground water level of the pumped water complex, the historical location of most of the population’s sites, and the decline of the relief site. The artificial submerging factors in the area are, first of all, the spillage of water from the water supply networks. What a flight that will be when virtually every head of the village council today has the right to demand active assistance from the government. The sewers, the sewers, we need a solution. It's also the village of Kalancha, it's Scadowski, it's Novotroitsk, it's Bereslavl, and so on. That's problem number one. As we continue to survive, I don't know, but there is no action yet. I can give an example of one where 70 to 80 percent of the village of Kalancha has already built clean-up buildings, but unfortunately, three years of no money is allocated from the budget. So I'd like to take this seriously to the government. Another problem with water supply for the population, which can lead to unexpected consequences, is the problem of providing people with drinking water. The collapse of the farms has led to a situation that is too difficult to deal with, and today they are largely unable to provide water. Today, however, we need to do everything we can to ensure that municipal farms can be able to deal with these problems, or we will face a problem when we start an unauthorized breach of artesian wells, and we will lose our beautiful water springs that will flow into rivers, and we will have swamps, and much more. Now, as far as I'm concerned, Vladimir Mikhailovich, analysis. In conclusion, I would like to say that to the state. In recent years, however, the area has been given 5 million dollars to solve the problems of submerging, but this is clearly not enough. Today, calculations in the area show that we need at least 17 million and then we can do something about the problem of submerging. If the government does not help, it will usually be difficult to count on personal opportunities. And literally two government proposals on what would have to be done. This is, first of all, the urgent order of internal irrigation systems, which may need to be a suitable program. Next. Bringing the operating level of existing drainage systems to their design level. We have to ban the release of drainage wells, we lose large costs, we pay, and then it takes a few hours to restore the operation of these wells. And last of all, we're doing anti-filtering work on the inter-economic highways. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u118	Maria Marcus, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u119	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues and present. Carpage is one of the most ecologically dangerous regions and has suffered significant losses from floods, shifts, and other natural factors over the period 1998-2001, resulting in damage to the sum of one and a half billion dollars. With a view to overcoming the effects of floods in 98 and 2001 and to preventing further severe floods in Zakarpat by the Cabinet of Ukraine Order of 24 October 2001, the number 2388 was approved as a comprehensive flood protection for the Tis River Basin in the Zakarpatsk region, with separate measures from the 2003 budget to allocate 10 million dollars, which is 50 per cent before the previous year. At the expense of these funds, it is envisaged in 2003 to build 15.2 kilometers of dams of defense, to land six miles [6 km], and to drain and clear 0.8 km [0.8 km] of river russels, which will protect 10 settlements and 1,200 hectares [120 ha] of farmland. Yet this is extremely small compared with the needs of today. Despite the fact that the program was designed to allocate $72.5 million of money with construction and reconstruction and dams, fortification, river regulation, and so on, these funds were not allocated sufficiently. My colleagues gave up the amount that was allocated to these needs. As of July 3, 2002, the Supreme Council of Ukraine asked its deputies to provide and determine funding for the Zakarpat programme, which was not funded this year, for at least 80 million dollars. However, this amount was virtually not budgeted. In no case could budget expenditure be reduced for these purposes, as it becomes a reality to destroy out-of-built flood management facilities in areas of the region, in fact, some of them are in stages between 30 and 60 percent readiness. If, God forbid, to predict what the flood will be, all of these costs that have been spent so far on the construction of these floodgates will virtually go to waste, and more damage will be done, since some of the dams that do not have any work done are now being bribed. In the city of Tachiv, the old dam, which has survived two floods, is now in a state of emergency, and another flood can lead to catastrophic consequences for the destruction of the Riverside. The reconstruction of this dam requires 4.7 million. That's right. In the village of Ganichi, it is necessary to build a city across the River Teresa 250 m long, a 7 km dam, at which the cost of 4.8 million is required. The bracelet asked this question that these costs would be allocated, but so far these costs have not been allocated. The village of Ganichi is the only one that's not protected by engineering at all. And it's only on these two populated sites that we can use these funds that are earmarked for these purposes in the State Budget. Yet there is still the village of the Great Bulls, where three objects were launched on the banks of the Tis River. One of them is not finished because of the lack of funds. The same state of construction of two water - protection structures is also found on the Shukurka River in the same village as it is on the banks of two rivers. And as a result, the Rakhiv-Uzhgrad road could be destroyed and the industrial area of the village could be flooded. In addition, villages such as Teresva, Burstin, Dubové, Hust, the village of Grushevo, and others need to be protected. So I believe that more money was needed for these purposes, and in principle the work that is being done today should be funded and done, since it is not possible to leave the objects behind without reaching the end of the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. To conclude, I invite Vitaly Anatolyovich Hajduk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u121	First of all, allow me to thank you for your indifference to the issue and for your keen interest in a positive solution to the problems of floods, submerged lands, and other harmful waters. Your concerns about the state of affairs are fully shared by the President of Ukraine, the government, the National Security Council and the defence of Ukraine. It is enough to say that in September last year, in November, the National Defence and Security Council of Ukraine, with the participation of the President, had twice considered the safety of water resources and the state of natural and technological security, giving major attention to these issues that were being addressed today at the bottom of the government. I hope that we will study your suggestions carefully, draw conclusions, identify measures that will help us break the situation for the better. On those questions, specific questions that you haven't been able to answer during the government day, we're going to deal with them, we're going to give written answers to the people's deputies. We hope that further cooperation between the government and the Supreme Council will take place in a spirit of mutual understanding, solidarity and constructiveism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate has shown that we have chosen the right topic today to address Government Day is a national security issue, and obviously the right approach to this issue must be provided at the national level. Perhaps we should go to a joint consideration of this issue -- the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Council of National Security and Defence -- in order to make the appropriate decisions that Ukraine is facing today. At the same time, I would like to emphasize what we're talking about in terms of consequences. We had very little to talk about today. I would like to support our colleagues, John the Rabbit, Yuri Karmazin, John Mihovich, who focused on the need to analyse the reasons for what we have today. I have to tell you, dear colleagues, one of the reasons for this must be that we have caused enormous damage to our actions today. During New Year's Christmas, I had the opportunity to study the situation in the Carpathians, to get to know myself deeply, and I have to say that we destroyed not the lungs of Ukraine, but the lungs of all Europe. Then we're talking about fuel supply, wood. Previously, it was mobilized, and when necessary, mention the heroic moments -- the Spider of Korchagin, the supply of wood by the city of Kiev -- there's wood lying there, they need to be picked up, cleaned up by the Carpathians. And I think, given the suggestions made in your speeches today, dear colleagues, we should seriously elaborate on the draft ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this issue. To give a mandate to the Court of Auditors, to give a mandate to the Attorney-General, to the law enforcement agencies, to study thoroughly and comprehensively the reasons why I would like to emphasize again, and to foresee perhaps a point under which the Supreme Council should return to the consideration of this issue over a period of time. If there is no objection, let us give this commission. In view of the proposals that require an immediate response from the relevant government structures, I ask the secretariat to prepare an appeal to the relevant authorities regarding the issues raised by the national MPs. I mean, I think we have good reason to say that this is a painful problem that needs active parliamentary control. Let us now consider the following questions. Dear colleagues, we agreed to vote on the questions. We have almost 30. Do you think we're going to vote on these questions now? But I wanted you to support them. All right. Then we'll be back at 4:00 in the morning to ask questions, and now we're back to work. I am announcing before the review a draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine to bring the Code into line with the Constitution. I thank the officials who participated in the first discussion today. Rapporteur: Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Alexander Ivanovich Medvedzko In five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u123	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You have before you a bill submitted by the President of Ukraine to amend the Criminal Procedure Code from a very important point of view for law enforcement. According to the current norm, part 5 of article 156 of the Criminal Procedure Code establishes an order whereby the time taken to familiarize the accused and his guardian with the criminal proceedings in calculating the term of custody as a precautionary measure is not taken into account. During the practical application of this rule, a question arose as to its conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine. Thus, some scientists and experts believe that this position of criminal procedure law is contrary to the basic laws of Ukraine, articles 22, 64, 29, 55, which provide that citizens' rights to freedom and personal integrity cannot be revoked and restricted, and that they are protected by the courts. In doing so, the right to judicial protection is real and realized when applying part 5 of article 156 of the Ukrainian CPC. And that's how human constitutional rights are violated. Such uncertainty in the application of legislation in the field of pretrial investigation, as well as in the direct application of human rights, should be removed and the standard improved. Therefore, it is proposed to amend articles 156, 165 with the 3 and 218 KPC badges and provide for the continuation by the judge of the Court of Appeal of periods of detention at the time of the prosecution’s knowledge of the material of the criminal case. The introduction of these changes will bring the law governing the order of custody into line with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and international and legal instruments for the protection of human rights and will guarantee the realization of the right for sufficient time and the possibility of preparing protection. It should also be borne in mind that on January 1, 2003, more than 43,000 persons, more than 17,000 of whom were tried, more than 9,000 convicted persons, were not legally enforceable, and more than 9,000 are counted as investigating bodies. Thus, in adopting certain changes to the Criminal Procedure Code, it is also necessary to resolve their further fate, otherwise releasing them from custody, especially those who have committed serious or particularly serious crimes, could lead to negative consequences. The project therefore proposes to introduce this law into force 90 days after its official publication of additional costs from Ukraine’s State Budget will not require the adoption of this law. The need for urgent adoption of this law is also explained by the fact that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is currently considering the constitutional submission of the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the unconstitutionality of the provisions of part five of article 156 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure regarding the failure to take account of the time when the accused and his guardian are informed of the material of the criminal case in the calculation of the time frame. Approval of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine's decision on the unconstitutionality of the above-mentioned rule, taking into account the criminal situation and the state of law in the state, law enforcement and judicial practice may have a very negative impact on the fight against crime. As a result of such a decision, a large number of accused persons will be released from prison, especially those who have committed serious and particularly serious crimes. On January 1, this year, about a thousand arrests are being made. There is also the danger that the investigation in complex, many - time cases involving organized crime will be virtually paralysed. The bill, with the participation of the staff of the Attorney General's Office, has been discussed on the legal committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and is generally supported. In this connection, the proposal is to support the bill for adoption in the first reading and, before it is processed for the second reading, to make some suggestions on the mechanism for the continuation of periods of detention at the time the accused and his advocate are informed of the material of the case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u124	Please sign up for the question. Turn the system on. Light up, please. The word is given to the School. Next Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u125	Dear reporter! Of course, it's a necessary law and, in principle, I'm very pleased that the Cabinet of Ministers here came out with such an initiative. But there is one question that I am interested in. If every law has to have, so-called, reverse action in a softening direction, all the people who didn't qualify to be on guard when they get to know the material of the case, after the adoption of this law, I hope that it will be returned to their months, and sometimes the years that they've had during their study of the material of the case will be counted and they'll be released from it if there's a reason for that. Is that so or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u126	Thank you for your attention. I want to tell you that those terms that they were in custody, they were taken into account by the court in sentencing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u127	Melniczuk. The next Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u128	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear reporter! Surely, what you have offered must be accepted, for all of this is a reflection of human destiny. Please tell me if you know that under the direction of the Attorney General's Office, there was a sick person who was in a Czernovite emergency, the director of the Czernovetsk Hemisphere, who was accompanied. The group accompanied the deputy prosecutor of the district of Parova. An arrested and sick person was taken to Kiev only for allowing some negligence in his work three years ago. And now this person is being held in the compound, and the sick person is being held in the compound in Kiev! On this point, maybe it's not about this bill that you're proposing, say, please, we're adopting laws, we're voting for them accordingly. What, then, is happening in action? Did you know that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u129	I'll deal with this case specifically and let you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u130	Matvienko Pavel Volodymyrovich. Next Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u131	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy Vernidub Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u132	Please, Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u133	Dear Alexander Ivanovich, the purpose of this bill is somehow misunderstood. In your words, it's meant to democratize the process, so that the KPC's standards are consistent with the Constitution. But on the other hand, you realize that in every small case, the investigator will have to continue to keep the watch and, in other words, this bill establishes a new investigation period of 25 or 30 days of everything. I think that this bill is not going to be for the benefit of the investigation, it's not going to be possible for 25 to 30 days in a comprehensive and complete investigation of the case and to establish the truth of the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u134	I'm answering you. In fact, the text of the draft amendments to article 156 allows for some disagreement between the proposed mechanism for the continuation of periods of retention under guard for 30 days before the end of such periods and the deadlines for conducting the pretrial investigation provided for in article 120. And that's why we have our proposals, which, I think, for the second reading, along with the profile committees, we're going to take down this disagreement and present the draft with your comments on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u135	Masenko Alexander Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u136	Dear Alexander Ivanovich, I have a question of such a plan. We all know, as they say, in the real world of our lives, that we have what a person's worth, but if he's got money, he can be bailed out, and if he doesn't have money, he can sit as long as he does. And if we continue to keep this law in check, the person who does not have the money will be sitting who knows him for the time being. And the one who has it, they're going to release it, and won't there be such a moment here if such a law is passed?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u137	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u138	No, that's what you think is one thing. What's it going to be like?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u139	Well, that's the law and that's the reason. It's a precautionary measure, so it's used.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u140	Alexander Ivanovich, you have to give more reasonable answers. Javorowski, please, Volodymyr Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u141	Vladimir Yavorowski, Jovkovsky district, Lvivščina, Our Ukraine. Dear reporter! Today we will consider another very important law on prior imprisonment, but then you will not be reported to the deputies, so I will take advantage of the opportunity as a national deputy. Please tell me, we have many examples of a person being held in prison and in prison for a year and a half and a half, and he is on his way and is under investigation. I can give you an example, for example, of Vasil Mushka, held by Datsuk, Attorney General, for a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and no one is responsible. Julius Timoshenko was held. When we're finally, as a professional, I'm going to ask you, when are we going to be able to end this completely anti-constitutional, anti-human phenomenon that you just don't want? For example, what is Datsuk responsible for today? But I am convinced that he needs to be held accountable now and that he is not sitting there in warm places in Odessa, but I am responsible for the fact that people have been held in prison for absolutely no reason and no one is responsible for it. Thank you for not a short answer, but a deep and real one. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u142	Thank you for asking. I believe that this law is about extending the deadlines for examining the case to the judge of the Court of Appeal and is intended not to allow such a violation of the law when a person is found in custody. So the judge is going to decide whether or not to be necessary, because the judge and he chooses to take a precautionary measure of keeping the watch, which will correspond to article 29 of the Constitution, where it is clearly stated that a person can only be held in custody under the court's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u143	Alexander Ivanovich, referring to another matter, needs to be more attentive to the questions. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Onopenko Vasil Vasil Vassilovich, head of the Legal Policy Committee, will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u144	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Dear colleagues! The Committee on Legal Policy considered the bill and supported it, proposing it as a basis or in the first reading. It's an interesting bill. A year and a half ago, you remember, I suggested that we make similar changes, there was a broader change to the Criminal Procedure Code -- the application of a precautionary measure as a domestic arrest, but it was then that the Attorney General's Office did not support the bill. Today, it's just a pleasure that the Attorney General, the Deputy Attorney-General, in general, supports the bill tabled by the President of Ukraine. I think we need to support it, too, because there's actually a complex situation that's formed when people go into detention in investigative isolation, which is the precautionary measure of keeping them under guard. Today, article 120 of the Criminal Procedure Code provides for investigative terms. Well, the general term foresees-- two months of investigation on any case should be over. If the investigator fails to complete the investigation, he will continue for up to three months by the appropriate prosecutor. If the investigation is delayed again, the district attorney and the relevant prosecutors may continue for up to six months, and the investigation will continue with the Attorney General and the Deputy Attorney General. If it's about keeping watch, it's like this. Pursuant to article 156, if the chosen precautionary measure is for the first time in two months, then four months, then the judge of the appeal court up to nine months, and the judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine up to eighteen months. But this is a practical situation. Since there is a record in article 120, article 156 of the Criminal Procedure Code, that the time of familiarizing the accused, his guardian or the accused and the defendants with the material of the criminal case is not involved in the investigation and maintenance of the case. So, let's say, after the investigation of the case is completed, the investigators in the order of article 218 of the Criminal Procedure Code refer to the prosecutor for acquittal or charge and familiarize the defendant with the material of the case. And here's an introduction that could take a month or two, and the school asked that question, three or four, a year. And people are actually keeping watch. And that doesn't go into that term. So we think it's unacceptable. Of course, there is a problem. For example, when it comes to a two-month term of investigation, and, for example, if it comes to two months of detention, it's done according to these changes that are made to the Criminal Procedure Code, the investigation should be completed in a month, not in two months. And here, I think we should think together with the Attorney General's Office, there are observations that are serious by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. So that we don’t throw ourselves in the other direction, and so we don’t hit the investigation, the objective investigation of criminal cases. But this is already a task, I think, of second reading, where you and I will work together on this bill and make it more perfect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u145	Please sign up for questions. Lighten up. The word is given to Javorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovitch, next to School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u146	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski and Žovkovsky district, Lvivščina, faction "Our Ukraine". Dear Mr. Vasile, I'm asking you the same question, because the Deputy Attorney General has almost given him away. You know the point of the problem, I'm just going to remind you a little bit. In fact, our judiciary today is so narrowed down, you know better than I do as a professional. But, indeed, there is perhaps one of the most painful topics: we have a person who can keep a year-by-year in prison, who seems to be being investigated, who is being sent to research, while a person is in prison. And when the happy end finally comes, this happy ending, this happy ending, people get released, nobody even apologizes to her, by the way. When finally we are, what do we have to do as legislators? I'm asking you as an MP. What we need to do in order to avoid, let's say, spending a year and a half of Basil Mansco's deputy head of the Kragrotechservices, as he was talking about on the radio in his program. Julius Timoshenko, but you can call a lot of people when they're being held, then released. No one is responsible for this. I called the name of Datsuk because for his reign, when he's in the rostrum, you remember when he used to sing songs here, blame everyone and everything. And we thought about, finally, in Ukraine, fighting corruption, with the Mafia. And it turns out that it was just basic political revenge for a hint there, I don't know whether the President or anyone else. When do we end this phenomenon? For a person to know that if he is under investigation, this is necessary, there are valid reasons and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u147	Volodymyr, thank you for asking. We have already started this work and it is effective. Even the fact that custody as a precautionary measure is taken by a decision motivated by a court’s decision rather than by the appropriate prosecutors has reduced the use of security five times. This is from the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Imagine how many people could sit in investigative isolation, that's the reason you're talking about. So now we have a new Code of Criminal Procedure coming into the committee. These aren't the patches we're bringing in today. We have to do this. And the committee on securing the law enforcement organs of Moses and they take care of the relevant bills. We're working on this problem right now. I also introduced a bill to restrict the use of precautionary measures such as guarding. I have determined that if today, for example, criminal responsibility is up to three years old and can be applied there, I propose that I raise this level by five. It's impossible for people with disabilities, people of a certain age to be sent to insulators. Today, when compared with Germany, I was interested in the experience of Germany and other countries. In Germany, the population is twice as big, but in the penitentiary system there are twice as many people, about 90,000. And that's why they say it's too much. So there must be someone who has committed serious crimes, especially serious crimes, and not when it is convenient, I apologize to the investigation, and they are convenient to investigate the case when it is kept in custody. It's pretty easy to do. There will be problems with the adoption of this law, but we need to think about how to help investigators to work effectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u148	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u149	Dear Vassil Vasilovich, I would like to draw attention to this bill again. You know, while I'm in the detention facility, I've seen people get really, really familiar with the material. And yet, on top of them constantly, really, there was pressure that this whole term didn't count for their time in the tracking isolation, so it doesn't follow any sanctions anymore, they just hold and very many nuances have arisen. So I would like to stress once again that we should vote for this bill, which is not difficult or unacceptable there for investigation. I'd really like to hear from you that all of these amendments or all of these amendments that the Ministry of Internal Affairs is proposing are not going to make it difficult to stay under guard again, because being under guard is already difficult. And all the laws are directed against the defendant, not in his defense. And this may be the first time in the history of Ukrainian parliamentaryism such a law will be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u150	I think that if we think first of all about a person who's particularly vulnerable, when criminal matters are being violated, it's the way that we're going to go, the civilized way. The next bill, it's my bill that accuses a criminal offence, and we don't have it in the Criminal Procedure Code, I have to say that, I think you'll support it in this room too. Today my bill, the Levtsuna and the Seminogues, is being considered as to what conditions there are people who are not yet found guilty of investigative isolation. But that's different.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u151	Verni Dubov Ivan Vasilovich and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u152	Dear Vassil Vasilovich! As a person with a great deal of practical legal experience, you realize that the investigator, fearing that he will not be able to complete the investigation within a month, will ask for an extension of the custody term. I mean, on the contrary, this will lead to an increase in the retention periods. I think so. Legal practice has led to this. What am I leading to? Wouldn't it be more appropriate for you to consider the terms that apply to two or four months of investigation, so that it doesn't apply to 30 days, but where more than four months, of course, that would be logical?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u153	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich. This question came to us on the committee, by the way, on the side of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and we came to the conclusion that there is a problem here and we need to think together about how to solve it. But this does not mean that the bill should not be adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u154	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please. Next one, Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u155	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! Of course, the situation in places of deprivation is a situation that deserves attention. At the same time, we don't have a situation that leads to absurdity, and I'm going to ask you to do that. Taking into account the periods of familiarity between the accused and his advocate with the material of the case and the periods of pretrial investigation, this will serve the interests of those who are drawn to criminal responsibility, and the conditional balance of these interests will tend to benefit them. Will Society Win? I don't think so. Should we do so? I think we need to think this through. Why? Because making changes to articles 120, 156 of the CPC can create conditions for avoiding criminal liability for those who have committed very serious and serious crimes. Look what happened before. These changes, which were now said to be accepted, were already active in the 1960 Criminal Procedure Code. But what happened? We turned them down. Why did we give them up? We refused them under the influence of the criminogenic situation that had taken place. I just got back from Odessa. Five years, no murder! Criminal clans are already ruled by the leaders of the whole region. It's all happening under the bullets! Under the patronage, beginning with the governors, ending the mayors of cities and districts! Here's what's happening today. And that, this law, we want to say that it will improve the fight? No, it's not. I'm absolutely sure he'll make the fight worse. And I'd like you to think about it. We want to help everyone, and we need to help the most vulnerable. And we can't compare today the situation in Germany to our situation. Different levels of lawfulness. Different levels of technical security. Various levels of corruption between courts and other law enforcement agencies. Moreover, such an approach, which is now on the time frame for the defendant to be held, I believe, will lead to the fact that in complex cases the authorities of the pretrial investigation will take all measures to ensure that the defendant released from the pre-trial detention facility does not escape the trial, which will require an extremely large amount of material, financial and human effort on the scale of the country. Investigators' corruption will rise. To get big bribes, they're going to have to miss the deadline, and they don't need anything else. To think of an important reason: the computer is dependent, something else — and that’s all. And the pass will mean automatic release from custody. That's why I'm talking to those who passed the bill. HAVE you thought of the state? I would like to thank, from this high rostrum, the representatives of our Chief Scientific and Experimental Department, who all said in one voice that the project needed substantial work. And in that way, it can't be accepted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u156	Thank you. Taras Viacheslavovich Czarnovil, next Bandurka
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u157	I have such a difficult situation under this law, Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues, because, on the one hand, I understand that in our country where there are, there have already been political prisoners, in which huge numbers of people are kept in custody, not because they have committed a crime, but because they have hindered some of the clan’s interests, we must anticipate as liberally as possible conditions to keep them under guard and to secure their rights. On the other hand, let us not forget that other than innocent people, there are real criminals, rapists, murderers, thieves in our prisons. So I can and will agree with Deputy Carmazin that this law does some damage to the general public's interests, but I'll walk a little bit by the article. The only piece of legislation that I can absolutely accept is part of the fifth 156th article, where the inclusion of time learning includes the time frame for the calculation of imprisonment. That is, people who already have difficult things to meet will not actually sit in prison for no reason, not counting then for a general purpose. As far as the other articles are concerned. Article 120 is generally a good article, changes to the 120th, where at the time of learning to include in the trial, but it is not in line with this bill with other articles of the law. There is some chaos and, let's say, once again, in the investigative system, you can use the time to familiarize the defendant with the documents, let's say, to continue certain investigative actions that will harm the suspect, the accuser himself, by making their situation more difficult. I fully agree that if there were no 30 days to get to know each other, there would be a need to make some adjustments. But let's see, it's proposed that the judge of the Court of Appeal be sued for filing an investigation or for the approval of the Attorney General or his deputies or for the representation of the Attorney General. That's what we're actually giving the prosecution's side, the prosecution's side of the charge, all the rights to decide the defendant's fate, which is getting familiar with the case, and can't conduct it properly. As for the fact that this law provides for the possibility of seriously prolonging the subject's knowledge of our case, we are again scurried, in fact, from the extreme to the extreme instead of building a string, a normal pattern for classifying all things. In general, this law is a sin of non-differentiation. Instead of introducing the general standards simply for everyone, you could write down why a person is in custody -- whether they can harm only the investigation, whether they can influence the court, if they can disappear at all. If she was able to influence the investigation, she was actually in prison during the investigation. Then, for a trial period, such a person should be released. This is a huge amount of property crimes, crimes related to professional activity. And the last. Since my time is up, I would like to say one more thing. Well, about that law. I would ask that this law should be adopted, but my personal opinion is that it needs to be re-readed and removed from all the chaotic things in it. And the last. When the Cabinet of Ministers gives us the bill, there are real authors. When the bill comes from the President, it's clear that the President didn't write it, whether it's written by the executives, by the people who did it, so that we can at least know who did it. The country needs to know its heroes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u158	Thank you. Alexander Markovich Bandurka, please. Get Verni Dubov ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u159	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Every year in Ukraine, the internal affairs authorities have completed 200,000 criminal cases in relation to 250,000 accused. In doing so, a relatively 21-23 percent of the defendants are taking a precautionary action in the form of taking in custody. For a period of two months, 97 percent is completed, that is, the investigation is recorded in procedural standards. There are three percent where complex and time-consuming cases need to continue in accordance with the law, that is, through the prosecutor’s office and the court. During 2002, more than two months — 4,871 were completed. So today we're talking about 4,871 cases in the bill. And where there was an automatic, by law, an extension of the term is chosen. I'd like to ask respectable Vasil Vasilovich and the main reporter: how much more investigation should we need if we're going to adopt these rules of law? Yes, there is a need to improve the legal standards of safekeeping. We've just begun the development of the Criminal Procedure Code. But, dear fellows, I'd like to say, friends, because we're all concerned about the one question that we really need to bring these rules of law in order. What we're going to make difficult is not just the life of the investigator but, above all, the person we want to protect today. In the case of the adoption of this law, if this is not solved and the questions that Mr. Cnerwell raised here are, and it is Basil Vasilovich who is questioning the individual standards of this law. For a printer, a standard of 20 pages of printing is set for an eight-hour working day. And for the accused there is no norm -- how much does he have to read the pages of a criminal case in a day - 5, 6, 20 -- whether he has a head, whether he is a believer in an idea or an angel, and he says that I can't work today on Friday. Let's think about it, dear fellows. I'd like Vasil Vasilovich to join that working group that's working on the Criminal Procedure Code, to speed it up, we have almost 90 percent ready, and its development, and its adoption. Or we patch holes from one rule of law to another. There is no doubt that it is necessary to regulate the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u160	Ivan Vasilovich Vernidubov, please, the European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u161	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! For some time in recent years, there have been many bills on changing the criminal procedure in a form that seem to be aimed at liberalizing and democratizing the criminal process, and in some cases are, in my opinion, even harmful. They only complicate the possibility of a full and comprehensive investigation of the matter and the establishment of the truth in the matter. For some reason, this bill was viewed by some deputies as a form of leniency for people who were in places of deprivation. In any case, the suspect will sit as long as the investigator and the judge consider it. It's only about some kind of technological process, it's about that this project, in particular, has a significant reduction in the duration of the investigation, twice or more. If the main investigation period is two months, then the investigator should, if we adopt the bill, investigate the case in one month. I can assure you that in more criminal cases, according to the articles of the Criminal Code, this is virtually impossible. I wouldn't want your acquaintance, someone close to me, to be in the hands of an investigator, who should be able to handle this perfectly in 25 to 30 days. It's practically impossible. Then we will look forward to breaking the law and unwarranted attraction to criminal responsibility by far more persons than ever before. Thus, when a new order is introduced to meet the requirements provided for in articles 218 and 220 of the CPC, the procedure of pre-trial investigation will only be complicated and the investigation periods will be automatically increased in almost all cases where the accused will be charged with a precautionary action in the form of an indemnity under guard. This is especially true of all of us when we care for a person and his rights. In addition, the explanatory note to the project states that the existing standards of the current CPC conflict with individual articles of the Constitution and international acts. But I don't know, for example, any international act that deals with the order of familiarizing the accused with the criminal record or the time of the defendant's being held in custody, the order of his calculation. We need to bear in mind that a significant number of persons arrested, especially for serious crimes, knowing that the irreparability of punishment in the form of deprivation of liberty is deliberately delayed by terms of knowledge of the matter, desiring to receive daily treatment through defenders and close product and property transfers, as well as under the conditions set by the court, punishment is impossible. In this regard, I would consider it appropriate to reject the bill and to apply the procedure set out in article 6.3 for the time being. 4 Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and sent for scientific and legal expertise, to consult with the Ministry of Justice, the Attorney-General's Office, the Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Tax Administration and the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We're going to make decisions on the day of the vote and we're going to be determined by the discussion, as you see positions here ambiguous and polar. Let us now consider another question. This is a draft of the Law on Land. The rapporteur is Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, Anatoly Stepanovich Danilenko. Please, Anatoly Stepanovich, five minutes. Tell us about this law. Please. The Land Administration Act, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u163	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in accordance with the requirements of section 9, paragraph 4, of the Land Code of Ukraine, which took effect on 1 January 2002, has drafted a draft Ukrainian Law on Land, which has been submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The main purpose of the bill is to ensure the rational use and protection of land, to create an environmentally friendly environment and to improve the natural landscape. The bill defines socio-economic and environmental measures aimed at regulating land relations and the rational organization of areas of administrative and territorial formations, economic operators, which are carried out under the influence of socio-productive relations and the development of productive forces. The bill includes four chapters, the 31st article, the final position. The main positions that are enshrined in the draft law are the order of implementation of the land system through the policy of the State in the field of land management, the identification of the types of land-use works in the execution of the land-use system, the determination of the steps of the land-use process, the order in which State expertise, land-use documentation, the control and copyright of land-use management, the financing of action in the execution of the land-use system. The bill is designed to identify and regulate legal, environmental, social and organisational principles in the pursuit of land-based activities and to guide them to a rational economic balanced use of land, to create an environmentally friendly environment and to improve the landscape. The bill provides for the role of the land administration, which will perform a technological function, based on specific conditions for the specialization of agricultural production, the use of agricultural arrangements by landowners and land users. The bill proposes to define the institutional, economic and social foundations for the creation of land-useable and land-based agricultural enterprises. In other areas of agriculture, the function of the land administration is based on the efficiency of land use in the development of a construction project. The bill defines the main objectives of the country’s system, such as purposeful, legislative and executive bodies, local self - government bodies, enterprises, institutions, organizations of citizens’ associations in the creation and organization of existing land structures, local boundaries, planning and organization of rational land use and protection. The implementation of the Ukrainian Land Administration Act will implement basic principles and orientations based on the provisions of the Land Code and other laws in the field of land law. This is to ensure the social function of landowners and land use, to create legal, territorial and ecological conditions for the realization by Ukrainian citizens of land rights; to achieve the complexity of the development of areas, to study their use as a group of complex natural and anthropogenic ecosystems; to prioritise agricultural farming and land use; to ensure a level playing field for different forms of land-use management; to prevent the removal of particularly valuable productive land for non-agricultural purposes; to ensure sustainable land use and land protection. Ukraine's draft Land Authority Act is based on the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Land, Water and Forest Codes of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The bill was drafted by the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, the State Ministry of State and the Ukrainian Academy of Agrarian Sciences, the main developer of which is the State Committee on Land Resources of Ukraine. Please approve the proposed project in the first reading and after appropriate development, taking into account the additions and proposals of the Ukrainian National Deputies, to put it into effect this year. Distinguished People's Deputies! Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Thank you for your attention. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u164	Dear colleagues! You obviously have a question for the Head of the State Committee. Please sign up. Five minutes to ask. Put it on the board, please. Please, National Deputy Noshchenko, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of "Trug Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u165	Dear reporter! Of course, this law regulates matters that are most painful and relevant in the country today. But I have a specific question. The law states that land administrations are financed by government, local, and other sources of financing. The functions of the earth’s system are performed by the authorities of the government or by the organization of state administrations and by the other organizations. I'd like you to explain what "other" funding is, what "other" organizations are. Are these organizations profitable or profitable? Is that commercial? In what form will they be implemented within the administration? For example, the area. Are they going to be interdisciplinaries that will have to make thousands of people and their families uncomfortable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u166	Thank you, Your Honourable People's Deputy, for the question raised. There's a whole bunch of questions that you've raised. First of all. The National Committee on Land Resources of Ukraine is the central executive body responsible for the introduction of a policy that is shaped by the adoption of bills, the adoption of a law directly by the Supreme Council and in accordance with the President's decrees, the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers. About organizing territories, how to sort things out. You said only on agricultural land. In fact, the land of agriculture, if any, covers 42 million hectares of Ukrainian land of 63.3 million hectares. But let's see today when we have a conversation about what the earth is going to be. That's how much border work has been done. Let's see how we've done work today to establish the boundaries of population locations, how land is being used in populated areas in large and small cities. I'd like to say that today's inventory and monetary valuation are about 48 percent of 100 percent due to the lack of financial resources in the population. If we look today at how much the local revenue is received from the Land Pay Act, today it's $1 billion 800 million. If we had done this full-scale work, we would now be receiving annual revenues from the local budgets of about 4 billion dollars that are so necessary to solve many of the issues facing the local authorities today. Now, who should do it? This should be done by those authorities who are duly licensed to adhere primarily to existing legislation. The subject of funding is of course. Regrettably, only 4 million for 2003 have been allocated to the budget, such as borders. Moldova, a much smaller country this year allocated $4 million, is one of the objects of the answer. We're talking today about how many new entrepreneurial structures have been created in the agricultural sector. We need to do a proper job on the land system, and we need to do an internal-economy work. Let's see how effectively the machinery yards are being used, in which state of travel today in the fields in which the landings are today is exactly the subject of work, and this is the law, a bill designed to improve this work in general in our Ukraine. Thank you for the questions raised.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u167	Rephat Chubarov, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u168	That's what you call it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u169	Dear Anatoly Stepanovich. Anatoly Stepanovich! During the years of Soviet power and then under the conditions of an independent Ukraine, we have tried different schemes of land administration by the authorities of the state, but each of these schemes has had its drawbacks. Today, local councils have the greatest authority over the earth. Not everyone may have noticed, but in past elections, the struggle to elect deputies or heads of individual rural councils, especially in the Southern Crimea, was more severe than the election of Ukrainian national deputies. It is understandable why this was done. Tell me, Anatoly Stepanovich, how do you find that balance in the distribution of authority over land by government authorities, but such a distribution that, on the one hand, there is no concentration of all authority on the ground, so that without local authorities they have to decide, and on the other hand, that the local authorities do take into account everyone's interests, including the state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u170	Thank you for the questions raised. My answer will be very brief. Today, in the Crimean Autonomous Republic, it's only been accepted when the aid is paid that it's over 100 million dollars, and that's exactly what these funds are meant to address the many issues that you've just raised in your statement. And the next. Literally in a short period of time, I think the national MPs will be looking at here in the session hall a draft law on the delimitation of state and municipal property. In my opinion, we need to adopt this law to the Supreme Council, and we need to work actively, and we have experience from how we worked to determine the boundaries of our country with our neighbours, with neighbouring countries, and we have this opportunity and the tools allow, and the level of experts per year-by-year to do this work in full, I'm not afraid to say that in full volume. Well, so let's look at the standards that are in the law on self-government. There's something to think about. It is this bill that brings us into the legal field of empowerment and role, the responsibility of all leaders at all levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u171	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u172	Thank you very much. Dear reporter, I'd like to touch on a much narrower subject here, but still it, its heat doesn't give any reason to miss it. You know that the land under the churches is not privatized, that is, under the ransom and all that. The church community has no right to the ransom of this land. She is obliged to pay rent until the end of her existence. This question is not settled, and it has to be settled, because one thing is not to own a church here, the other on the right, the ground. It is a constant draw from not so rich church communities, for people are paid, not by priests, but by ordinary people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u173	Thank you for asking. The answer is very short. First of all, the Earth Code and the laws of law allow, allow. And second moment. Without talking about the lands of the agricultural assignment that used to be used by the churches, and the language goes, I realized, specifically for the territory that serves the church’s premises. I think it's your good will as a national MP to make such a proposal for additions and changes to the Earth Code. We see ways to do this, because we have to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u174	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u175	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u176	Time's up. Sit down, Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u177	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u178	Please welcome to Michael Vasilovich Zubc's report for the basis of Bill 1043-1, well, the proper assessment of the government. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, in Ukraine, as in most of the countries that have emerged in the former Soviet Union, the problem of land-sharing has gained even more acute economic and not only economic but also socio-political relevance. For 11 years, our land awaits its master. What do we have today? The soil’s fertility has been catastrophically reduced, with more than 80 percent of agricultural land being affected by erosion. Over the past few years, as a result of a quick short-term approach, the simplest demands of land use are ignored -- seismics. Over the past 10 years, 82 percent of sunflower seeds have grown and are known to drain the earth. The question is, Why is it not practically grown in Europe but bought from us? The answer is simple: It is better to corrupt someone else’s land. By the beginning of 1990, the system of land administration in Ukraine had been fully developed, a scientific and methodological and organizational and technical provision of land-based work, a theory and a practice of land structure had been developed. However, land transformations that began in Ukraine since 1990 have revealed significant gaps and theories in land - management methods, especially in the areas of reformed agricultural enterprises. During the years of land reform during the 1991 - 2001 period, the country’s system of land was severely damaged by agricultural land, land use, and fertility of agricultural land. More than 5 million hectares of degraded and underproductive arable land are present in the country, with an average damage of about 30 dollars a year per hectare, requiring extensive land-use, conservation, regeneration, and transformation of agricultural land into others. The country's experience and practice in other countries show that the real mechanism for establishing land use patterns, land management and land reconfiguration can be only a land structure that deals with legal, socio-economic, organisational and environmental tasks. As one of the most important components of land relations, the earth’s organization acts as a means of production and regulates social relations in terms of land ownership, use, and management. Therefore, all actions related to land redistribution, the creation of new landownerships and land use, the organization of use and land protection should be carried out only in an orderly manner and on the basis of detailed socio-economic and environmental considerations. The decline in the role of the State in the implementation of land management has led to the loss of the land use and protection function as a major asset management system that has disrupted the complexity of land-use management. At this stage, the State has no concept of using and protecting land at the national level without having a clear scientifically based position on land-use-use-of-a-farmers, forecasting the consequences of land-reforming measures. This has led to a significant reduction in the number of basic types of soil fertility, the root surface improvement of feeding conditions, the introduction of milled land, the restoration of irrigation and dried land, the agrochemical cultivation of fields, and the development of a complex of conservation and erosion measures. Uncertainty in the nature of the boundaries of the newly created enterprises and organizations of quantitative and qualitative characteristics of landowners requires the immediate execution of a set of good jobs. From having good mapping plans and ground-based agro-ecological and other surveys to the development of land-based projects to be scientifically based on recommendations for rational use and land protection. The interests of citizens, businesses, regions, and states must be taken into account. In order for the land administration to become a state regulator in the administration of land protection, it is essential to adopt the Land Administration Act first. It is necessary to establish the state-of-the-art nature of land, the organization of land financing, scientific and technical, and human resources. This Law lays down the legal and organizational basis for land administration activities and is aimed at regulating relations that arise between government authorities, local governments, authorized land administrations, legal persons, and citizens. The draft Law includes 8 chapters 72. In chapter 1, there are general positions, I'm not going to stop at them, they're characteristic of everyone where all the concepts are defined. In view of the fact that Ukraine’s current Earth Code does not regulate the powers of government authorities and local self - government authorities in the field of land administration. These questions are revealed in the second chapter. Chapter three, "Organization of land administration regulation and land administration" reveals organizational, normative, technical and standardization of land administration regulations, harmonization and documentation approval, the creation of a state documentation fund, the order in which land administration data is used. The fourth chapter of the implementation of the land system at the national and regional levels sets up new types of work and details of the work envisaged by the Ukrainian Code of Land are land-based works. and the establishment of the state border of Ukraine, the development of state-owned and regional land use and protection programmes, projects to establish and change the boundaries of administrative and territorial structures, cities and other settlements, projects of organizations and the establishment of areas with special conservation and conservation regimes. The fifth section of "Earth at the local level" sets out regulations for the development of projects for the formation of municipal property of local communities in settlements and the delimitation of state and municipal property. Section 6 of the State Self-Governmental Control of Land Administration reveals the task of State control, the need for licensing and state experts in the field of land administration and the self-governance of land administration by rural, rural, urban, district and district councils. And finally, chapter seven, Science, Personnel, Financial Security. For the first time, Ukraine has been regulated at the national level for the provision of scientific support to the earth’s system, for the preparation of human resources, and for the promotion of its qualifications. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u180	Do you have any questions, Your Honor? Yes. Please, let's sign up. Please sign up. Please point it on the board. Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction, please. We made a deal there for five minutes, didn't we?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u181	Thank you, Hinzburg, 161 constituency. Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, I know the answer to many of these questions that I would like to ask just so that people who are listening to what we are talking about today will hear these questions. Look, Reverend Mikhail Vasilovich, you've ever gone to the village where you were born. When you get to the village, it stings your heart. Yeah? Joy, my father's house, cherry, something else. And that's when I come to my village of Vishnka, where I was born, it's in Chernigovishka, and it's empty, it's all grown. That's my question. I know why and who is to blame, I just think :” What to do?" We accepted the Earth Code. We're talking about a very serious law that we're discussing right now. And the regional program, there's paragraph seven, and we're talking about local programs. I have another question. If we adopt this law, how much more laws do we need, and how much more laws do we need to adopt, so that these flaws that we have given birth are removed in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u182	I get it. You know, I didn't know you were my landlady. So to characterize the situation in the village what you said, I won't, because it really is. And I often, like you, see this painting. To say that the Earth Code, which was adopted last year, does not answer all the questions that have arisen in the country today. I guess like a whole bunch of other laws, this law needs, you see, we're constantly adopting some amendments to the laws, too, here. But the adoption of the Land Act, I asked why we're doing it, first of all, is the failure to implement the Earth Code. There we must adopt almost seventeen acts of law. One of them, the main one, is the Law on the Land. I don't want to prove to you that he's perfect, that he's covering all the questions. This, in my view, would not even be modest. So I agree with you that we're going to have to work very seriously to somehow pull out that poor village that we're going to talk about for reform here at the parliamentary hearings, how many problems there are of yo-yo. And here I agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u183	Vladimir Spivacuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u184	Vladimir Spivacuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Michael Vasilovich! You're very well, I think you know what's going to happen in the village today. The issuance of state acts to the ground and some other things have given birth to what is called a "marriage." As they say, once upon a time, Kobilian. There were all these things. How and how the question of today can be settled.? How and how can the question today be resolved that societies, so - called, with limited responsibility, do not waste what has been done in decades? And how do you think today, in your opinion, that we can ensure the normal lives and normal livelihoods of the peasants that they have to expect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u185	You asked such a question as, I'm sure whoever's on this platform won't give you the answers. If you want to know my personal vision of the issue of issuing state acts, I was not yet a national deputy, and I was the president of the academy I wrote a letter to the head of the Supreme Council, John Stepanovich Plush, that from the position of my vision and scientific reasoning I would suspend this work. [[you started with this]] And I've given clear reasons for this. And that's what we're in a hurry to do today with the issuance of state acts. You know how many shortcomings there are! You tell me, if even you were to divide this land in kind, if we did, what we want, and the issuing of State acts just provides, according to our Constitution, for the allocation of land in kind -- we don't do it, you know -- it's going to be a second question. One neighbor, another neighbor. What territory will you travel to? You'll be driving around the neighborhood. You hear what's going to be there. So I'm going to hold back from answering your question because it raises deep issues of rural distress with the distribution of land. I think that tomorrow, at parliamentary hearings, these issues will be more widely enlightened.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u186	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u187	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky oblasts, Lvivščina, "Our Ukraine". Your Honor, I strongly disagree with your position that we still need to delay the issuance of State acts, and we've been through this all along. But my question is specific. For some reason, I mentioned Churchill’s phrase, which said that there are people who feed crocodiles just because they hope that the crocodile will eat them last. So, from this phrase, I'm worried about this situation. I have the impression that we will soon have a sharp increase in the number of arable land in Ukraine. I don't know what we're going to do with those thousands of hectares, I mean, we're going to cut out the forests so much, we're not going to have them at all, but there's going to be a lot of land. What do you think, as a scientific man, authority, I respect you, what do you think about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u188	Dear Vladimir Alexandrovich, I understand your question. You are perhaps raising the fundamental issue of land use. In fact, in the days of the Soviet Union, we beat ourselves in the chest and boasted that we call ourselves the ruinousness of the land, which is 82 percent. There is no similar percentage of earth’s destruction in the world. It doesn't exist. So three years ago, agrarian science made proposals to the government that, in order to preserve our land, they would move away. I told you, 82 percent is erosion land. Remove 10 million hectares of rollers from processing. For 1.7 million, they're huge slopes and sands, and they're going to make the leaves, because we're the last ones in Europe. We have 14 percent of the area's forestation while Europe has 29 and a half percent. The Joint Order of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and the Ukrainian Academy of Agrarian Sciences adopted in this direction and the work is now being carried out following a sharp decline in the output of arable land. But you know, in connection with the degradation of the land, there was a very pressing question: How can we prove to this landowner that we will stop plowing your land? There's economic justification now and it's doing the science that will soon be proposed for active implementation. And the question is that something has to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u189	National MP Masenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u190	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, I have such a question. You understand that I was afraid, strangely, to listen to your speech from the rostrum, because I can hear you not for the first time. And when you claim that you haven't found an effective landowner in 11 years, it's all been done according to your recommendations as a scientist in this field. Why didn't you direct the President that way, instead of directing the government that they still haven't found an effective owner? And give me the answer: how much more time do you think it takes as a scientist to find this owner effective on earth?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u191	I got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u192	And there's more. Wait. And one more question. After all, from your submission, from that man Danilenko, who is sitting and not listening in the Presidium there, many laws have been passed in us, which, in my opinion and in the opinion of many deputies and citizens, are detrimental to our economy and to our village, but no one is responsible for their destructive action. So who do you think is responsible? And the last thing I wanted. Get as a scientist to give people free of charge those state acts on land rations, because people have been led to such a state that they have no money to pay for government acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u193	Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u194	I get it, Alexander Mikolayovich. These are the issues that are being raised by the State Committee on Land Resources in relation to the issuance of State acts. And as for that, because when we find the owner of the land, and why I'm responsible for making proposals to the law, I'm speaking for the first time in this rostrum with a draft law. I didn't bring it in, and I didn't have the right, you know, Alexander Mikolayovich. Let us adopt this law, and then we will understand when and how our master will appear on earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u195	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Thank you, all right, time's up. I invite the head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, Vladimir Alexiyyovich Leschenko, to evaluate both bills. In five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u196	Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters, both projects have been carefully considered in the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. It should be noted that both governmental and parliamentary projects reveal the contents of the problem and deserve attention. However, a government project is so tight that it will be only understandable for engineering workers and at the same time not entirely suitable for practical application by other entities. There would be a need for legal acts. On the contrary, the bill is widely circulated, and in some articles it even resembles an instruction. Both projects have technical and legal flaws. For example, regarding a government bill. A number of regulations related to the organization of the earth are not available. State administration of the land administration, land administration control, dispute resolution, the specificities of land administration in respect of specific categories of agricultural land, forgetfulness, health, recreation, conservation, forest and water, industry, transportation, defence, and so forth. There are also no procedures for transferring projects into nature, no human resources, no legal responsibility, no damages. Well, there are other flaws that, by the way, are in the conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. And it's the management that recommends the project, it concludes that the project needs substantial work. There are also flaws in the MP's bill, which I've been talking about, for example, the issue of land-removal projects should be regulated in more detail. A number of articles are of a declarative nature. Well, there are other observations. On the basis of a review by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, we have come to the conclusion to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of draft 1043-1, a draft law on land administration introduced by the deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u197	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have a question for our colleague? If you have any, please sign in. I would ask that we complete our consideration of the matter, where four of us signed up for the discussion, and then took a break. Is there any objection? Thank you. Please point out who signed up. Eugene Kirilchuk, please, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u198	Thank you. Please tell me, Your Honor, how do you think these two bills relate to the local councils? Because both in the land code and in all the bills, somehow it's all in the background.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u199	It's in both of these bills that this is a question, but in our opinion, in a project by the people's deputies, there are more detailed roles and organs of government and local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u200	Thank you, Vladimir Alexiyovich. Let's move on to the discussion. Four national deputies were enrolled: Yuri Carmazin, please, the faction of our Ukraine, prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u201	Yuri Carmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! What we're discussing today is two bills and we have reason to compare two bills. I am addressing our long - suffering people of Ukraine, who do not know that two bills are being considered, which are different. And the difference between them, such as the sun and the moon, is such a healthy, healthy difference in favor of the bill passed by the People's Deputies Zubc, Gavrish, our democratic John Zaj and John Kirilenko. Because there are 31 articles, there are 72 articles. I'm not talking much, I'm talking about quality. The laws do not define the rights and responsibilities of entities in the land administration, such as government authorities, local self - government authorities, nor do they define the powers given to the work coordination body for the organization of the land administration. Instead, the MP’s bill prescribes these powers. I'm noting that it also has the authority of local government administrations in the field of land administration, it also has the authority of a central authority, it also has the authority of rural, rural, urban councils in the area of land administration. And at the end of the day, I hope that land inventory will be carried out, which will also be carried out for the purpose of detecting land that is not being used, is not being used rationally or is not being used for purpose. But I would still like to say, in order to be objective, that from this bill, in my opinion, we need to remove what we are giving the Cabinet of Ministers to order the exploration of land that is not used, where it is written, that is set up by the Cabinet of Ministers. That's what we have to do. Because from this high rostrum, I've been drawing your attention to the latest order of Prime Minister Kinach since November 21, 2002, number 679-R on the removal of the land in the Vodica Desert and the sale of it by ransom to the property of the Dynamo Football Club, where 22.36 ten hectares of land are given specifically to whom, where specifically, the villa was built, is practically built, which is now added to the land. [[Kiev]] I have not heard today that the President of the State is outraged by this situation and that this decision has been overturned. I did not hear that Janukovic was indignant about it and canceled this shameful criminal decision by Kinaha. No one did. Why? Scared of Bear? No need to be afraid, do not be afraid, but give this property to the people. Just when we see this inventory, I'm calling your attention once again, we need to adopt this law, we need to adopt this law, we need to get the law in place as soon as possible, and I'm going to ask you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u202	The word is given by Yuri Solomatin, a Communist faction. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u203	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Kyiv region Dear colleagues, when I was studying both of these bills, I was trying to find the answer to the question I was asked by the Biagradka spiders of the village of Biogradka Kyivo-Svetošin district of Kyiv district. The essence of this question is. There are several hundred pies. And it was as if he was an effective owner with whom they made a deal and sold out their pies. But the owner did not fulfill this covenant. A select group of about 50 or 60 people gathered and wanted to get out of this effective owner in order to start their own farming with some kind of whole wedge of land. Two days from now, there's going to be congregations in which somehow I don't understand, all the spiders are going to draw lots, and then what they're going to do with these lots, and they don't know what's going to happen. [[Anatoly, I'm addressing you because you're out of Kiev, out of Kiev.]] So I want to talk to you, Anatoly Stepanovich, and to you, Mikhail Vasilovich, to help me, and to get rid of these disadvantaged people, what to do with this question being resolved in a human way, so that they don't interrupt each other in these congregations, and don't look at each other in this village of Bilogrodica, and that's where it goes. When I finish my speech, I just want to say one thing. I personally and my faction for laws that would help disadvantaged people to resolve these issues in order to make people's relationships better, so that they don't look at each other as enemies. And I very much hope that these bills and, above all, the MP's bill will find the possibility of such relations and those conditions for human activity on earth to be found and legally established. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u204	Ivan Alexandrovich Rabbit of the Committee on Environmental Policy. Prepare the Teeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u205	Ivan Hare, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Movement. Dear head! Dear National Deputies! We're a little late to adopt this law, and it's very good that this bill is being considered today at the Supreme Council meeting. The fact is that for the first time, the country’s legislation was regulated in Ukraine in 1920. But in 1992, private property was introduced to the land, and land relations expanded considerably. So we need a document that could regulate the entire population of land relations today, starting with ownership issues and completing the protection of these lands. So this law is very relevant, and it is very necessary. Our committee considered a bill submitted by the government and considered a bill submitted by a group of national deputies. And the committee expressed its preference for the bill, which was passed by the people's deputies. And there's a lot of reasons for that. There's not a whole lot of issues settled in the government bill. There are rules of the most general nature, but there are no specific rules of direct action, there are no rules that would, for example, determine the powers of the authorities. In particular, local authorities. A number of important questions have been raised very poorly. With regard to the bill that was passed by the national MPs, it is a good bill, it can become a basis for accepting it in the first reading and working together, and for adopting it as a law. The bill defines the task of land administration, is based on the division of land into national, regional, local level, defines the rights and obligations of buyers and documentation developers, establishes the State Fund for Land Administration Documentation, regulates the provision of Earthquake services, establishes the basis of the source of land financing. [[This is a novelty for our Ukrainian legislation at all.]] I mean, it's a very complex bill that we need today. So I'm proposing that people's deputies accept the very version of the people's deputies, and that the issues that are in the government document use them to improve this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u206	Valentin Sergiyovich Zubov, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u207	Valentin Zubov, Yulia Timoshenko Block, Batkivščina Party. Dear colleagues! To be honest, I didn't want to or thought about it, but after hearing Mikhail Vasilevich and his bill, he decided to speak and that's why. First of all, I would like to say that I am inclined to support the decision and opinion of the two Bills Committee and to support the bill of the People's Deputies. But this is what Mikhail Aleksevic said in his speech as a very experienced, well-known agrarian named a number of major developments today in the agrarian sector, namely, the vast amounts of degraded land, the lack of a serious system, a well-thought sewerage system, the increase in the production of sunflowers that consume our land, I was simply impressed. Why? Because I, like my colleague Masenko, know that Mikhail Vasiljevic has had the most direct bearing on the formulation of our country's agrarian policy strategy over the past 12 years. And he knows the problem perfectly well. And the question is, was it not previously known that we would get these results at the very beginning of agrarian reforms? Of course, I knew it. What is the reason? I've already mentioned one example in the hall, in fact, and to those colleagues who are present at the meeting today, I will also remind them. Three years ago, I was in the United States of America with a sufficiently strong parliamentary delegation. The level was high enough, we met at the Senate, the United States Congress, the State Department, the National Security Council and even the Pentagon. So after each meeting, the Americans usually concluded the meeting: "All of you have o'key in Ukraine, we're looking after you, we'll help you, but here's when you start selling land?" And so every date. But when we heard that line once, let's say, in the State Department or in the Senate. It was clear that these were public servants who were obliged to take an interest in these problems. Indeed, our beautiful black people are very valuable to Americans. But when the deputy commander of the U.S. Army asked the same question in the Pentagon, we were all delighted. Why? Because this is a pattern, a real example of a civil servant, a patriot of his country. The military, which has nothing to do with land issues, raises these issues. Here, by adopting the Earth Code, those who voted for it have committed a State crime, I emphasize the country's betrayal, because what Mikhail Vasiljevic said today with knowledge of the case is a logical consequence of the adoption of the Earth Code. And of course, in the adoption of the Earth Code, I have for two seconds united the interests of two international forces and the interests of domestic national gang capital. The land today represents an interest in investing, an interest in consolidating its financial power for the future. Ukraine will long come out of this terrible situation. And these bills that we're talking about are just a logical consequence of the adoption of the Earth Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u208	Thank you. Anatoly Stepanovich, do you have a need for the closing statement? 30 seconds, please. Mikhail Vasilovich, will you speak? No, right? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u209	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I just want to say the next thing. Those national MPs who asked questions and made suggestions, I have a request, I'll take all those questions, we'll work it out, and we'll give you a concrete answer to your questions. And the fact that these two bills are similar to identical twins is true. I don't want to say anything anymore, but the bill that was sent by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Supreme Council directly, it's consistent with the ministries, with the committees, and as the people's deputies will be identified, it's a matter of every national MP. The important thing is that there is an effective law that has worked on Ukraine for our citizens, for our people. Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you to all the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, the review of the draft law on land administration has been completed. Decisions will be made taking into account the discussion during the vote. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00.
