ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:37]] Registered -363 There are 363 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a meeting scheduled for today. I'm governing the day. But we agreed that on Tuesday we would hear information from the government about the food market situation. But before that, dear fellows, I would like to announce a pleasant news, a pleasant event for all of us -- today is the birthday of the national deputy, the Jubilee of the National Deputy Tanjuk Leonid Stepanovich, Tanjuk Lesia Stepanovich, who is 65 years old. Let us welcome the outstanding politician and artist and wish him further creative and life’s success. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies, on the Conciliation Council. I'm asking everyone to register as national deputies and take their seats. We agreed that we would set a special order of work for this plenary week with a view to completing it successfully. You've been handed over draft decree number 3725. I ask you to vote for us to put this order on the agenda right now and make a decision on it. It's about some of the questions about the organization of the work of the Supreme Council on July 9-11, 2003. Please vote. Then we'll be motivated. I'd like your support, Your Honor. Please vote. [[10:04:45]] For-182 The decision is not taken. With a motive, please. Dear colleagues, let's all take turns. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u2	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! On the other hand, we ask you to create all the conditions in the organization of the work of the Supreme Council when we, after discussing a particular project, consider the arguments "for" and "against" we will immediately make decisions regarding support either in the first or in the second or in the third reading, or in the whole of the draft law. In order to do that, a member of our faction, Martinyuk, introduced a draft decree, number 2584, which provides for changes to the Rules, and these changes are intended for you and me to vote on this project after the discussion and not turn the Supreme Council into a voting machine. On Thursday we have 30 pages of draft laws, 100 laws at least we are considering. Clearly, quality suffers. That's why the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u3	Thank you. Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Stanislav Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u5	Stanislaw Nikolainko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u6	Nikolainka, a faction of socialists. The faction of socialists doesn't mind us actively working on the final phase of the session, but we've worked like this for the entire session. What am I trying to say? First of all, I insist that we consider tomorrow morning, as soon as possible, the agro-industrial complex, so that we don't get blamed for this, the Supreme Council, that we didn't take it so well, and that this village is killing us. It seems to me that these are naive child accusations that occurred yesterday and the day before from the media. And the next. We're in favour of modifying the full rules of the session, and I support Simone. We have to vote right after the discussion, and I'm going to call on the majority: we're going to vote the amendments to the Rules now, we're going to introduce them, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we're going to enter them from the next session, and then we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, the Turk Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We also support the proposal to now vote on Martinyuk's decision to amend Rule 3.2. 1 and to vote immediately after each bill has been discussed, as is the case in all civilised parliaments. In addition, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we did not see how we required a conciliatory council of 16 hours of information from prosecutor Piscoon. We want to know what is happening today with the Gongadze case, what is happening today with the drug trade in Ukraine run by Piscun and many other issues and, above all, what is happening with those who abuse the issue in the grain and food markets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u9	National Deputy Kachure, then Sobolev and we'll be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u10	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I don't think there's going to be any speculation after last Thursday that the factions that insisted on the first-line consideration of the grain market settlement package have been accused of a failure to vote, and I have this proposal: we have this constitutional reform all the time, we have problems in Ukraine. It was the local government that was engaged in constitutional reform and forced people into public discussion, during which time the whole grain was exported. Now the prices have risen, and the government is not doing it again, it is doing constitutional reform. So I have a proposal that we remove these questions that destabilize the hall from consideration, explain to the whole of Ukraine that the question of the extension of the term of the President of Ukraine is not of concern to us, first of all, but rather to the real economic laws, and this week we end up with a successful vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u11	Yes, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u12	"Our Ukraine," the Reform and Order Party. Dear friends! There's a great offer from our colleague Martinyuk to organize Parliament's work for all weeks. Our faction met in the morning and decided to support Martinyuk’s offer. We ask you to put it to a vote and not break it separately for weeks at a time when there is a vote and when there is no vote. It's different. On July 10th, the draft law on the amendment of the Constitution was re-established. I think we've had our discussions on factions, and on the Conciliation Council, we're only looking at the order of direction, not the draft changes to the Constitution. I'd like the agenda to be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u13	Yes, distinguished national MPs! Let us sum up our discussion. Regarding the organization of our work for this plenary week. We agreed on Friday, and on Thursday, all the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions that we would adopt a special order for this week, and from September 1st we would introduce the procedure according to the proposal of the national MP Martinyuk. That's the first one. I beg your attention, listen carefully. The other one. Dear colleagues! Regarding the proposal of the Turkinov People's Deputy. Yesterday we discussed this issue with only three factions who supported the proposal, the hearing of the Attorney General. You'll demand I put her to the vote. But it must be Parliament's decision, not one faction. With regard to the proposal of the People's Deputy Sobolev. We have come to understand and agree that we do not question the order of the first reading, the second reading, or the third reading. We ask the question, and then we consider whether it's a procedure or essentially a procedure. We came to the conclusion that this is essentially the case. And we don't have to make any other changes. Therefore, honourable national deputies, as proposed, I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and making decisions regarding the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 9 to 11 July 2003. This is project number 3725. Please vote. [[10:11:48]] For 217 The decision is not taken. I'll put it to a vote. Wait a minute! The factions. I don't have to tell you 20 times. All right, the trial's over. I am voting on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending Article 3.2. 1 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation number 2584. This is the Martinyuk People's Deputy's Project. [[10:12:36]] For 207 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Now I'm going to go round two and read it out loud. Calm down, please. Yes, please! I'm asking everyone to take their seats, please! The question is extremely serious. It's technical, but it's up to us to keep working. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and the decision on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on some of the issues of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 9 and 11 July 2003 at number 3725. Please vote. [[10:13:37]] For the 220. The factions. I'll put it to a vote. Your attention, please. Better vote, not agitate one another, but vote. I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine number 2584 amending article 3.2. 1 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine That the system isn't working, is it? Colleagues, I've announced, if it doesn't work, then we'll make a second offer, put it all down. Please calm down, the vote will be decided. There's a vote coming. [[10:15:14]] For 168 Dear colleagues, please listen carefully. Well, I'll do what you do, for God's sake. I once again put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending article 3.2. 1 of the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this is number 2584, the draft of the People's Deputy Martinyuk. Next time, if it doesn't work, we'll enter it next time. [[10:15:52]] For 211 Dear colleagues! Now we're going to go around again, but it's already with the proposal that was made. I'll put it to a vote. Calm down, everybody. Sit down. We'll vote for it. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and the decision on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on certain matters of organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 9 to 11 July 2003 number 3725. [[10:16:37]] For 218. I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend article 3.2. 1 Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 3584 with its introduction from September 1, that is, from the beginning of the fourth session. Let's be clear. [[10:17:13]] For-189 I'm making an offer. Please listen carefully, dear fellows. The proposal is to bring together two projects. That is, the draft regulation 3725 on the organization of our work in this plenary week, together with the draft decree of September 1, this year amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation of 2584. Please vote. [[10:17:58]] For-119 The decision is not taken. We're working in mode, we'll figure it out again tomorrow. I think so. Please, Frost. Would I ask you to make sure you're doing something together? Or something else you do, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! Obviously, the proposal to vote on the two decrees by one vote was wrongly put. We have to do this. Take one decision you have announced, either one project or another, and complete the other with other items in the second project. The same is true of two proposals in the same document. Not two orders to vote, but to vote on one regulation, in which a single paragraph shows the beginning of a vote under regulations amended in accordance with the regulation proposed by Adam Martinyuk from September 1st. And so you're announcing a draft decision that you've just named, which is supported by the majority. I think we're all going to support him, too, given that from the first number we have a different procedure in the regulation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, I suggest you do so. Since Monday, I want to remind you again, this Monday and last Thursday, it was agreed that we would set a special order of work for this plenary week, you authorized me, honourable leaders of the MP factions and groups, to make a draft decision. You didn't support her. That is why you have not supported either the Head of the Supreme Council or the authority of the Supreme Council, which you all are so keen about. I proposed to vote on Martinyuk's proposal. You didn't support it either. It's not clear what you want. So let's do it this way. That we will now hear information from the government. Gather around, please. Then we shall vote. The Office of the Ministers of Ukraine "On the situation in the food market of Ukraine" is under review. And you consult, you mobilize, and we'll make the right decision. The Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ivan Grigorovich, has the floor. Today's statement, we have no government day. I would ask you not to scream, to follow the rules, to calm down. Read the regulations, read the regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! As we agreed with you, today the government is informing the Supreme Council about measures to regulate the food market problems that arose at the end of June and the results of this work. Let me remind you, the main price increase took place in June 3, when prices not only for flour, grains, pasta, sugar, but also for individual regions, for bread. The demand for them and the volume of implementation, especially in large industrial centres, increased 6-7 times in June. The perceived inadequacy in the work of both local and central authorities was that with the daily price monitoring of these products, it was necessary to pay immediate attention to the sharp rise in the volume of their implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u17	Wait a minute! Ivan Grigorovich, one minute. Dear National Deputies! Maybe you're not interested in information, let's not listen to it. Are you interested in the information? Please sit in your seats or meet groups and factions quietly. You take care of the Ukrainian people. Please, give us an opportunity to report the information. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u18	Thank you. Thirsty demand could be predicted immediately, and additional resources needed to be diverted to more tense areas. This was done, but some delays and problems occurred. The other one. Speculation on increased demand was long forgotten. We're all used to the fact that private trade has long worked in conditions of severe competition, so a sharp rise in prices for goods of everyday demand should not be in principle when the market is saturated. This was thought and considered by numerous monitoring bodies at all levels of authority that should do so daily. Reacted, but again late and revealed numerous facts about the hiding of these products in the trading network in the hope that prices would grow even more. In these days the situation has not been maintained, the President's and the Government's orders for bread in three regions have been disrupted: the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, up to 15 and a half percent; the Dnipropetrovsky, 27 and a half; and the Zaporozhye region, 16.4. And this has become the third most painful lesson in calmness and irresponsibility. Today, there are government commissions in a number of regions that include qualified supervisors and law enforcement officials. There will be a special meeting of the government, which will give an extremely principled assessment of all these facts, including orgisms. It's now being determined why the drop price was immediately after harvesting and the peasants lost, why there was mass exports immediately after harvesting, why it was set to the Reserve at least in the absence of funds, which has led to such troubles today. And there's also a variety of speculations and social advances. No doubt the decisions will be such that they will not be repeated in the future. The next task, both the government and the local authorities, is to stabilize the situation and to return the prices to the level of those who were before the start of the survey, as well as in a number of areas created artificially. And these are the previous findings of the committees that are already there today. Today, as a result of the urgent measures that have been taken in these days, the price levels of grains and flour have stabilized in most regions. A stable situation in the sugar market. Over the past week, the wholesale price has dropped by 10 percent. The government, the local authorities, directed to the consumer market as many as possible lots of flour, crumbs, pasta, sugar. I am responsible for saying that we have enough power, resources and capabilities to keep the situation stable and stable. In July alone, 66,000 tons of flour is directed from the Reserve, as in all previous months combined, 7 tons of grains, 20,000 tons of sugar. That's 20 percent of the need for the country's food market for this period. At the same time, 10 percent is enough for active interventions. The head of government has already given appropriate instructions to specific authorities to check the targeted and targeted use of this assistance by the State. The legal arrangements will also take place during the days, and another 200,000 tons of sugar will reach the consumer market. Its price will be at a cross-cutting level during the current month. The harvest began in Ukraine. Harvesting takes place in six southern regions. In addition to the seed, the first batches of new crop grain will be directed at production, including pomegranates. It is convenient for manufacturers and processors today. The market saturation on this product group will be on August. At the same time, they will be set on a consumer-friendly label and price. Songs of corruption: Greek, millet, rice - shaped will come to the consumer in September. In view of the increase against last year in two, three times the area below can be expected to fall even against the level of 2002. The basic question is the price of bread. In areas where it has been increased, energy measures are used to restore prices to the previous level. Thus, in the Dnipropetrov region of the last two days, prices for bread have dropped from 2 percent to 6 percent and continue to decline. Here we decided to pay the grant to defenseless groups of people who lost their prices. A specific decision was taken by the Crimea government, which regulates the commercial allowances and the cost-effectiveness of the production of bread in bulk. In short, with regard to the stabilization and reduction of bread prices in certain regions, the governors have a deadline for government meetings. This is the case with the government's priority response measures. It is stabilizing today because it is under strict control personally by the head of the government, gradually relieves the tension. The following actions of the government include the creation of strong and stable government resources for grain and food in general. The President is absolutely right to point out that the state chamber should be valuable and sufficiently filled, especially with regard to the food group. With a large crop last year, the price of the waste was placed in the state’s stakes, for several years in the midst of the Derereserves, in fact, was not financed. Today’s government has a determined purpose in supporting the Supreme Council to overcome this negative. Today, you will be considering draft laws that allow you to search for an additional 400 million. New crop from the national producer to the State Reserve. These and plus the self-renewal costs of resources, the government intends to clearly target the creation of a threefold reserve of grain, grains. Butter and sugar. Similar actions are required of local authorities. We are convinced that such resources will make it impossible to see a crisis in the food market of the state. Next. The weather of the last days has greatly improved the situation in the winter field in the center, north, and west. The forecast will be reviewed accordingly. Still, part of the food grain will have to be transported. Worked by the authors of a number of projects, government, basic committees, the only bill will be distributed to you on Wednesday. He's liberal, he's transparent and he's democratic. By adopting it as a law by the end of the session, you will allow the government and the heads of the region to organize the work immediately, including financing, lending, the search for effective sources and qualified performers. By opening up the market, creating conditions for broad competition for entrepreneurial structures by applying antimonopoly legislation, we will solve the problem of a stable supply of bread to new crops. Next. The government is aware that the grain market should be civilized in modern times. And you are witnessing that the new government from the first days of its work has dealt with this particular problem. Along with you, we worked together on how many legislative and regulatory acts were taken together five years earlier. First, we will continue to closely monitor the movement of grain through the declaration system introduced from the New Year. In fact, more than a million tons of food grain was declared at the beginning of last month. This is enough for the market to be full of new crops. And we have enough power to keep the situation stable and controlled. This month, a new system of warehousing documents is being introduced into the grain. The simple and double testimonies that characterize the responsibility for preserving the grain will be another guarantee that the peasant will not be deceived. In addition, the composite testimony will also be a reliable collateral for obtaining credit in banks, including mortgaged international transactions with grain. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a painful problem that has erupted in the grain market. But we're not insured that tomorrow it won't happen in any other food segment. So the government is now working hard on all food balance, especially animal production. This is done for the first time in years of independence. The situation is also unforgivable. With apparent well - being due primarily to the lack of sufficient food in the first half of the year, the population, including the population, continues to fall to the ground. There is a further collapse of purchasing prices. The government is starting to pay substantial subsidies for the processing of meat from cattle and pigs of the right condition. And we're going to increase that position. We're going to cancel the bird farming grant and we're going to hand it over to the big horned cattle and pigs to keep this is the market segment. But additional regulatory measures will also be needed to ensure that the state’s meat resources are not lost for subsequent periods, otherwise there may be crises again, other negative trends. In this connection the Law on Meat and Meat, which was already adopted in the first reading, would be very appropriate. It would be possible to find out specific details, accept them, and give the government mechanisms for modern regulation of the meat market. The current situation in agriculture. The bread was cut in the first hundred, thousands of hectares. It's better looking like a Crimea that collects up to 18 centrifuges from a hectare of early grains. Worse still, the first cracks in the southern areas. On that date, about two and a half million tons of hay and more than three and a half million tons of mustard were produced. This is less than a year ago, but more than we predicted, given the difficult weather conditions. And today, after the rains, there is an opportunity to significantly improve the feeding balance. And we, the government, are doing this together with the local authorities. Another disaster this year is locusts. Its largest habitat remains in the Zaporozhye and Hersonian regions. Over 37,000 hectares have been processed in recent days. The government has directed an additional 2 million dollars to combat this phenomenon, additional funds will be needed, and we will help more. Prepared technique for harvesting, harvesters, grain harvesters 88 percent, feeders 90 percent. The agrocomplex is fully fueled with fuel and gasoline. The price is good. The main issue and the main problem that we have to solve, and we're going to solve it, is preparation for the autumn sown, and the most responsible one is seeding. At the same time, appropriate work by government and local authorities is being done today. The lack of seed for particularly affected areas will help to cover Crimea, isolated central areas, and other areas. A suitable transfer of seed resources with the regions has already been arranged. The possible deficit will have to be covered by the introduction of the seeds of the regional varieties. A number of relevant agreements have already been signed this week, including a seed reserve, and we will also channel it to the appropriate resources. These days, the government and the National Bank will complete the development of village-friendly credit extension models by October of next year and an additional tranche of credit resources for the next merger. Let me remind you that by October of next year, 16 percent of the population will be compensated by the State for the symbolic 2-3 percent. Of course, the 2003 visual lesson will be the absence of an agricultural insurance system for agrarians. With the appropriate state support proposed in the decision you will be voting tomorrow, these modern market mechanisms need to be put in place as early as next year. Agriculture, which is a guarantor of the food security of the state, is in urgent need of long - term credit, a modern approach to subsidies, and other support for its activities. Entering the WTO, liberalizing the internal market, losing most of the benefits, we all and other mechanisms should work with you as soon as possible. A number of them are provided for in the basic law and our joint decree, which will be voted on. Of course, the brief interim information describes what has been done in the last 4 to 5 days. We will examine in detail and thoroughly the consequences of the measures and joint action that have been taken on the first day of the government’s next session. And to the end. In our hands, the social harmony and well-being of the people. Dear colleagues! We're not going to allow this speculation, because it's food, it's bread. Together we are to deal with the consequences of these problems and phenomena and to ensure a stable situation. Despite the difficult conditions that are still ahead of us today with the adoption of the bill package, we have the opportunity not only to quickly correct the situation but also to lay the foundation for the future growth of the agricultural sector. Please have your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u19	Let's write it down on the question, 15 minutes goes into it. Please turn on the system to write. Light up, please. The miner, the next Kalinchuk. Please, this is Gunnery Eugene's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u20	Dear John Grigorovich. The miner, the valley constituency, the faction of our Ukraine. In your speech, you talked about the intervention of grain, flour, a bunch of wood in the region for the purpose of price regulation. Please explain how this intervention or any selected companies is going through, is there any investigation at which prices they're still running it, or is there any sort of tender organized so that anyone can win this tender and put out this food crisis? And the second question. At the time of the export of the seed, the traders paid 1.5 billion dollars. You're planning to buy grain now. What about this VAT, this same grain is going to be purchased by the same traders, wouldn't they have to price the VAT paid to them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u21	Thank you for asking. Short answer. Today, intervention in the food grain market is made by a grain of wood, not by grain, but by flour. The price of flour was set in March when the first tension took place in seven areas of food grain. The price is 985 for the flour of the upper class, 860 for the flour of the first class. Intervention takes place in regions that need it. The Council of the Regions decided that the application was signed personally by the head of the district, the head of the state administration. An operator is appointed to import this product and then the flour is distributed to a bread plant to stabilize the price of bread. I want to report again, given what this decision has been made, we have a stable price for bread for three or four months. I said these regions that allowed a break and the price is coming back now. Regarding the import of grain. We worked with you, including representatives of your faction and the budget committee, and the agrarian committee, to draft a law that is fully harmonized with the requirements of Ukrainian legislation when importing VAT will be paid at the border crossing. Only import duties are being replaced in order to diversify the sources of imports into Ukraine of possible cereals. Therefore, VAT benefits are not anticipated at import. Once voted in the Hall, that is the right of national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u22	Basil Calinchuk, please, the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u23	Thank you. Calinchuk. Clothing. The faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Dear John Grigorovich, in your information, you said that the harvest in southern Ukraine had already begun. But we know well that, at the same time as the start of the harvest, preparations are being made for the sowing of winter crops. And now that the harvest is coming, we have to prepare the seeds, we have to switch from one region to another, buying this seed. To that end, we have foreseen with you, and the government has decided to issue loans. And to that end, there are compensation costs, provided for in the decree. Sadly, though, today’s credits are not received by farmers. So if you can answer the question, why is there no longer a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to obtain loans to prepare for the autumn work? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u24	Dear Vassil Antonovich, you have raised the very relevant question that could now be asked in this room. This is really the most pressing issue. We have to plant crops so that we don't have this kind of trouble and we don't have to be in the stands here to justify ourselves. And the government will do that, and we will have the crops that were in 2001. I'm telling you this from this rostrum. Indeed, seeds, mineral fertilizers, and poisoners are provided for by a special lending regime. There was a meeting yesterday at the National Bank, where the latest mechanisms will be worked out, on which principles, what agreements should be signed, what is the term "injured agriculture" and what is an additional tranche of credit below 18 percent of the age-olds, where 16 take over the state. I'm officially telling you that this week's government will have the appropriate documents in place. The supplementary lending regime will be extremely favourable, because these are the foundations of food security for the coming periods. And this government will do anything not to stand in this rostrum and justify itself and someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u25	He's a craftsman. May I have your attention, please? ND faction. "Ours."Ukrainian Regions."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u26	Yeah, yeah. Volodymyr Mystrishyn, Žmerinské constituency number 14. Ivan Grigorovich, please tell me that the World Bank loan, $200 million, is now being processed to support the village. That's the question. Please tell me, what laws do we need to adopt so that this loan is actually taken, and on what terms will the loan be subject to this loan? I don't think anyone here needs to be convinced that the village today is suffering from short-term loans. With the possibility of lending money to the World Bank today under 10-15 years of age at a fairly low rate, there will be real aid to the village. That's the first question. And the second. You said in your speech that there was no purchase plan for the Reserve. That's why the plan wasn't implemented, on the one hand. And on the other hand, who's going to be doing an intervention in the grain market today is going to be a Dereservation, it's going to be the Bread of Ukraine. Who really is, and what must be done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u27	Thank you, colleague, for asking. The first question was about borrowing. If this is a World Bank loan for land reform, it's really about $200 million, issues solved. The credit was extremely favourable for Ukraine, and the agreement remained to be signed. The terms of Ukraine all have been amended to some extent by the government's decision on a single registration system corresponding to the President's decree there is. And we hope that the signing of this agreement will remain formal in order to obtain this loan, so that we can have land reform to our full potential. If you're referring to that loan that the Prime Minister said from the rostrum and Mikola Janović Azarov confirmed that this is an additional loan, if you mean, first, then I answered that question. The other one. The conditions are extremely convenient for you. As far as intervention is concerned, who's going to do it and why it happened, what's not set. We are now doing a study of the situation of why this happened, now from the archives of the paper collection, where it was commissioned to purchase a million tons of DAC “Ukrainian Bread” of half a million tons of grain at the most favourable time for the peasant, but this commission was not carried out. The reason is banal. There wasn't enough, and there was no funding for the state reserve at all. That's why the state reserve bought 200,000 tons instead of tons -- this is the previous information that we're currently investigating, the relevant authorities are conducting investigations in this respect. The second question. The government's actions after filling the state chamber -- I said, three times we're going to put it in the storeroom so that it's never going to happen again, we're going to put in croplets that have never been put there, increased amounts of butter, and now we're going to look at the meat reserves. Question three. Whoever does intervention operations on this market will certainly make a state reserve that will have a three-fold reserve of reserves, and a state agent that is defined, a state-owned shareholding company called the Bread of Ukraine. It has loans today, there are arrangements that will get these loans, and there will be collateral transactions with grain on the types that will push on the market and do procurement interventions. The government's decision is taken, the regulatory framework is, the credit resources are accumulated, the actions will be appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u28	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u29	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear John Grigorovich, we have a time-consuming, sacramental question: "Who is to blame?" And "What do you do?" - more attention is always given to "who is to blame." You're more focused on the question, "What do you want to do?".. But I'd like to go back to our favorite question, "Who's to blame?".. Please tell me. And why I want to focus on this because no one is insured against what's going to happen again. Please tell me. You are a wise man who works hard in agriculture. What are the structures that work in agriculture -- please call them specific structures -- at such a sharp price jump, they've gotten fairly decent incomes and profits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, at the outset, I focused on why this happened and who will suffer the punishment. I'm speaking clearly and again. In the 10 regions of Ukraine today, there are appropriate government and law enforcement authorities working to find out. For bread was sold not only for the Christians but also in the regions. And this price also exploded in the regions. Thus, I can say earlier that there was no objective reason for this to happen in a number of areas. For the guilty, why did it happen to the Reserve, why did it happen to the mortgage operations, why, at the price that was infested after harvesting, with export, it'll be known at the government meeting next week. [[There is a fact that the export took place but the grain did not leave the country, such facts are being investigated]] We will sum up this work, and the guilty will definitely be punished accordingly. That's what I can tell you. Next week. Let us work another week in this regard. And I would like the government that controls the situation, along with Parliament, to decide the issues that are being dealt with, and that, honourable colleagues, we do not increase the speculation around this issue, because there is a lot of artificial, and around the exacerbation of the situation is artificial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u31	Orest Klimpush, National Authority MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u32	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd like to give the floor to my colleague Vasil Gavriluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u33	Vasil Gavriluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u34	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Ivan Grigorievich, please tell us why there were no appropriate rules when you were Minister of the APC in 2001. Why did the government, in charge of you, the agrarian bloc I mean, not take action in January-February, know that there would be problems today? Why is the tendering that you do in the market today not at market prices, but at underpriced, where it is clear that certain companies are making money? Why are you finally trying to say today, or is the Minister of the APC saying that quotas also need to be imported into our country today? What you're talking about today is what it takes. Do you not think that the entire agrarian bloc, the government in charge with you, will have the courage to write a statement and resign. This will be a once-in-a-lifetime demonstration that you realize that you have not taken action in time. Today, people in the country are suffering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u35	Thank you, colleague. Considering that you represent the parliamentary majority, you know, the deal that's signed. Please align this issue with the parliamentary majority, the quota for these positions. As I'm told, it won't work. Agree to the question, this is the quota of the Agrarian Party. I'll make a proper application as soon as possible. It's not a problem for me. As for 2001, when I was a minister. I'm responsible, you're conducting an investigation now, raise the order of the minister who first introduced a market trade on the grain market in Ukraine. Then, under the pressure of various circumstances, the transparent pattern of grain movement had to be reversed and removed in 2001. As far as vehicle quotas are concerned. There is no quota for the car. Read the law that we are proposing with you to adopt. The market opens, only the duty is taken off. Please, any market structures that can be imported. At the price of flour. The price of flour is determined in such a way that the 70 percent that go to intervention in the region can be held back by the price of bread, which is determined in March months in a stable way. It is stable today. Dude, thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u36	Victor Razwadowski, Democratic Initiatives
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u37	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Ivan Kirilovich, I have the following question to you: How many grains will you bring to food products? At what price? And exactly where and will there be limited exports? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u38	Today, the price situation in Ukraine is that exports will simply be economically unfavourable because domestic prices are sufficiently motivated for agricultural producers. I believe that the export volumes of new crops, especially early crops, can be completely limited in relation to a favourable price environment. With regard to late crops, sunflowers and corn. If there's enough of them and there's an excess, there's a possible export, if it's convenient for an agricultural producer. It's about how long it's gonna take. The forecasts are now being reviewed, the rains that have passed have greatly fixed the situation in the center, in the west and in the north, and we expect larger congregations. That bill that's being proposed is liberal in terms of what we're doing in terms of what we're taking in respect of the grain of Ukraine into those areas that are now in need of it, they can take it. Please. There's no problem with that. The government will not issue any quotas or licenses to prevent abuses in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u39	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u40	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Ivan Grigorovitch, you've noticed correctly: most have already begun to give up the government, you've noticed it quite correctly. I wanted to point out the second thing is that this government first robbed people in the country, and today they robbed a city that pays for these products. I want to ask you, what are the grain stocks left in Ukraine? And when there was a statement in the first quarter of the Socialist faction about a possible dangerous situation in the bread market, some people just laughed. Why didn't the government respond to the right statement anyway? Was it that way for someone? And the last. Even so, most of the people said it right, and they're already talking to their own people, so why doesn't anyone resign, who's allowed it, and who's responsible for the food market? Why is that?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u41	Answering the first question. As early as March, when the new government introduced the declaration of grain stocks, we saw that in March months, in fact, we have a lot of tension in individual regions. And already, in March, interventions from the state reserve began to take place. That's why both your statement and our actions remain undetected. And since March, we have maintained the situation. As for the supplies that I have told you today in my speech on June 1st, on July 1st, we have information on the day, we have over a million tons of grain in subjects that store more than 50 tons. The monthly demand is about 500,000 tons. The calculations show that we have enough to sustain the situation. To knock down this widespread demand, which is elsewhere artificially blown up. And as for another time of punishment for the guilty. I told you, next week's government meeting. Now there are appropriate commissions working, because here, both central authorities and local authorities, we're going to fully investigate the situation and you can be sure that the guilty will be punished accordingly, I said in my speech, all the way to the orgies. This is quite possible as a result of the commission’s work today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u42	Thank you. Have a seat. Time's up. Dear colleagues, you have heard the information as we agreed, tomorrow we will make the appropriate decision on this matter and other legislative acts that are necessary to improve the situation on. Now we're going to finish the second one, and then you're going to make your proposal from. a series of questions Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for your attention and your seats. I'll put you to the vote, you better mobilize people. I said I'd put it to a vote. Please sit down, I beg of you. I'll put it to a vote after that, I told you. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? After all, sit in your seats. Now I'm going to put a question to the vote so you don't tell me you don't understand. In accordance with the decision of the Conciliation Board, I introduced a draft decision proposing that the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be established on 9 and 11 July 2003. I put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda and the decision-making process. This is the draft of Decree 3725. Please vote. Vote, please. [[10:53:18]] For 238. Decision taken. I'm voting for a ruling, please vote number 3725. [[10:53:40]] For 234 Decision taken. The factions. I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend article 3.2. 1 The Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations are a draft of the National MP Martinyuk, with only one warning that this decree has been introduced since September 1st. [[10:54:15]] For 199 The decision is not taken. Timoshenko's procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u43	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we've heard Kirilenko's speech today and we've clearly understood, and in every government official's speech, it's echoing that there are organizations and people who are guilty of creating a price crisis in the food market. I don't understand why we haven't invited the Attorney General in two weeks, who has to report on who's responsible for this extraordinary food price crisis. And the question is to the Attorney General, not just those involved in the price crisis. There is a question of the drug business, where it is already clear that it was the Attorney General who signed on to the nonexistence of people who were taken with 20 pounds [20 kg] of drugs. We now request that the Attorney General be invited to inform the Supreme Council, to report to the Supreme Council on three issues, including the death of Georgia Gongadze. If this is not satisfied now, there is no need to vote on the subject. We are in the order of the day for the session that reports and information provided for in the Constitution are automatically placed in the agenda. Our faction will make a protest about this. At 4: 00 p.m. the Attorney General should be invited to the information.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u44	Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? Dear National Deputies! We had this question, I want to remind you again, we didn't discuss it once, last time on the Conciliation Council yesterday. During the discussion of the proposal of National Deputy Timoshenko Yulia, Volodymyrna was supported by three factions, three factions. Others spoke for what they needed to hear, but at a different time. But since Timoshenko insists on this issue, I am voting. This is a matter of vote, yet to be decided by the Supreme Council, please calm down. I say again, listen, we made a deal yesterday. I'm voting to hear the Attorney General's briefing on the state of law in Ukraine at 4:00. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. What are you holding up? What are you dissatisfied with? Yesterday the Conciliation Council did not make a decision on this matter. Obviously, we agreed that the session room should be accepted. [[10:57:13]] For-94 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. With the Mikola Kravchenko procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u45	What's up? Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'm asking you a question. Let me tell you, I'm talking to the Speaker. The media have launched an all-out campaign against the Supreme Council, claiming to be responsible for all the troubles that are being created in the food market today. And today, Vladimir Mihajlovich, you have done a great deal to raise the image of the Supreme Council, but today, as you hold a session with people, it seems that it is indeed the Supreme Council that is to blame. The one the Prime Minister showed us. This pioneer report, which he declared to us and you quickly removed it from the rostrum, went to other issues, quickly removed the Attorney General from the case, you understand Vladimir Mihajlovich, let the Supreme Council wash away. We are not to blame for allowing this failure, they knew that they are both responsible for the officials who are receiving large sums of money today. And there's nothing to cover for them, Vladimir Mikhailovich. And today is not how we are going to vote these three days, today is how we are going to get out of this conflict, including with the clean face of the Supreme Council coming out of this conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u46	Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u47	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Everyone sees that there's a complete anarchy in Ukraine, the government doesn't know what to do in the market, you don't know what to do in the Supreme Council. Let's at least stop this anarchy a little bit, if BUT makes any kind of determination, proposal, so this is a proposal for a state of law -- this is one question, about Gongadze, this is another completely different question, explain what we need to hear from the Attorney General. At least we need to make any decision without a BIT, her number, so that we can read it. You can't do that, my friends. We're only doing worse. Do you think that from what you've been through and we're going to vote for three days something will get better? Nothing gets any better, it's only gonna get worse, and we're telling you all the time that it's anarchy in which Parliament works, it's only making things worse in the country. So I'm asking you a lot, although some basic standards let's stick to it. Let them make a draft decision, which information they want to hear, and we'll see if we can support it. But the state of law is something like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u48	Thank you, microphone. I'd like that. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I'd like the National Deputy of Assadchev to demonstrate, to a lesser extent, his professional level and his tolerance. And for National Deputy Assadchev, personally, I want to explain that there was no decision on the Conciliation Council, only three factions supported the hearing proposal. I beg you to listen. About hearing the Attorney General's information on the formulation that I just said about the state of law. But since this proposal was not supported at the Conciliation Council, then we concluded that if the faction persisted, we would put this question to a vote to hear this information in this wording, not in another. And that was confirmed by the leaders of MP groups and factions. And I don't have to keep telling you the level of work of the Supreme Council! You're this level of the Supreme Council, you're dropping it all the time. I'd like to answer to the national deputy of Kravchenk. On the Conciliation Council, it was again agreed that we would listen to information for 11 minutes. Then it was possible to ask a question for 15 minutes. Who takes whom away from responsibility? Again, I want to ask the honourable national MPs, let's not insult each other and work as we have determined. Upon request, two factions — the Socialist Party and the Yulia Block — are called a 30 - minute break. The leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions are requested to meet in the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Invite the national deputies to the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you of the results of the meeting of the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions. May I have your attention, please? Virtually all the leaders of the MPs and factions said that the Supreme Council would have a working environment. What if the reporter says we'll listen to him? At least within the limits of what's possible. That's the first one. The other one. We agreed that the remarks and instructions concerning the Head of the Supreme Council, when this does not apply to procedural matters, and the expression of its own perspective and position will not be. Once there is a breach of procedure, then we have a Regulatory Committee to make appropriate comments to the Head. Especially in that form, as all of this is done, is brutal in part. Third. We agreed that in the next September session, the Attorney General would inform the Supreme Council of matters related to the activities of the Attorney General’s Office and the exercise of the powers placed on the Attorney General’s Office. Did I inform you correctly, Your Honor? That's right. Then we move on to the agenda. I want to read the State's Attorney's Office Act carefully, there's no report, there's information. And the rules are in order. The Rules provide for a report. And we agreed that this would be information. And how to manage information is the will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's being announced before the government's Day -- the move to take action on Ukraine's entry into the WTO. A professional committee suggests that the question of an hour and a half should be considered, such as giving the rapporteur 15 minutes for information and 30 minutes for the answer to written and oral questions. For a speech by the head of the profile committee, take up to five minutes, and hold a debate for 20 minutes. Is there no objection? For information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Minister of Economics and European Integration of Ukraine Valeriy Ivanovich Horoshkovsky has the floor to inform Ukraine about the steps taken to introduce Ukraine to the WTO. Please, Valery Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u50	Your Honour, Mr. Head, Members of Parliament, Members of Government, Guests! If for some time someone wants to define the current period of development of the world trading system, they're likely to call it the "period of developing multilateral trade relations." Today, the issue of bilateral trade in tet-a-tate becomes increasingly difficult. The numerous trade and economic unifications of one or another group, the countries that are emerging in our eyes almost every day, are also a sign of time. The world’s largest trade organization. The WTO has set itself a task of taking into account the interests of all countries and establishing a fair trading system on earth. In the Global Economic Outlook 2002 report, the World Bank estimates the overall growth in prosperity as a result of the cancellation of all trade barriers of $2.8 trillion in ten years. In doing so, more than half of this growth will befall developing countries. Of course, these are estimated calculations, but they are, according to the Director General of the SOT. Click to add and configure a new Talker (speech synthesizer). clearly indicate the direction: the liberalisation of trade, accompanied by an appropriate internal macroeconomic policy on a real legislative basis, is vital to countries that want to break free from poverty and move towards sustainable development. Acting on this recipe and in line with the recommendation of Parliamentary hearings on the state of preparation for Ukraine's entry into the world trade organisation, the government has intensified bilateral and multilateral negotiations with WTO member countries. Multilaterally held meetings on technical barriers to trade in March 2003, sanitary and phytosanitary measures in April 2003, and commercial aspects of intellectual property rights in June 2003. Such discussions are objectively speeding up the process of entry because they contribute to a better understanding of the WTO’s position in these sectors and reconciliation of issues. On July 1, 2003, Ukraine signed 13 bilateral protocols on access to goods and services markets. Of course, the signing of the Protocol with the European Union on 18 March 2003 and the conclusion of negotiations and the signing of protocols with Poland, Bulgaria and Brazil are expected to be important in terms of the impact on the future of the negotiations. Negotiations with Ecuador are under way with Australia, Argentina, Estonia, Kyrgyzstan, Cuba, Lithuania, Moldova, Norway, the United States, Thailand, Turkey, Switzerland, and Japan. In general, about 95 percent of the trade tariffs are agreed on in bilateral negotiations. The results of the negotiations on goods are being reviewed and approved by the Customs Tariff Council. I would like to give you examples of agreements reached. The average effective rate, i.e. the current import duty, is 10.55 percent throughout the product nomenclature. The average is 5.64 percent. These are the calculations made on the basis of 2002. As a result of the negotiations, the average arithmetic rate of the end-linked level will be 6.28 throughout the nomenclature, and the average is 5.09. As you can see, this is about lowering the average rate by 0.55 percent of everything. Looking at groups of goods, the average wage on agricultural goods will decrease by 8.89 percent. At the same time, industry will even increase by 0.05 percent. Let me remind you that the entire working group is almost 50. Of these, 20 countries are actively negotiating with Ukraine today. In theory, any SOT member country may wish to establish certain arrangements under a bilateral protocol. On the other hand, signing such an important document as the protocol with the United States can convince other countries to put a dot and agree to Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization. In negotiations with the United States of America today, there are two key issues that prevent the signing of a bilateral protocol. This is a problem of importing bird meat and protecting intellectual property, including the production of laser disks. The American side made it clear that without addressing these issues, it would be difficult for us to move forward in the negotiation process. And on the contrary, by solving these two problems, we will get economic and political advantages in return, such as cancelling Jackson-Venic's amendment, the market economy status, and so on. Ukraine’s active position has already allowed concrete steps to be taken in this direction. Parliamentary hearings on March 19 have activated the most important component on Ukraine’s path to WTO, the cooperation of the legislative and executive authorities in this process. Regardless of the results achieved and the increasing intensity of the negotiations, progress in internal reforms will be crucial for the completion of the WTO accession process within the deadlines set by the President. This applies in particular to the harmonization of legislation with WTO treaties. To date, several very important laws have been adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine: amending certain Ukrainian laws on taxation, production and circulation of excise goods, amending the Ukrainian Food and Food Quality and Safety Act, confirming compliance with the requirements of the Trade Technical Barriers Agreement, the Ukrainian Customs Code. The regulatory environment in the area of commercial aspects of intellectual property rights has undergone major positive changes. During the period 2001-2003, the Supreme Council passed 8 laws in this area, the last of which was on May 22, 2003. A multilateral meeting on trade aspects, intellectual property rights in June 2003 was an opportunity for the Ukrainian delegation to present our achievements in harmonising legislation with TRIPS rules on intellectual property rights. At the same time, draft laws such as the Ukrainian Tax Code, amending certain Ukrainian laws on the creation and functioning of special economic zones and the introduction of special investment regimes in priority development areas, amending the Ukrainian Law on the Promotion of Rural Development 2001-2004, amending the Banks and Banking Act, distributing audiovisual works and phonograms. On June 19, 2003, the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered the second reading, but unfortunately did not praise the Law on Licensing and Control of Imported Disks for Laser Reading Systems. As noted above, the solution to this issue is not only a key moment in the negotiations with the United States but also an important influence on other partners in the negotiating process. The Cabinet of Ministers can also blame itself for some delay, such as the introduction of a bill on information agencies. Here again, I would like to stress the enormous importance of fruitful cooperation between the government and Parliament. The joint parliamentary-government institutions that have been created in preparation for the entry into the WTO have contributed greatly to such cooperation. In particular, there are eleven members of the inter-ministerial commission and seven members of the Customs Council. The government is constantly monitoring and analysing foreign trade laws to comply with WTO agreements. Regrettably, unexpected and difficult situations arise when a bill is brought before the Supreme Council that threatens negotiations or goes against the process of harmonization of legislation with WTO standards. At the same time, Ukraine is at the final stage of the process of entry into WTO. Therefore, there is a particular need for policy decisions regarding the acceptance and compliance of commitments that will be included in the report of the working group and the introduction protocol. It is worth noting that the vast majority of such commitments are standard for the entry of any country. They usually apply to the obligation to comply with all the rules and regulations of the relevant WTO agreements since the introduction to the organization. This means, in particular, that harmonization of legislation should be made taking into account the preparation of the working group’s report. It is now possible to predict that compliance obligations will be included in the draft report. the regime on taxation of goods, liberalisation of exports, enforcement of customs valuation rules, rules on technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, protection of intellectual property rights, subsidies, import licensing, etc. Risk biases related to Ukraine’s entry into the WTO for the national economy and the preparation of all its free - market sectors are at this stage a priority for the government. Mine economists, along with the ministries and other central executive authorities, conducted an analysis of the possible impact on Ukraine’s economy of obligations under the signing of protocols with the WTO working group. The material of this analysis was presented at parliamentary hearings on Ukraine’s preparations for the entry into WTO on March 19, this year. The analysis shows that if positive economic trends and the pace of internal reforms are maintained, the effects of changes in the tariff system will not become destructive or unexpected for Ukraine’s economy. Moreover, the transition period for Ukraine will be from 2 to 7 years. Key factors that will determine the pace of industrial development as a whole, as well as individual sectors, will remain internal economic factors. The Institute for Economic Forecasting of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine is also involved in the analysis of the possible consequences of Ukraine’s accession to WTO for agriculture. According to the Institute’s experts, the risks of entering the Institute will usually be short - term. For the long term, WTO membership will contribute to economic growth, the integration of the national agro-industry complex into the world agro-food market system, and most importantly, it will ensure priority rural development and the preservation and restoration of land. Because that's what the most agricultural subsidies in developed countries are defined for, and it's spent, and I'm sorry. And this direction of funds is by no means limited by the agreements of the WTO. I would like to inform the honourable meeting about the government’s implementation of two more points of the parliamentary hearing recommendation. This is about providing information and training for professionals from the U.S.S.A. Without exaggeration, we can talk about an information campaign about the process of Ukraine’s entry into the WTO, which is being launched and is being carried out in the country. The ministries and authorities are actively involved in it through a series of public events, round tables, and so forth, particularly in the regions. You know, it's initiated by the Ministry of Economics, a series of seminars -- Ukraine-SOT, Business Interests. And three were already held in Lviv, Donetsk, and Kharkiv. There is an explanatory work being done in the media. Several conferences and round tables were held directly in the Supreme Council, particularly on the theme "Ukraine and WTO. Introduction question" June 4, 2003. I mean. That in this regard, we are doing enough work with the committee, the corresponding committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for which I am grateful to the members of this committee and colleagues, in terms of coordinating efforts with the Supreme Council. For all interested, the Ministry of Economics supports the web page "Ukraine and WTO" on the Internet. Here you can find information about the status of the negotiating process, the texts of the WTO treaties, analytical materials, news of events in Ukraine as part of the process of joining the WTO and information on the organization’s activities. In the last few months, there have been positive developments in contact with domestic business representatives. The ministries and authorities are increasingly asked to explain a particular point in the introductory process, to provide answers, to generalize, analyse and take into account them. At the same time, training and skills of government officials are being improved with the involvement of domestic and foreign professionals. A few words about the schedule of further work as part of the introduction of Ukraine to WTO. A monitoring session of the working group is scheduled for August 2003. We expect the secretariat of the SOT to present a draft report to the working group at this meeting. At that time, there will be a multilateral sectoral meeting on agriculture. The WTO working group’s next meeting, as well as the multilateral customs meeting, are scheduled for October 2003. September 10-14, Cancún will hold the fifth WTO Ministerial Conference, whose main task will be to assess the state and prospects. [[Mexico]] The round of multilateral negotiations and the adoption of appropriate decisions on increasing the liberalisation of access to industrial and agricultural markets, services markets, improved support mechanisms for least developed countries and developing countries, etc. These multilateral negotiations set conditions for world trade decades ahead. Therefore, it is important that the interests of Ukraine be taken into account, which we will be able to achieve only as a full member of the multilateral negotiations, that is, a member of the WTO. Finally, I would like to assure you that the government is sincerely convinced, that it is not only in Ukraine’s national interests, but it is its highest national interest. And it's not just the position of the economy, it's also the political position. Because integration into the world trading system means for Ukraine to always give up isolationism, to open itself up to the world, and thus to guarantee the transparency of its economic and democratic mechanisms. That is why the government and the Supreme Council work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u51	Valery Ivanovich, thank you. Dear colleagues, we've agreed on 30 minutes of questions, and the answers will be. I'm asking you to sign up. We'll queue one directly from the national deputies, and then the next one will be written. Is there no objection? Please sign up. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Then it's in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u52	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Valerius Ivanovich, many women think you are the most beautiful minister of the economy since our government existed. But from my point of view, you're the Minister of Economics, like a plastic bullet. The question is that the crisis that we have today with food prices has long been analysed in the Ministry. And the experts told you clearly. You are a person who does not understand economic issues. And in other words, than the WTO, Switzerland, international conferences, you don't know. You need to focus on the strong Ukrainian economy, the strong state, the strong positions in international markets. And we will seek retirement not only from the agrarian bloc, but from you as the minister of the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u53	Microphone. I want to make a note, make a comment to the honorary colleague Rudzkowski. And I would like to make a correct statement about the minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u54	For my part, I just want to take a quote about mutual professionalism. On March 19th, at this hall, Rudzikowski Mikolayayovich: “350,000 tons of sugar will cause half of the land in Ukraine to stop being sown with sugar beet because it will always be at risk of not getting the price of sugar. This is only one part where everyone can see it." The same people, i.e. Rudekovsky Mikolaiovich, voted in favour of the approval of the 300th quota.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u55	Yes, in writing, please. You exchanged kindness. Enough, please let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u56	Ukraine's Parubok National Deputy: "How can we explain the lucid nature of the government's inter-State protocol on the conditions for Ukraine's entry into the WTO?" Ukraine's negotiating position on access to the market for goods is based on the concept of transforming Ukraine's customs tariff for 96-2005 according to the GAT SOT system approved by the President's decree, the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, the conclusions and proposals of the branch ministries and authorities on changing import duty rates to individual types of products. Ukraine's negotiating position on market access is based on the positions of international treaties to which Ukraine is a party. The contents of the protocols are reviewed and approved by the inter-ministerial commission on Ukraine's accession to the WTO, the Customs Tariff Council, which includes representatives of the Supreme Council and the Government. In view of the foregoing, it is not possible to talk about the temporal nature of intergovernmental protocols. The only thing I want to point out is that, as long as Ukraine is not admitted to the World Trade Organization, really, protocols signed with certain countries are confidential. And the problem here is not that we can't publish them from the point of view that we want to show the weakness of our position, we can't publish them in order to avoid weakening the position of the negotiating process, because in multilateral negotiations we're trying to find the maximum profit from the tariff offer of Ukraine and our government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u57	Mikola Noshchenko, "Trug Ukraine" faction, "Industrials and Entrepreneurs".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u58	160 constituency. Dear Valery Ivanovich! Well, just so God gives us the principle of "learn the stranger, but don't turn your back on your own." What I'd like to say is in preparation work, do you take into account the state of the art, the economic state of development, the development of Ukrainian society? The point is that countries are joining a union where social standards are much higher. I mean the size of the pension, the minimum wage, the income of the family, it should all be balanced. What is the way you predict the impact on these indicators, in the preparatory process and during the introduction, please give these indicators so that the electorate will feel the advantage of these actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u59	The first thing I want to point out is that today 145 countries are members of the World Trade Organization. And it's clear that those figures you called in these countries are completely different. And it's not about joining the European Union right now, where these standards of living are so important. It's about SOT -- it's about sharing in general trade. When it comes to retirement rates, social benefits, that sort of thing. We come from the fact that Ukraine's introduction to the world trade organisation will give an accelerated development of Ukraine's economy and thus give an opportunity because you're actually talking about budgeting having more budget resources to meet these needs. So if I go to the electorate, I can definitely say that the entrance to the SOT will only allow the government to have more resources to meet the social standard of life.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u60	Yes, please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u61	The deputy faction of our Ukraine. What steps are being taken and are being taken by the government to reduce the negative social and economic consequences, to join the WTO for the agricultural sector and other economic sectors. Agriculture is one of the most important sectors of the Ukrainian economy, despite its share in the structure of GDP and employment. It is only natural, therefore, that agriculture and agricultural policy play an important role in the process of Ukraine’s accession to WTO. Since Ukraine intends to become a member of the WTO, it should bring its agricultural policy into line with the requirements of the Agriculture Agreement. This is primarily the case with legislation on imports of agricultural products, which has a fairly high level of import tariffs, which significantly restricts access to the internal market. During 1996 - 2001, the average import duty rate for agricultural products was 19 - 19.5 percent. During this time, import rates per year ranged from $760 billion to $1 billion,400 million. According to a consolidated tariff proposal, the rate of duty and agricultural production is projected to decrease from 19.5 to 12.5. During this period, it is expected that imports of this product into Ukraine will not exceed 7 - 8 percent. According to the Agriculture Agreement, the internal support of agriculture, or the "Yellow Box" measures, is the indicator of total support, should be reduced within five years by 20 percent compared to the base period, except for the green box and the blue box: measures that do not have or have a limited impact on external trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u62	Yes, Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u63	Thank you. Valeriy Ivanovich, you know that the debate that is still taking place in society is about the introduction to the WTO, it's about finding out, especially for the general public, the question: will the Ukrainian economy get any advantages, or some problems and difficulties? I have a question about KPC, a military-industrial complex. You know very well that much of the budget revenue is provided, including the Ukrainian military-industrial complex, which successfully trades military goods, including the world's first ten exporters. Please tell us that the military-industrial sector, such as aircraft construction, will benefit from certain advantages after joining the WTO or some problems, or are they waiting for us in the European market with high-tech products, or are the restrictions of Sots somehow going to damage this sector. That is, is it enough that your ministry, which you run, has calculated all the financial and economic and social consequences of Ukraine's accession to the WTO.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u64	Okay. It's a question that can be answered differently. I'd say if anyone ever thought about counting the consequences of not having Ukraine join the WTO. And secondly, I can answer that unfortunately, the military-industrial complex today needs help, and I can't agree that it today has a lot of deductions, that's a large portion of it in terms of budget. Unfortunately, this part is constantly shrinking. And if we count from 1991 to this year, we see that unfortunately, this sector is in crisis. If you talk about the government's ability today to support this sector, you know it's actually equal to zero. What does that mean? That this is a sector that needs investment in the first place. This sector is primarily looking forward to monetary arrivals. And in terms of aircraft construction, I want to say that, of course, the government is looking after this particular sector, including because Ukraine is a sufficiently technological country in this sector. But there's investment, there's markets needed, there's new approaches to the ability to trade in markets all over the world. In this regard, I would like to point out that the introduction to WTO will definitely help, first of all, high-tech industries such as aviation to obtain the necessary investments in order to be able to work peacefully with competitive products in the external markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u65	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u66	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. What measures are being taken by the Cabinet of Ministers to employ employees, such as the Kharkiv Tractor Plant, who will lose their jobs when Ukraine enters SOT because of the uncompetitiveness of domestic production? With a view to shaping and implementing population employment policies, particularly in the area of expanding employment through the creation of new jobs, the State Employment Programme 2001-2004, approved by the Ukrainian Law of 07.03. More than 1.5 million jobs are planned in 2001. In fact, between 2001 and 2002, 1 million new jobs were created in all areas of economic activity, and 622 000 jobs were created in 2002. More than 830,000 people have been employed in open and newly created jobs through the State Employment Service. These forms of unemployment support are being developed, such as a one - time payout for unemployment to engage in entrepreneurial activities. Annual plans are being developed for the implementation of the State Employment Programme 2001-2004, as well as regional employment programmes aimed at addressing a specific round of employment issues in one region or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u67	Victor Musiak, European Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u68	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Valery Ivanovich! You're right, and I agree with you, stressing the need to solve intellectual property rights issues, as one of the problems of which is necessary for the WTO entry. But apart from laser discs, everything that's connected to it has come up with another problem that I'd like to draw your attention to, and I want to ask you if you know about it. This, by the way, could come back to an international scandal and an international one, which we don't really need and even from the point of view of the WTO. What do I mean? I've already received dozens of letters over the past few months from organizations that protect and protect intellectual property rights. This is about organizations that are trying to become an organization for the administration of rights, the administration of property rights and adjacent rights. And the Department of Intellectual Property in the Ministry of Education doesn't solve these problems. And I'm coming out of the material that I've been given, and I'm seeing that there's a gross violation of the Copyright Act, the adjacent rights, not to mention the Constitution, and so on. And I can see there's a huge scandal. I ask you to pay attention to that, and I say, "Do you know about that?" Because they've been talking to different government agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u69	Yes, I know about this problem. Not enough, we are said to be dealing with it ourselves, unfortunately, and the solution lies in our plans. And I think it's with the Department of Intellectual Property that we're going to address this issue. If the experts have addressed and have not received an answer, I ask that they contact me personally and we will consider this question. Thank you. The faction of the People's Democratic Party. What measures are being taken by the government to increase the competitiveness of Ukraine's economy? And how will there be ways to increase the competitiveness of the economy under the conditions of Ukraine's WTO membership? I have noted that the Program of Activities of the Cabinet of Ministers, "Discovery, Efficiency and Effectiveness", which was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers and approved by the Supreme Council, is defined as a priority for the government's work on business development and competition. In particular, it has been noted that the problem of creating a fully competitive environment in commodity markets, creating a level playing field for entrepreneurial activities, removing negative factors in the field of regulation of natural monopolies, reducing the dependence of economic activity on monopolistic sectors will be constantly in government view. Paragraph 3.6 provides for government measures to increase export potential. A specific point in the program is the direction of government policy aimed at structural distortions and increasing the competitiveness of the economy. In particular, measures have been identified to improve the structure of the economy based on an innovative development model, the approval of a competitive agricultural sector, the development of a fuel and energy complex, the efficient use of industrial potential, the development of high-tech sectors and the development of the transport system, etc. In addition, we provide information on measures taken by the government in various sectors of the economy to increase the competitiveness of the economy in relation to the accession to the World Trade Organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u70	Vladimir Sergiyovich Petrenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u71	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please pass the word to Hinzburg Olga Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u72	Olga Hinsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u73	Thank you, Vladimir Sergiyovich, thank you, Chairman. And I'm addressing a distinguished reporter. That's my question. For example, there is a government, or you are the country’s chief financier, and you have a lot of problems in the state. And you write to yourself, this is one, this is the other, this is the third, and somewhere in the third or fourth place, it says, "Yeah, we're going to the WTO." This, the introduction to the WTO today, is going to remove such, such major questions from our country. And I, as a member of parliament of mistrust, I want to make sure of it, and I think, well, for that life has passed, we've disbanded the colleges thought something would be better; we've adopted the Earth Code, thought it would be better. It's not like that. Now that we're entering the WTO, in a way to our rural producer, because today this problem is so urgent, it's going to put this entry into the WTO that it's going to give him a positive one, because today it's clear that it's negative. And what action you are taking today to improve the contract, under the conditions that we are offered for our country, to do something better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u74	Thank you. So let's say, what is the characteristic of agriculture? Not only by manufacturing but also by exporting, that is, by selling our own produce. And it is clear in this question that the new rules of trade with 145 countries give the agricultural sector a wide range of activities on this issue -- the opportunity to sell their own products. This is the main thing, not to produce, but to be able to implement it. Second of all, what's S.O.T. gonna give? I'm sure that, at least, this will give us an opportunity to get an understanding of the value of the earth. And thirdly, I think it's also very important to open up the market for investment in the agricultural sector. These three important ones, in my view, will give me the benefit of a agriculture that will never receive from an untransparent system of benefits. In doing so, the government promises and works in this direction that agriculture will receive direct subsidies. You know, in Europe right now, even the system of farming is changing, which is a far-reaching task, but European countries are taking this step. And by the way, the main lesson of this change is to finance, not production, but other dimensions that will match the quality of the product and its balance. So that we do not take the wrong path. Yes, we need to take the initiatives and the implementation points that developed countries are working on today. Then I think we'll be able to prevent the negative and get the positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u75	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u76	Democratic Initiatives. Please provide a timetable for signing protocols with countries with members of the working group who will be able to join the WTO after signing them. Please state the most realistic date for the signing of the agreement on Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization. I'll say that the graph that's signed, I think it's given out to you in additional materials. What are we planning to sign? We plan to sign protocols with countries such as Australia, Argentina, Bulgaria, Brazil, Ecuador, Estonia, Israel, Kyrgyzstan, Cuba, Lithuania, Moldova, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Poland, Thailand, Turkey, Switzerland, Japan and the United States. And of course, the most realistic deadline for signing an agreement on Ukraine's accession to WTO, and I point out that without the help of the Supreme Council, this is almost impossible, this is the end of 2003, the beginning of 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u77	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u78	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Valery Ivanovich, I have two questions that are specific enough. In Kabmin's information and analysis materials, which are given to MPs, by the way, enough solid, there's such a phrase, more specifically, that the overall positive impact of Ukraine's entry into the WTO on budget revenues can reach 2-3 billion dollars by accelerating economic growth and so on, I'm not going to quote. What year would I like to find out? You got it. Will it be the first year, or will it be five years later? This is the first moment. First question. And the second. As you consider the proposal, by the way, it is in the draft decree that the members of the Committee on European Integration are offered by hearings on accounting for the preparation of the 2004 State Budget to provide funding for the translation of the official documents of the WTO by the State, since today very few people are familiar and physically familiar with them because of certain language problems in Ukraine with knowledge of foreign language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u79	Thank you. It's about what time I was. You know, going to the SOT and becoming a member of the SOT is half right. The point is how we will continue to implement the agreements that we will sign. And unfortunately, we often change the conditions of existence and thus create a situation of distrust of ourselves. So, of course, I'm not predicting that in the first year of Ukraine's entry into WTO, we're going to get the most positive. But the trend is positive, of course. As far as the papers are concerned. I fully agree with this proposal to translate all documents into Ukrainian, but also, if you've seen them in additions, we've now distributed the maximum number, including certain WTO documents, which have already been translated into Ukrainian. I think it's going to be a start. In general, I fully support your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u80	A letter, please, with a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u81	The People's Government MP: "What are Ukraine's chances of joining the WTO by the end of 2003?" Well, I answered that question. Another question is, "How will economic and financial benefits affect Ukraine after joining the World Trade Organization?" Well, I did, too, but we'll try it now, let's say. You don't have to? Well, I answered that question. So let's look at another question. The Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood: "Why do Ukraine's actions to join the WTO seem chaotic so far? There is no scientific and economically sound concept. For example, why does the Ministry of Economics and European Integration not take decisive steps to eliminate the mandatory certification of food products as anachronism contrary to the principles of WTO and international practice and cause unjustified costs for domestic producers and their implementation?" Well, what I'm saying is that right now our movement to the U.S.A. doesn't look like a chaotic and clearly planned situation. They understood the importance of the influence we need to accelerate this action. You know that Ukraine's recently increased significantly in terms of obtaining membership in the World Trade Organization. Regarding certificates and their barriers, I agree with you absolutely, and in this regard we are working on a separate program for accelerating certification, because this direction, unfortunately, is a little bit behind. This involves both the organization’s period and some funding. I have the hope that we will improve the measures in this area and simplify the certification regime as envisaged by the WTO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u82	People's Deputy Masters, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u83	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, Vladimir Masters of the Žmerin Election District number 14. Valerius Ivanovich! I support all of Ukraine's positions on the WTO entry. I think it's going to speed up the modernization of our production. Now, look what's happening in the village today, including today's not so much talk that we're taking out not the final product, but eventually we're taking out the raw material. The wheat is the same raw material, and if we're talking about increasing investment in the agrarian sector, it's the WTO that stimulates this work, and it's the same industry as the metallurgy that today comes out at the level of peppers and all that. I'm going to use these positions as quickly as possible, but answer the question maybe to calm the agrarians, what is the time when we're going to introduce the standard especially into the agrarian sector? Would it be, for example, a time to adjust and not be particularly sensitive at the beginning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u84	I thank you for asking, so the answer is multifaceted, well, first of all, we've been coming in for 10 years. 10 years is if we conditionally took it seriously from the very beginning, it would be a sufficient time for the change in agriculture that we needed to accept. But let's just say we didn't do it. Of course, we have a period of adaptation: 2 to 7 years. But, dear colleagues, if we think that, well, at the entrance to the SOT, it's just some door that goes either, there, the flow of money, or the flow of trouble, it's not. Everything will depend on our consistent actions, on our changes, on our competitive demands to ourselves. And in this respect, if we can do the market transformations that will help the agricultural sector to work profitablely and competitively, then we can solve the issue. And by the way, if you're going back to the crisis issue, it's not a matter of punishing someone today. This is a question of understanding that governance and internal relations in the agricultural sector today do not meet the challenges of today. I am ready to hold a discussion on this subject. I'm willing to go through any argument about this and say that if this happens, and by the way, the crisis is, first of all, the update, the parliament will gather, and the government will sow, then these crises will arise, I don't know at what speed. So, first of all, we need to look at the nature of the relations that have taken place in the agricultural sector today: from financing to land ownership. Only after that can you say something.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u85	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u86	Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications. "Introduction to the WTO can lead to lower production volumes in some areas of the Ukrainian farm complex and to negative social consequences, i.e. rising unemployment and lower living standards. At the same time, WTO rules allow developing countries and market reforms to make concessions in areas consistent with the negotiating process. In what priority areas of the national economy did the government agree on appropriate concessions, i.e. the delay in opening markets in these areas?".. Let me tell you some of them. It's a chemical harmonization in 2004, well, steel, toys, wood, textiles, color metals, pharmaceuticals -- 2004 with different rates. Paper - 2005, agricultural technology - 2005, furniture - 2005, scientific equipment - 2006, information technology - 2004, building technology - 2006, civil aviation, by the way, it was asked by the faction - 2010, distilled alcohol three years after the entry into SOTA. The vast majority of sectoral agreements and initiatives contain, not consumer goods, but composites and raw materials for the production of technological products. So joining these agreements is primarily about increasing the volume of investment imports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u87	Victor Terrence, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u88	Dear Minister, Ukraine has already signed a number of protocols from the WTO, and Russia is demanding that Ukraine join the WTO with it and motivate it by saying that Ukraine and Russia are creating the so-called only economic space. But if you agree to Russia’s demand, it will mean that Ukraine, as a state, will not only harm its own economy, but will expose itself as a Moscow vassal to ridicule in front of the entire world community. So, Mr. Secretary, the question is whether there is any more in Russia or in our government is this, you know, manic idea that Ukraine should synchronize with Russia its introduction to the WTO and show her the confidential protocols. And the second. How contrary is the creation of a single economic space for Ukraine's entry into the WTO, and in general, when there were sounds here, you know the fear that the consequences for Ukraine would be negative for signing a trade agreement with more economically developed countries, so what would give us the creation of a single economic space, you know, with countries that are economically weak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u89	Thank you. Well, first of all, let's admit the simple thing, is that Russia today remains the largest trading partner in Ukraine, and that, of course, at that stage of domestic open market agreements, which exist between the two states, those proposals that Ukraine is going to make after joining the WTO will somehow affect the state of trade relations between Ukraine and Russia. And it's not possible to take that into account. On the other hand, no one is talking about a certain synchronization. It's just that if we're trading partners, we have to understand each other's actions. In this regard, there is no requirement. It's about the accent I just made. A few more words after sync. Our main task is that no one becomes the first member of the WTO, Russia, or Ukraine, so that we do not create additional requirements for our neighbor to join the WTO. It's very easy to do this, and unfortunately we feel it in our own right now, and it's, unfortunately, in practice it is. Our task is to bring the negotiating situation to the point where it will not be possible. We're doing it. In terms of EP, the only economic space. In my view, integration stages cannot be overstretched. And the original version that was offered by the Russian side regarding the EP was unacceptable. The president said that today we're talking about creating, first of all, a free trade market. And in this regard, we absolutely support this program and these actions because, in our view, once we've moved away from the cold war state, bilateral relations, their establishment is the priority and only task of the state, that is, its government officials in terms of ensuring the interests of their own country. And we're doing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u90	Valery Ivanovich, thank you. Have a seat, please. Time's up. Mikola Rudzkowski, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, has the word for replication and apology. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u91	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Valery Ivanovich, I apologize, if anything was personal to you, it seemed lunchy. But I'm glad you're quoting me and a transcript of the speech in the Supreme Council. It would be appropriate if you would quote the speeches where I spoke about protecting my own manufacturer. Well, about 350,000 tons of sugar-cheese imports, I was absolutely against it, and now I'm saying it's a big mistake to vote on this decision in June. I suggested and Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko in March to import 150-120 thousand tons to be processed by the end of June and for peak consumption in July we had sugar here. And that's going to make it possible to just make a profit for business. The same thing is happening to grain right now. Let's have the grain imported by September 1st. And this is a hint to the Minister of Economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u92	Thank you. For the report, the Deputy Head of the Committee on European Integration, Roman Zvarić, please. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u93	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The process of Ukraine's entry into the WTO is finally becoming one of the most up-to-date issues not only for the legislative and executive branches of power, but also for business and the public. By examining the Minister of Economics and European Integration’s presentation, we can identify five main areas of work on the road to Ukraine’s entry into WTO. This is, first of all, the issue of improving the competitiveness of the economy under the conditions of Ukraine's participation in WTO, particularly in such areas as machinery, coal, agro-industry, to some extent chemical and pharmaceutical, and some other sectors of the economy. The government needs to pay immediate attention to the need to develop and implement measures to support these sectors of Ukrainian industry and to protect the internal market of Ukraine, using the means provided for in the GAT-SOT Treaty System. Another aspect. This is a question of the social consequences of Ukraine’s entry into WTO. Unfortunately, the government has not sufficiently analysed the possible effects of competition on the labour market and the level of employment of the population in Ukraine. It is therefore necessary to do so without delay and to develop appropriate adaptation programs. Third. This is the conclusion of bilateral and multilateral negotiations on access to Ukraine's market. Since the minister has stayed on this issue longer, I will not comment on this anymore. Instead, I would like to point out that, according to the committee, there are intensive negotiations on a number of so-called problem issues, and the government seems to be fairly consistent in defending the interests of the Ukrainian producer. At the same time, and I'd like to make a particular point here, in the position that we're building on the negotiation process, there's no sense of the same producer. As a result, the lack of information on the subject of Ukraine’s market access negotiations is a result of this. Today, there is virtually no meaningful work in the country, with inefficient feedback from entrepreneurs, particularly in the field of explanatory work. As a result, this can make it more difficult to adapt domestic enterprises to new economic standards. The government needs to take steps to expand information work on the norms and principles of the GATT-SOTA treaty system, the functions and activities of the World Trade Organization. I would also like to take a separate look at what the minister was talking about, namely that the next round of negotiations in Cancún begins in the autumn of this year. It is planned to consider the whole range of normative, new normative acts of the GATT-SOT system and their final approval in the spring of 2005. So I'm not going to stop long on this, I'd just like to draw the attention of the people's deputies in Ukraine to the fact that, before this new system of normative acts becomes operational in the GATT-SOT system, the process of Ukraine's entry into the SOT will be practical. We're going to have to practically start it from scratch, that is, again. And the last, fifth direction of the government's work on Ukraine's accession to WTO is the legislative guarantee of joining the organization. This task box is the most complex and complex. We need to conduct Ukraine's legislation in line with the GATT-SOT standards, create reliable tools to ensure the competitiveness of Ukrainian enterprises and protect our market. Unfortunately, there are more flaws to this journey than there is to success. Practically a broken schedule for the preparation and adoption of legislative acts that meet the standards of the GAT SOT treaty system. In our legislation, there are standards that discriminate against excise congregations for foreign producers. There are valid legal acts governing the activities of special economic zones that have not met the requirements of GAT since 1994. There is a total ban on the export of junk, colored metals, which is contrary to the GAT SOT standards. At the same time, there is virtually no legislation that provides State support to Ukrainian businesses and protection of the Ukrainian market in accordance with WTO rules. So this area right over here requires a lot of work. And I would like to conclude by stressing that the tasks that the government is facing right now require it to elaborate its efforts on the way to preparing the country to participate in the WTO. The problems facing Ukraine need a comprehensive approach to solving them. And so the development of a tactical work plan aimed at achieving the goal is an important element of government activity in the coming six months. The full involvement of the legislature, business circles, and the public in the preparation and entry of U.S.S.A. can be a major factor in success on this path. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u94	Thank you, too. Please sit down, mate. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. 20 minutes as agreed. Please put the names of the national MPs who are registered on the board. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, prepare for John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u95	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Honorable National MPs, distinguished government, honored by our Ukrainian suffering people! You and I have not seen under what conditions today are the openings that have been negotiated by one, the other, the third, the fourth governments. Because gradually, the position of Ukraine seemed to continue. We demanded that we, as deputies, be informed of the terms of the negotiations and the conditions for each country. Nothing of this has been added or given to us now in these materials. We looked at the distributed material on the "Trade and Economic Regimes" plate, before entering the SATs, after entering the SATs. So if we're at the bottom of the 100, after entering the economy today, to our esteemed ministers and economies, and the Euro-Integrations that break into two halves, either into the economy or into Euro-Integration, we're going to fall to the floor ten below. It's in the current state of the economy. So I think that on the way to WTO, it's not low competitiveness, it's total treasury and shadow economy. And until that changes, it is not serious to talk about a full introduction to the World Trade Organization. We need to talk about protecting the Ukrainian economy today. I saw that in the document that Janukovic signed, the main motive was the introduction earlier than the Russian Federation to the WTO. Yeah, that's a serious argument. But at the same time, it's probably not a basic argument, because today there's a question about rural production: what happens if the state support for coal companies, coal mines, is canceled? Coal prices will rise, the cost of all production will increase. Then there will be unemployment. The environmental effects will not be predicted at all. It will be after we enter the WTO, if we go after that recipe that the government is now offering. That's why I think we have to warn Ukraine's national interests, predict them, and that's the only way to ensure maybe even by adopting a special law, where everything is clearly stated that we allow the government to do and that we're not allowed to do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u96	The word is given to Volodymyr Puzakov, the next to Borzih.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u97	Vladimir Puzakov. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradstina. Today, many recognize even abroad that Ukraine is a state of poverty and that it will become even more impoverished as it joins the World Trade Organization. The measurable results of the ten-year reforms in Ukraine, the inability of the Ukrainian authorities to overcome the systemic crisis, economic stagnation and political instability, the gap between the interests of power and society, the enormous property dispersion in the face of the impoverishment of most of the population, are the main obstacles to our State's path to the World Trade Organization. As of today, Ukraine has not met any of the criteria for joining the World Trade Organization. We see and know that China became a member of the World Trade Organization only when it became an economic giant. Ukraine's hasty accession to the World Trade Organization could lead to the following: our agri-industrial complex, which has been destroyed, will not be fully supported by the State. The most important industries of the country, such as agriculture, automotive, black metal industry and the State, will be abandoned. The manufacturer himself will be thrown overboard and our producers ready for the fiercest competition. Today, the West does not need Ukraine as an equal trading partner; it only sees it as a market for the marketing of its scarcely dependent goods. As long as we accept this directly or indirectly, we will be considered a third party Power. The prospects for European markets seem rather speculative, so Ukrainian goods, if they have a chance to enter the European market, are not due to a healthy competition, but only because of mercy. Despite the limitations of joining the World Trade Organization and imitating the United States of America, Kiev will do its utmost to join the World Trade Organization in the next two to three years. After the U.S. victory in Iraq, however, the pro-American trends in Ukraine became more evident. On the other hand, the President announced in an interview with the Ukrainian Air Force that he was being drawn to the United States. We were strategic partners with the United States yesterday, and tomorrow we want to be with them. Their presence in Central Asia or Europe, Turkey, with our neighbour, is quite normal. You listen to those words, and you are asking for a continuation of his statement: an even more normal phenomenon would be the presence of American troops in Ukraine. No, no, and the secret thoughts of the President of Ukraine are popping up. It is unclear where the President of Ukraine is going: whether it is to Europe, represented by Germany and France, whether it is to Europe of American vassals. It is not excluded that Ukraine will soon require not only battalions, but entire divisions. And the economy and the people, respectively, will continue to yawn. It is concluded that no one needs our country and its people with such a destroyed economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u98	Alexander Borzih. Next Alexander Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u99	Borzih, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine, Luganshina. Honorable national MPs, members of the government and invited. The Ukrainian Agrarian Party would like to focus on the issue of warnings of possible negative consequences that may arise in the agricultural sector in connection with Ukraine’s entry into the WTO. Today, the question is, How ready are we for a fierce competitive fight in both the internal and the external agrarian markets? And the position of the government in this direction seems to us to be overly optimistic. For various reasons, domestic producers cannot yet ensure the production of competitive products compared to imports. For many groups of goods, the real price has long exceeded the world’s level. Where, at the lowest level, the peasants' wages are lowest. In this situation, free imports into Ukraine of cheap agricultural products can pose a real threat to Ukrainian producers after the sale of domestic products in the internal market. This is provided that some processing businesses are now holding back the intake of milk and meat products, Motivating this to a limited market for finished products. It is not necessary to be a great economist to predict without sufficient warnings from the State that all of this will necessarily lead to a halt to a series of productions, a sharp complication of the financial situation of the enterprises. Accidentally, the food markets of all WTO countries are the most regulated and secure, both in customs and in technical barriers, that is, in the standard system. What do we have? The so - called tariff restrictions, according to the report, will have to be reduced as soon as possible. And the development of new country standards has not yet been followed. There is also no major problem, such as the definition of the level and nature of State support for the agricultural sector. Let's think about the discussion about last Wednesday in this room. The APC has now seen serious changes in its direction. Budget expenditure should be primarily invested in infrastructure development. They need to develop a credit and insurance system for farmers, and they need to improve the date mechanism for the production of agricultural products. Small financial injections of the current support of agribusiness enterprises are completely ineffective. What's more, they just don't get to the peasants. So by making a decision on this issue, the faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine will consistently insist and demand from the government: first, the introduction of the most effective forms of State support for the agricultural sector, which would address not only the economy but also the employment of the rural population. And the second. Positions of protectionism of domestic producers in the negotiations on Ukraine's entry into WTO. This will depend on the further development of the entire national-economic complex and the level of food security of the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u100	Alexander Chevchenko. Next Raisa Bogotyrov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u101	Alexander Shevchenko, 39th constituency, Dniproperty, Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Chairman! Dear members of the government! Dear National Deputies! Experience in various countries has shown that the introduction to WTO has played a positive role in economic development. The need and importance of this step for Ukraine is due to the mobilization of the world economy with an appropriate world distribution of work. On the one hand, the delay in this process is increasingly pushing our state to the periphery of the world economy. On the other hand, the question is, is our APC ready to fight for external markets? Each country’s food markets are most regulated, protected not only by customs, technical barriers, and standards but also by legislation. Now the whole population of Ukraine is concerned about what is happening in the food market of the state. Forgetting that with the late adoption of the Grain and Grain Market Act, the content of the bill was not full of financial substance. Significant economic losses have been expressed not only in the past but are continuing directly for the consumer. The question is, how can the agricultural sector of the economy compete in the global market in these circumstances, and what must be done to minimize the negative effects of our country's accession to the WTO? Another example. The unadopted Law on the Distinguishment of Sunflower Customs continues to rob manufacturers for nearly 2 billion dollars each year. Thus, changes in legislation are essential when preparing the introduction, not to mention the prospects for cooperation. Without that, we will be expected, at best, the fate of South Korea, which lost billions of dollars when it enters the WTO. So you have to be prepared and not counted. That's why the agrarian states are calling on you, honourable national deputies, to speed up the consideration in the Supreme Council of those APC Bills that are waiting for their turn. One way to prepare for entry is through technological refurbishment, including the creation of an agrotechn park. The draft of this very important law will be considered in the hall. This question is being initiated by leading experts and scientists. I'd like to feel the support of all the people's deputies, because technological restocking is one of the pillars of the WTO entry. In agriculture, one year feeds. Part of the electorate has a negative view of Parliament’s work, as money is now needed to carry out agrotechnical measures. Once the optimum field work lines have passed, no investment will help. In the winter, wheat will not flourish. The European Union, which we are trying to enter into, is a clear example of solving and understanding problems. At each summit of Heads of State, three issues must be considered first of all: finance, weapons, agrarian and industrial complex. In view of the situation, voters demand to expand the agrarian faction or create a more numerous faction in the Supreme Council in order to effectively defend the interests of peasants. Then there will be support for the state. Many national deputies who are accustomed to doing business are in agreement with this position. But it is necessary to plan this responsible step in a balanced way and to rely on fruitful cooperation with all factions, parties, government structures for the purpose of European and Euro-Atlantic integration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u102	Raisa Bogatyrov, faction of "Ukraine". She's out. Vladimir Demökhin, members of the People's Government. Osaka will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u103	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! The issue discussed today is, in fact, how to maintain its own Ukrainian positions in the world economy. It appears that a number of managers are confident that this can only be achieved through negotiations on the entry into the STO. We do not need a negotiating process itself, but a well-designed and focused training of the economy and regions. Not yet. Managing trade relations among countries is a key issue of STO activities. It would be useful to analyse the structure of the world's commodity market through the prism of Ukraine's productive capacities in order to understand what would be more useful to focus on in production. Trade is only one of many structural elements of economic life, but it is important enough. And by adopting new trade rules when entering the STO, temporary complications in the area of State regulation of economic development in general are possible. Such complications could be caused by the following factors. The need to move on to new, internationally agreed conditions of state economic regulation. The need to abandon traditional levers of economic and industrial policy. We have separated the phase of trade from the overall structure of economic activity and focused only on it. I find this wrong and I need to fix it urgently. However, even if we consider the very stage of trade, in isolation from the overall structure of the economy, we are not all right here. In my view, the following issues need to be addressed. First, with the understanding that the specific conditions of accession to the WTO can be substantially adapted to Ukraine, every effort must be made to achieve the most appropriate transition period in order to fulfil the obligations to liberalize access to the goods and services markets in Ukraine, where there is an increased demand for the negative effects of rapid implementation. Secondly, I believe that it is now necessary to establish the potential to exploit the possible benefits of joining the WTO. This process also has an emerging definition of capacity-building. Thirdly, industries such as shipbuilding, aviation, machinery can legally become key in the structure of Ukraine's foreign trade. In order to reinforce the priorities of these positions, we need to develop additional forms of economic protection for these industries and enterprises against the possible negative effects. Fourthly, as we join the WTO, we will have to abandon the existing forms of protection of our agrarian sector from external competition. More effective protection methods within the STO are needed. And in prison. The Government has not provided us with a clear vision of the benefits and disadvantages of joining the WTO. As a result, the necessary combination of measures, programmes and plans for the preparation of the country's domestic economy was not provided. That's what I'm talking about both the centre and the regions. There are clear unutilized reserves in the negotiation process itself. I believe that these are the provisions that need to be addressed today by the Cabinet of Ministers and us, the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u104	National MP Shepetin, faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] Get ready, Lucenka. You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u105	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! On the one hand, I do not share the optimistic expectations that joining the World Trade Organization will create an enabling environment for the development of all Ukrainian exports. But as we see from real life, without such entry, full economic development of exports is in principle impossible. Here, both in the Minister's report and in my colleagues' report, there was a question of how high-tech productions in Ukraine would develop. We have seen that the arrivals of our aviation industry, aircraft to European markets today are artificially constrained by various forms of non-price constraints. With regard to other export components, textiles and metal exporters against which anti-dumping investigations are currently being conducted in all countries of the world. It will or will not help today for the export component of our Ukraine to join the World Trade Organization. Unreservedly, yes. But before we can do this, we need to see the prospects of the economy as a whole, as well as the individual sectors of the economy, clearly understand the prospects for domestic companies in a tough, competitive fight. Experts identified two elements of successful accession to WTO, the ability to professionally address the main provisions of the WTO agreement in the national interest of their country and the ability to compromise, the principled issues, by giving way to less important positions. This is where the decision of the Government, with us people's deputies, and the definition of long-term priorities for the development of the national economy is particularly important. As has been the case, the European countries that joined the WTO have adopted 241 laws and 7,000 regulations over 10 years to define key approaches to the EU and the WTO. We still cannot pass fifteen laws on the second timetable for the harmonization of our legislation with WTO norms. There is another important issue: the technical regulation and standards. Today, we have adapted to world practice only 10 per cent, and at least 80 are needed. These solutions and problems cannot be postponed. We believe that Parliament must exercise political will for the speedy adoption of priority legislation. These regulations should be included in the agenda of the fourth session of the Supreme Council. The slowing of accession to the WTO will lead to the deepening of the country's economic structural distortions. To date, we have neither the political nor the economic alternatives to the completion of Ukraine's accession to WTO at the end of 2003. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u106	Yes, Stepan Gavrish? Nor is it. Konovaluk? None. Cassianov? Is there a Cassianov? Please, the last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u107	Cassianov Sergei, 37 constituency, non-fractional. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! First of all, we need to define the strategic importance of Ukraine joining the WTO for two reasons: first, as a factor of integration into global economic structures, including the European community, and second, as an incentive to reform the national economy on the principle of liberalisation and market openness. The efforts of the government that have made progress in the negotiations must also be noted. At the same time, we have to admit that there is not enough work to prepare a country's function strategy within the WTO, because the WTO is not just as much new tariffs as the new rules for relations between all market participants and the state. So we need to develop a long-term strategy and plan for quality changes in the production structure, and we need to do so immediately. To ensure the preparation of such a government strategy, scientific institutions and independent analysts must be involved in various expertise that are able to carry out complex research and jointly develop adaptation programmes and development programmes for the economic sector. In turn, the Supreme Council should develop an effective mechanism for parliamentary control over the preparation of their strategies and development programmes under conditions of integration into the WTO, and ensure monitoring of the implementation of these programmes. Such a mechanism could be a joint working group with the participation of entrepreneurs and the public, for example, as it is in Russia. It's important that the development of the programs be initiated by the "Ukrainen Regions" here that I agree with my colleagues, because joining the WTO means integrating everyone into the global economy without the exception of enterprises. Preparing for such integration is the responsibility of local executives, local associations of enterprises, national deputies representing regions. The scales involved in joining the WTO are not yet fully understood. This is primarily due to a lack of information and a very limited involvement of business, scientists, and the public in preparing for the new system of economic ties. In my view, the government would have to make greater use of the potential of public organisations in the realization, formation and protection of the rights of consumers and suppliers, of course within the legal framework of WTO. The ability to communicate effectively and to combine efforts, resources, authorities, businesses, and public organizations to open up to future programs, transparency and accountability in decision-making are critical factors in the country’s successful adaptation. In general, the task of integrating Ukraine into the WTO is a good basis for the consolidation of the country's healthy political forces and perhaps the absolute majority of all present in this room. Clearly, we have a consolidated responsibility to ensure a balanced strategy for preparing the country to function within the WTO. The People’s Deputies Group has prepared a draft Supreme Council Regulation on Information for the Cabinet of Ministers on the move to take action on Ukraine’s entry into WTO. I ask you, Your Honor, to support this determination. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u108	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we conclude our consideration of the question: "On the move to take action on Ukraine's entry into WTO." I would ask the Committee on European Integration, together with the government, to finalize a draft decision taking into account the discussion that has taken place today so that we can make a negotiated decision. Ladies and gentlemen, we were now scheduled to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Transport Act. [[new editor]] But the chairman of the committee asked me to postpone the consideration of this issue in view of the need to finalize the draft decision, because the first draft of the ruling sounded like, "Go back to the first reading." Apparently, new circumstances have arisen, and the committee is asking him to postpone the consideration. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees their social protection, is being announced for consideration. [[on persons who have moved to Ukraine since 1944]] We have as many as four draft laws on this issue. So I'd like to ask the drafters of the bill for two minutes to base the essence of this law, and then we'll listen to a proposal from the profile committee. Please. Who's speaking?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u109	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Victor Terrence, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u110	Please, Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm very brief. You know that our faction has long insisted on holding parliamentary hearings of Ukrainians who have been displaced from 44th to 46th years from ethnic Ukrainian lands, and specifically Slaterland, Holland, Lemkish, Ukraine because there are so many socio-economic problems that need to be addressed. Unfortunately, those parliamentary hearings did not take place, we will think they would. But one of these painful points, one of the painful points is the additions that the group of authors is proposing to introduce in the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, to guarantee their social protection. It is a matter of complementing article 9. Today, the current law says that the wartime participants were persons who worked in territories that had been part of the former Union since 1944, and those who had been relocated from other countries since 1945, I emphasize, persons who had been relocated to the territory of Ukraine since 1945. But under the agreement between the Government of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic on September 9, 1944, and the Polish National Liberation Committee, the liberation began in 1944. And so there's legal inequality. The people who were resettled under the same agreement somewhere in 1945-1946 were granted the status of the participants in the war. Those who have fallen under these terrible cranes before are, you know, not part of the war. And so a group of authors are proposing the only change to article 9 where to write: not since 1945 have they been relocated to the territory of Ukraine, but have been relocated from other countries since 1944. All of it. This is the only correction, but this amendment applies to hundreds of, I did not agree, hundreds of thousands of people who have been displaced, and today, I do not know, give them God’s health, but how many of them will live. And so too in the context of the events that are today, too in the context of our attempts today and the successful attempts to find a common language in relation to the historical assessment of these facts, I would like to support this bill and thank you. In two minutes, it's hard to tell.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u112	Thank you. Jaroslav Ivanovich Jojik, please, very briefly. Prepare the Cachure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u113	Jaroslav Jojik, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Each third of the issues raised in citizens’ appeals and in meetings with voters relate to the problem of granting the status of a participant in the Great National War. In the past, a similar bill was voted on by the Supreme Council, and because of misunderstandings, it was not sufficient for him to adopt seven votes. One fact is that today we are considering four laws that deal with the same issue at the very same time is the urgency, the pain, and the need for us to make decisions. In his own time, assuming responsibility for the criminal decision of the U.S.R. and the Polish National Liberation Committee on the violent displacement of persons living in ethnic lands in Ukraine and Poland, and not seeking to atone for the physical and moral damage done, the Supreme Council approved the right of such persons to gain the status of war veterans. However, in determining the point of time from which forced displacement began, there was a historical inaccuracies that resulted in an unfair disregard for the fate of tens of thousands of Ukrainians resettled a year earlier. That is, article 9, paragraph 2, of the Second Part of the War, refers to persons who were displaced only after the 45th year, while mass forced displacements began in 44th year after the signing of the Ukrainian evacuation agreement between Poland and Polish citizens from the URSR area, which was signed on 9 September 1944. So according to data provided by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the State Archive of the Lviv Region and 44, 81,000 people were resettled, and in 45, there was a major relocation of 342,000 axes. In the 46th and 47th years, 118 thousand and 150,000 people were relocated respectively. In general, about 490,000 Ukrainians were deported, separated from their homes, and deprived of their property. The settlers were resettled in Volinsk, Ravensk, Ternopilsk, Lviv, and Ivano-Frankow areas. The rest of the Ukrainians, who had avoided displacement in many ways, were subjected to a tragic deportation in the 47th year, known as the Vistula Action. The estimated number of people and the cost of this project is small. Also in 44, in 45, 423 thousand people were displaced. Some 18 percent, or 76,000, of them remained parents and children until 1932. Given the importance of the issue, that time is passing, and those to whom this law is directed are older people who are less and less every day, and given the need to remove the great injustice caused by a small mistake, namely, to change the date, I urge you to adopt the bill immediately as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u114	Paul Kachur, please, your project.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u115	Paul Kachur, "Our Ukraine" faction, Rail constituency, Lviv. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Last week, a documentary called Volin was shown on UT-1. And actually, in the third series of this film, we have documentary footage showing how the Ukrainians were being relocated. Those who have had the opportunity to see these images understand how emotionally this problem is forcing us to give these people their dues today. There are two problems that exist today. It's a time of displacement. And here my colleagues argued well enough. I won't waste that time. But there's another factor that I'd like to put a little bit more focus on is the problem of moving. This is about the standard provided for in paragraph 2 of Article 9. The norm provides that the conditions that apply to the granting of status to those who have worked for this work status are passed on to those who have been resettled. What's going on? There's this ambiguity that's wrong today anyway. It is that the same requirements are dealt with by the same courts and by the other courts. And as a result, within one area, more than that, within one constituency in one district, the court considers that the age requirement applies to displaced persons, while in another area, the local court treats it differently. As a result, one district is a participant, for example, born in the 33rd year, not in the second district. You know how painful this is for people. The appeal for clarification to the Supreme Court of Ukraine did not solve the problem. The Supreme Court of Ukraine also believes that the legislator must make changes to the law in order to avoid double treatment. Therefore, a reference to the category of displaced citizens in paragraph 2 of the second paragraph of article 9 is proposed, and the procedure for granting the status of a participant in a war to persons who have been forcibly relocated to Ukraine from the territory of other States is proposed to be written in paragraph 5 of the second paragraph of article 9, by supplementing the law with the following paragraph: as well as those who, after 9 September 1944 - or more specifically, are now prepared by the working group to do so - forcibly relocated to the territory of other States, regardless of their age at the time of relocation. I would like only two arguments to conclude, considering that time is running out, that it is about people who have been forcibly deported, taken away from their homes, deprived of their possessions, and in many cases were taken away from their relatives and loved ones. Honourable MPs, Ukraine, as a civilized state, condemned the reported deportation and viewed it as a violation of human rights and freedoms. That is why our support for the proposed changes in the voting will allow us to correct injustices against specific people. And the second. The Second Universal Ukrainian Resolution requires that the issue of forced displacement be expedited in 1944-1946 by the adoption of a special law. I hope that our support will enable us to do a good job for those people. And I'm asking you to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u116	John Stojko, is it? No, we won't. I then ask the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Peter Stepanovich Cibenka. Please, Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u117	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the committee has carefully considered four bills: 2397, 2397/1, 2397/2, 2397/3. Indeed, the subject of all four bills is the same problem: the problem of moving Ukrainians from Polish lands and vice versa. But it's the process that I'm talking about that concerns us today. The committee, considering that one of the bills, namely Bill 2397, is a little bit more clearly spelled out, firstly, and secondly, there is a specific date from which we can count, and there is a certain logic in this, has decided to support this bill on a basis, i.e. 2397/1, and all the other bills are taken into account when preparing for the second reading. So the committee objects to the proposal of one of the authors who has just spoken about accepting one of the documents in the first reading, in the second and in the final edition. This may not be right. We need to base one document, namely 2397, on the recommendation of the committee, and in preparing for the second reading, we need to take into account three other bills that relate to the same problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u118	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss this document? Let's write it down, please, more specifically on the board. Dear people's deputies, read carefully the document, it says: short-circuited procedure. Government, position of government on the bill proposals. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Taking into account the social consequences of the proposed changes to the law in force, the government supports the bills introduced by the Ukrainian national deputies, Yulia Timoshenko, Jaroslav Jojik, John Stojk. The bill proposed by the national deputy Paul Kachur is not supported by the government because, in accordance with article 9, paragraph 5, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guarantees of Their Social Protection, which is proposed to make changes, members of the war are recognized as persons who, after liberation from concentration camps, ghettos and other cities of forced detention, were relocated to the territory of the former Soviet Union. If this legislative initiative is transferred to paragraph two of the article, the bill introduced by the national MP, Paul Kachur, can also be supported. In view of the above, the government supports the proposals of the National Deputies and the Committee of the Supreme Council in the matter of pensioners, veterans, and disabled persons with regard to the adoption of the bills under consideration in the first reading and their integration into the second reading as a single bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u119	Yeah, we got names on the board. Let's move on to the discussion: two for, two for against. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u120	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I would like to thank all the drafters -- and Timoshenko, Turkin, Belarus, Taran, and Jojik, and Paul Kachura -- and I would like to thank Stojko for bringing this up. At the same time, I do not agree with the conclusion reached by the committee today. Why don't I? Because this conclusion is only based on the fact that science and expertise and the government want to reduce as much as possible the number of these disadvantaged people who need to be expanded by the law. I see that the law should be extended, I remind you that the law on the status of war veterans, guarantees their social protection to war participants, refers to persons who have been forcibly relocated to Ukraine from other countries since the 45th year. So, and those people that were mentioned in the project that were now reported -- after 9 September and 9 September, in fact, historically only 44 years, so I think it would be absolutely right if these bills were all combined now and all the authors would keep authorship of this project, but the term to be given -- since 1944. So the number of people is definitely going to increase, but these people aren't that many left, first of all. And secondly, they were not justly punished because the law was passed in a bad way about them and they didn't want to hear them. So I think it's going to be a restoration of justice when we write it back in 1944. So starting with Project 2397 and then all of the others just complementing it with comments that it's going to cost a certain amount of money, so it's going to cost a certain amount, even if it's calculated that it's going to be 32 million dollars. 32 million dollars that are believed to be going to these people are dollars compared to what is being stolen even when a small enterprise is privatized. So I don't think I need to consider these costs, the only thing we're adopting is the law of January 1, 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u121	Yuri Solomatin, there is. Yuri Solomatin, your position, please. Then there's Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u122	Yuri Solomatin. The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The key issue for this whole bill block is the recognition of the evacuation agreement that was adopted in 1944 between the USSR government and the Polish National Liberation Committee. Underline: Evacuation agreement. The point was that it was not forced forced eviction, but evacuation with a measure of compensation for the loss and provision of certain facilities in new locations. It actually happened the way it corresponds to the content of the word "evacuation," or it happened differently -- that's the key question. So until now, researchers, historians, have been studying this issue, arguing, and there is no final conclusion on this key issue. On an emotional level, representatives of some political forces claim that this was certainly a deportation made by totalitarian methods, even under the laws of a feudal society and so on and so forth. At the level of emotion, at the level of performances in the media, that's understandable. On a national level, the adoption of appropriate laws requires a certain documentary basis. Unfortunately, she's not here today. So I think that these laws today have more political implications, a subtext that uses certain sections of the population that live. Who suffered and who now lives in Galicina and Volina. And this is all the days before the future presidential election campaign. So what I'd like to say is that without a decision at the state level on the evacuation agreement, this law would be considered inappropriate and that would be groundless. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u123	Andrew School, please. One, one, against us. Please, Andrew School. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u124	Andrew School, Timoshenko Block, 121 constituency. I would like to point out that I represent the constituency of the city of the towns, which is considered the capital of all the deported Ukrainians from Poland. There are almost half the population of the region, deported and expelled from their lands, which then went to the Polish state. I want to say that every single speech I make in front of the electorate starts and ends with the question of when these days of eviction will be separated, because understand, when the Law on Deportation is passed, of course, there are masses of people that are slightly increased, which are deported. But so many people until then, under compulsion, force of coercion, force of fear, force of other circumstances, left occupied places, taking only what could be brought into their hands. Therefore, it is necessary to accept the time adjustment, that is, from January 1, 1944. It's not going to add a lot of people, but these people are alive, they're now living to their age, and they're waiting for something from their own country, at least some attention. This will be our attention from the legislators. Believe that we will help those who are in need, who have left their homes, and thus far cannot go to their home country, because a foreign passport is too expensive for them. They can't look at the place where they were expelled, the place where their house was, because very often they burned entire Ukrainian villages. And they were mixed up no longer even dreaming of coming back, because there was nowhere else to go. I'm not talking about the "Visa" operation, which was conducted in general in disgrace, it was an extraordinary phenomenon that could have happened on the border of Ukraine. And we have to admit it sooner or later, because, as it was, no invaders did so. At the time, the Polish authorities were not the invaders, but they were the owners of these lands. And how to fight guerrillas was evicted, that is, how to fight guerrillas, how to evict the entire population to the north of Poland. And although, of course, this bill only touches on the issue a little bit, but I just want to emphasize it. We have to take the basis of a single bill that would be made out of these three here four are meant to be, but to be based on the Timoshenko project only for the simple reason that there are clearly and justifiably written dates - from January 1, 1944. If we accept it, at least we'll help these people a little bit. And the coins they get, believe me, will not save their miserable situation, but at least it will be an expression of our attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Who is against this bill? I beg you one minute then, Vladimir Alexandrovich. We're all good. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u126	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky Districts, Our Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenka Block. Dear voters and distinguished fellow national MPs! I'm an easter, a deep easter from South Winnitzka. My family did not pass through these events. But I'll tell you honestly. Deeply respecting the position and political and civil position of any human being, more deputies still sounded unnatural and painful to me by the national MP Solomon. Understand me correctly. I say again, I'm an Easterner, but I've been chosen in Western Ukraine, and I've listened to these terrible stories that have passed over entire human lives and families. We should be with you today without emotion, but consider the moment that such a bill has been passed to us. It's the only thing that didn't add up in a year. And we only make one single correction this year. Yet, I would have done so regardless of my age. This is the gold grain that is in the bill of the national deputy of Kachura. But I want to remind you, dear fellows, that the history of our people is very often absurd, unfortunately, it is often tragic and allogic. And what happened to a huge number of people who were completely forcibly evicted from their seats, and that they today have no opportunity even to take this passport to go, to worship the graves of their parents and their children, I don't think any of the MPs are so tough that they don't want to go. We arrived with you, fellow believers, and the older and younger ones, of course, had a difficult role to play. After all that has happened to our nation, to our people, to give our hand today to those people to whom no one has for a century or half a century has paid no attention, who have been outside the law at all. And those who spoke of it were very whispered, passing it on to their children. Our civic duty today, I say again on behalf of the independent Ukraine that they wanted, by the way, just as we did today to give these people a hand. And if we're talking about these pitiful coins that need to be allocated, our authority is stealing hundreds of times today, much more of that money than we're going to return to these people. Above all, let us restore our faith in justice, historical justice, and faith in our Fatherland. I also propose to take from the Kachura Bill, regardless of age, I would take from the Kachura bill, for example, the moment where it speaks of ghettos and concentration camps and so forth. It would be very important to bring it in here. And you can see, all of these bills, they're all, in fact, they're all consenting. All they have to do is get them into one pack. And we're going to have a very good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u127	Okay. Thank you. Let's finish. Mikhail Kosov, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u128	Michael Kossov, faction of our Ukraine, the Reform and Order Party. Hence, in connection with the discussion of the matter, there is one specific proposal. This question has two aspects. The first unwittingly raised the deputy Solomonin. And in this context, we should really go to the Cabinet of Ministers to finally have the Cabinet of Ministers, including your ministry, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the State Committee on Nationalities and Migration finalize the draft law on the recognition of deported Ukrainians who had moved from Poland to Ukraine in 1944, 1945, in 1946, in 1951. That's another question. And I think that the bill that's already under way in the Cabinet of Ministers should finally be finished and then, in fact, it was determined whether it was deportation, or whether it was actually what was called Mr. Solomon's, in those days -- voluntary forced eviction. With regard to today’s issue, it is usually to be accepted in the way that the national MPs have proposed, bringing it all together in the same project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u129	Thank you. Replica, Yuri Solomatin Solomon’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u130	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to be understood correctly. It's a very difficult situation, like the one we're going to be discussing this week in connection with the 60th anniversary of the Volin tragedy. That's the first one. The other one. There are documents that do not exist until now and that have not been replaced. I mean the deal that was between the USSR governments and the Polish National Liberation Committee, the evacuation agreement. If we're going to rewrite history now, then we have to rewrite this agreement. And the last. About the money. If 500,000 people were resettled, there are 100,000 relatives now, descendants, 10,000 dollars -- a billion dollars -- it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u131	Thank you. Microphone. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Social Status of War Veterans, guarantees of their social protection has been completed. [[concerning persons who have been relocated to Ukraine since 1944]] The decision will be made on the day of the vote, taking into account the discussion. I would suggest that we continue our work now for another 15 minutes, the morning session, and consider a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax. [[on improving the VAT compensation mechanism]] Reporter: Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking's Subcommittee, Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich. Please, Vitaly Yuriovich. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u132	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw immediate attention to the fact that the bill before the Committee has now been tabled to replace the previous draft, which took into account the comments of the Scientific and Expert Office, the proposals of the Committee on Finance and Banking. And now I just haven't seen that paper in the hall yet. The economic efficiency of the value added tax as a tax on consumption depends primarily on how timely and fully the State fulfils its safeguards for VAT reimbursement. To date, VAT debt amounts to 7.5 billion. Of these, some 3 billion sums of overdue budgetary compensation. These are actually the 3 billion that have been removed from the enterprises, which reduces the liquidity of the enterprise and thus makes it less competitive in the world markets. One reason for this situation is the existing imperfect VAT mechanism, which consists of numerous sub-legislative acts. The proposed project provides State guarantees for budgetary compensation through the establishment of a new budget reimbursement mechanism in principle. This mechanism entails, in fact, automatic reimbursement of the value added tax of the tax authorities. Reimbursement shall be made by the authorities of the State Treasury on the basis of the tax declaration, the second copy of which shall be forwarded to the treasury authorities. Reimbursement is provided for 40 days for export refunds and 100 calendar days for internal submission to taxpayers of the declaration stating the amount of the reimbursement. Of these, 30 and 90 days are taken to tax checks on enterprises and 10 days are given to treasury bodies to transfer money to the bank account of the VAT payer. In the event that the tax authorities have sufficient grounds to consider the budgetary compensation claimed in the declaration to be unfounded, such a tax authority shall apply to the court for the non-reimbursement of the tax. Involvement of tax authorities in the recovery process is otherwise prohibited, i.e. without recourse to the court. The draft budget mechanism would not be able to exist without restructuring the amounts of the old accrued budget debt for VAT reimbursement, so it was proposed to submit to the contributors the right to voluntarily restructure the overdue budget debt for VAT for a period of five years, with the form of domestic government bonds. Their repayments will extend by five years, with a proportional annual payment of 20 per cent, and should be provided for annually in the State budget. Bonds are issued on budgetary debt, which is confirmed as at 1 April 2003 at the rate set by the Cabinet of Ministers, but not less than 120 per cent of the annual rate of the National Bank at the time of issuance of the bonds. It's in general about this bill. I would like to reiterate once again that most of the comments, those that have been added to the Committee's proposals, have now been made, and the Committee, having considered the law, proposes that it be adopted on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u133	Please sit down, Vitaly Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the discussion. On the board, please, the names of the national MPs who signed up. Mikola Shershun, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. How is it, Yuri Anatolyovich, that you're fourth now? Get ready to pull the trigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u134	Mikola Shershun, Ravenshing, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine Dear National Deputies! Today's discussion around the bill confirms once again that the tax system in Ukraine is a serious obstacle to the development of the Ukrainian economy and requires fundamental changes. The constant patching of it through the introduction of systemless complements and the adjustment does not add balance or transparency or clarity. More than that, an incredibly powerful tax press that leads many businesses to bankruptcy or even to their escape into the shadow business. remains essentially unchanged. At least take the VAT, as far as he's concerned. The problem of paying off the budget debt with reimbursement of the value added tax is being considered more than 10 times by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but so far no effective mechanism has been found to solve it. In addition, for many business and power advocates, this has become just an area of profit, so the attempt of the people's deputies Burjak and Homutinnik once again to resolve the problem of paying taxes on added value is correct and timely. According to members of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine, the establishment of the only rules for compensation from the tax budget for the added value of extending the repayment period to 100 calendar days may have a positive impact on the overall situation in the area indicated. But the draft law also contains major shortcomings that need to be carefully worked out in preparation for the second reading. This is especially true of the absence of mechanisms to automatically compensate VAT from the state budget. Once again, the company will have to share part of the amount of compensation with the official. Nor is the bill provided for in the law in force according to which the amounts not reimbursed to the taxpayer are considered to be budgetary debt for a certain period of time. This is the norm that allows taxpayers even to appeal to a court if necessary. The negative resonance will also have the introduction of a mechanism to repay the debt by both domestic and state loans. Such a mechanism will lead to a significant reduction in the availability of living money to the State Budget, and businesses lose their circulation costs. In general, the faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine believes that the introduction of this law will help to improve the administration of the added value, repayment and non-indemnity of debt from tax compensation for the added value. We propose to support a bill that takes into account the suggestions made and the comments made. At the same time, we believe that it would have been necessary to concentrate long ago on the efforts of all national deputies, government officials, tax collectors around the development of the Tax Code. By the way, the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the past has decided on a moratorium on any amendment to the tax laws before the adoption of the code. It seems that we too could have acted on that decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u135	Vladimir Masterskin, please. Is there a Master? None. Yuri Carmazin, please. Prepare Matviyenko. Boyko Volodymyr Seminovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u136	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Honorable national MPs, respected colleagues, respected entrepreneurs, Ukrainian citizens. What is proposed for the law for which you have now been asked to vote? This law, under the form of an improvement in the compensation mechanism of the State Budget, amounts added to the tax, makes a complete robbery of all businesses. Think about what's going on. Tax payers are seriously deteriorating, as today about 7 billion VAT is unreparable, spending about 4 billion dollars. Tax on added value is already the death of entrepreneurship. Instead of what was in the law, where there was a time limit for reimbursement of taxes from the 1 month budget, it would now be 3 months, not even 3 days, and 3 and 10 days: 100 calendar days are recorded. Moreover, all the positive things in the law in force are thrown out, especially by article 7.7. 3 the order in which the tax is calculated and paid when the result of the reporting period is determined in accordance with sub-paragraph 7.7. 1 of this article is negative. This amount is to be reimbursed to the taxpayer from the State Budget during the month following the submission of the declaration. They're shutting down the whole point. I'm not going to quote him all the more right now. Next, they prohibit an existing norm where the taxpayer was entitled at any time after a budget debt had arisen, to appeal to the court for the collection of budget funds and for the liability of officials responsible for the non-timely compensation of excessively paid taxes. Then I ask, who is interested in such a law? Clearly, the ears of Yanukovic, the government of Yanukovic, are sticking behind it. Now, and this is by the hands of the deputies to do, I'm surprised that such a bill could have been signed in the past by the entrepreneur Sergey Burjak, because the introduction of this mechanism, including the issuance of bonds that are not currently provided for in other laws that are not provided for by the State Budget Act as an internal debt of the state, is an absolute statement of blank papers. So I'm absolutely against this law and I'm asking the national MPs of the majority, open your eyes, people will curse you if you accept these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u137	Vladimir Seminovich Boyko of the European Choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u138	Vladimir Boyko, "One Ukraine" faction. So the first reason why this law will not pass is because this is where the Yanukovic Government was spoken. But you've forgotten one thing that the VAT Act doesn't work for one reason that we're guilty, especially the deputies. Because the Value Added Tax Act can't work because if there's some indulgences and value added tax exemptions for different SEAs, we've got a lot of these options here, and of course it works like this: whoever works today has to pay twice by washing money out of circulation, and by not returning VAT. This law will not be passed for one reason. It further exacerbates the situation of exporters and will not work. First. There's a clear situation. We were meeting with the First Vice Prime Minister and finished all the points. For today, only through the court can it be obtained in order to obtain the conclusion of the tax inspection. It is also written here: In order to make a declaration after the goods have crossed the border, the tax inspection must be stamped in order to return the goods. I assure you, the tax inspection will never set it up. Second. We agreed that the return should come in 30 days. And third, most importantly. The Government needs to look at and see how much we are losing on what we have decided to do here by making a zero VAT rate on gas imports, and what we have won from this. Why there is no VAT on agricultural products. You figure out how much we lose in markets when we all get, we buy from VAT, and then, when we get to the end user, return the zero. And why it's all about those who work in Ukraine today. And then you'll understand. In principle, I assure you that none of the enterprises that work today agree normally to carry out debt restructuring for five years or as long as it takes for the State to work, to help the State. But the principle of VAT return must be clearly and directly reflected. And then, I'm sure this law will pass and it will work. Or a second question. Can VAT work in our country? In order for VAT to work, I think many people have understood both in the Government and in the Hall that it cannot and will not work until a clear system is in place and the normal relationship will be between consumers and producers. And today it's just for a lot of people, and, of course, everything else. That's why I don't think that law will pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u139	Thank you. Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u140	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I don't think we have to discuss going through it in this room or not. We have to say he doesn't have to go through. And then it's going to be a position expressed by the people's deputies, and it would be understandable. In general, I would like to point out that this bill, both of them, is aimed at, well, the government was thinking, how about not returning VAT? How can you not come back? We thought about it, and we came up with a bill. All of it. Too bad the MPs signed. Because I always say that MPs prepare better laws than the government. The government must have listened and decided, "Let some kind of laws and MPs prepare." So I'll be honest with you, that's the conclusion of this bill. In general, we need to talk about whether a tax on added value is needed as a phenomenon in Ukraine. Because budget filling, well, doesn't take place to the extent that this added-value tax law is written. It's not an object, of course, of this bill. But it says here, "to improve the VAT compensation mechanism." And the very perfect mechanism for paying off VAT is not going to compensate, and it's going to be the perfect mechanism in this bill. So, of course, the losses that are going to have to be returned to those who have exported their products and want to get VAT, of course, there would be a lot of examples here as a whole, I, as a foreign MP, know how the VAT is coming back at all. Representatives of the same tax inspection take, create an enterprise, give documents. The papers have moved across the border, they've come back, and compensation is on its way. Because of the court, we know how it works and how it all comes back. So increasing the return term from 30 to 100 days is the same thing as saying, once again, it's an explanation that the government is simply giving a signal that's so instructive that we don't want to return the VAT and don't call us. So I think all those who represent the enterprise here. All those who represent manufacturers here. The producers and those who sell the goods have their own views on the bill by voting. I would like him to win 50 or 60 votes there, and we realized that at least some of the people in this room want the Ukrainian enterprise not to die definitively. Because I'm saying once again, we need to review the Law on Added Value Tax. He's been in for a while. And we, we know that temporary is permanent. And we took an example from France, when the French, on goods of extremely popular use, i.e. increased demand, put this tax on added value and it only works there now as a regulatory law. We have him working as a fiscal, as a banter, as a deterrent to the development of Ukrainian entrepreneurship. And there's a really great trick here -- just not return the VAT and all. And all of these word preambles, which are here, are aimed only at concealing the government's unwillingness to return VAT to entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-08-m0.u141	Is there anyone behind this bill? Anyone against it? Volodymyr Kirilovich, are you "for or against"? No, I can see so much that you're against this bill. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We will be appointed on the day of the vote. And now I'm calling the morning session closed. The evening session will take place at 4:00 p.m. Good luck.
