ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:58]] A total of 431 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleague, the national deputy of Ukraine, Mikoli Catherinechuk. Let's welcome him, wish him every success and every good thing. Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. Members of factions and groups, please apply. In the meantime, when there is no objection, I will announce questions that have come in line with the new procedure. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Julius Timoshenko to the President of Ukraine on the issue of the assignment of the title of Hero of Ukraine to the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine Alexander Alexiyovich Shalimov. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:53]] For 244 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:07:14]] For 285 Decision taken. Vladimir Skomarovski to the President of Ukraine on the inadequacy of Ukrainian legislation. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:49]] For 116 The decision is not taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers decree on financing the construction of a cooperative housing building in Hmělnické. Igora Jeremeieva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on speeding up the approval by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the order of write-off of unpaid amounts of natural gas. Mikoli Kulczynski to Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with his dissatisfaction with the parliamentary request for the implementation of the National Home Program. Gregory of Omelchenka and Michael Wolinz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Coordinating Committee for Combating Corruption and Organized Crime with the President of Ukraine, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on taking immediate action to implement the decision of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption of 11 June 2003 concerning the discharge from the internal affairs bodies of the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the Libyan Railway. July Timoshenko to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of homeless military personnel and the situation surrounding Military City 292. Vasil Nadraga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on compensation for costs caused by regulating the prices of services provided to the population by water and water companies in the Luhansk region. Jurya Artemenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the verification of the legality of the activities of the Privatbank commercial bank in international financial transactions. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Coordinating Committee on Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime under the President of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs for the Verification of Corruption Acts, Abuse of Service, Exceeding of Service Powers, Service Counterfeiting, Disposal of State Property on a large scale by the former Director of the State Enterprise, WestCordernaftofgage, Wacebi, Suffocation of this individual leaders of the Ivano-Frankov Regional Public Administration. Viktor Rozwadowski to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitr Tobacco, regarding the restructuring of the Lipnian district hospital of the Lubar district of Žitomir district into a residential building for elderly citizens of the general type and a rural medical clinic. Andrew School to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the acquisition by the joint venture "Not" of the Trojanda disabled collective enterprise in Lviv. Alexander Turchinov to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine on the illegal actions of officials of the open shareholders association Vibosparator in the illegality of acting on the procedure for the resolution and bankruptcy of the open shareholders company Vibosparator. Zary Katuszevoy to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the complaint of a citizen of Tutov to the head of the Simferopol City Executive Committee. Vladimir Puzakova - to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine for refusing Malovskysky district prosecutor's office of the Kirovograd district for violating a criminal case against members of the electoral board for violating electoral legislation. Vladimir Yavorowski - to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a criminal offence involving an armed attack on the night of November 3nd against the National Association of Ukrainian Writers, inspired by the President's Administration. Georgia Kruczkova - to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the circumstances of the death of the defendant, Sergey Berdugin, who is being tried in the Odessa Court of Appeal. Vladimir Leschchenka, Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, on the basis of the imbalance between the levels of pension increases and the accrued subsidies of the family from the city of Primika in the Chernigiv region. Georgia Manchulenka is the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the illegal sale of 25 hectares of land in the territory of the International Airport Borispold. Viktor Razwadowski, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on reinstatement of the internal affairs of Alexander Malemonenka. Jury Pavlnka is with the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the capture and illegal detention of the Ukrainian National Deputy in the palace of young "Youth" Donecka by unknown persons. Vladimir Leschchenka, Minister of Health of Ukraine, for the conduct of the endoprostetic exercise of the city of Priluka in the Chernigiv region. Vladimir Yavorowski, Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the participation of the Pecher District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in an armed attack on the night of November 2nd on 3rd against the National Association of Ukrainian Writers, inspired by the President's Administration. Vladimir Puzakov to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for violations committed by the Kirov local court of the city of Kirovgrad in the case of Mikola Chubahy, a resident of Kirovgrad. Zarai Katesheva to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for the purpose of examining the appeal against the local court and determining the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Mikoli Kuharczuk to the head of the State Committee on Construction and Architecture of the Kiev City Head on violations of Ukrainian laws on the protection of historical and cultural heritage, on the foundations of construction, on architectural activities in the construction of the office-goal complex of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine in the zone of the State Historical and Architectural Reserve of the Old Kiev. Vitalia Oluyka to the head of Ukraine’s State Border Service regarding the proportionality of pensioning to the military service of Ukraine’s state border service. Vladimir Bronnikov to the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine for the verification of the financial and economic activities of the Open Association of Orsilmash, Orikh. Yuri Karmazin to the Kiev City Head, head of the Kiev City State Administration for a project to redesign the Truhanov area in Kiev. Vasil Onopenek to the prosecutor of the Herson region for violating the leadership of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate of the Ukrainian Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organization Act. Igor Ostas to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Coordinating Committee to Combat Corruption and Organized Crime at the President of Ukraine on the legality of the activities of the Prosecutor's Office of the Jewish Region of Lviv. Vladimir Puzakov to the Director of the State Department of Automobile Transport on the extremely critical situation that has emerged in the Kirovograd City Independent Transport Association as a result of a gross violation of effective legislation by employees of the Ukrainian State Department of Automobile Transport. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation of the supply of drinking water to the population and the material and technical state of the water supply facilities of villages and villages in the Grand Alexandria region of the Hersonian region. All requests that have been made, we move on to statements from factions, MPs and statements, messages and information. From the MP's "Industrials and Entrepreneurs" and "Trubic Ukraine" party, Anatoly Rahansky has the word to prepare Leuk Lukyanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u2	Thank you. Anatoly Rahan's electoral district, faction of political parties "Industry and Entrepreneurs" "Trudova Ukraine". Dear colleagues! Our faction is concerned about the fate of 580 military homes in which there are 131,000 apartments, where there are about 500,000 people. Their infrastructure is on the balance sheet of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. At the same time, the Law of Ukraine and the relevant decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers on the transfer of these towns to the ministries and local authorities are not being implemented. Thus, in the current year, only ten percent of the planned ones have been transferred. In my neighborhood, a few of these towns, the problem of handing them over, the hostages, unfortunately, remain people. For days the fate of such a town, namely the village of Novo Fedorovka garrison Saki-4, had to decide in the east with representatives of the Ministry of Defence. At the invitation of such a representative, I spent a month and a half. Regrettably, the senior officials of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence are not in a hurry to implement their minister’s resolution, and the officials surrounding the minister are failing to meet the national deputy minister. The people of this town in the east justly accused the Ministry of Defence, which is not properly accounted for by the energy supply, as a result of which the heating season has not yet begun, although there is no debt for the population. It has to be noted that the efforts of the MPs to the town have brought up gas, which has greatly reduced energy costs, allowing the population to use natural gas. This attitude of the Ministry of Defence regarding the fate of these objects is also passed on to the local garrison, which, instead of fruitful cooperation with local authorities, proposes to eliminate the village council, where 7,000 people live. I am sure that similar situations take place in other towns. Therefore, our faction suggests that the Ministry of Defence prepare these objects in a timely manner, develop an effective mechanism for their transmission over the years, provided that at least 90 days are required to prepare the documentation. The Budget Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in its 2004 budget, to provide subsidies to local authorities for the further maintenance of the infrastructure of these towns. I ask the chairman to consider my statement as a request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence, the Committee on Budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u3	Thank you. Please provide the secretariat with an appropriate request. The term from the BUT faction is given by the national deputy Lukyanenko. Prepare Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u4	Honorable Leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Deputies! You and I have approved a number of regulations regarding famine in Ukraine. The first decree was passed on November 26, 2002. Then you and I approved the address to the Ukrainian people on May 14, 2003. In the 2002 decree on the 70th anniversary of the famine in Ukraine, you and I decided to set up section 3 of article 1: "Creating State Centers for Research into the Causes and Consequences of Hunger in Ukraine." Next. Section 7 of Article 1: "Implementing international measures to recognize the famine in Ukraine in 1932-1933 by State policy of genocide against the Ukrainian people." Item 2. "Introduce recognition by international compatriots of the 1932-1933 famine in Ukraine as an act of genocide against the Ukrainian people. The third point. Invite the UN General Assembly to honor the memory of the victims of famine in Ukraine in 1932-1933 by a minute of silence before the start of one of the sessions. Fourth. To promote the creation of the International Museum of Genocide under the auspices of the United Nations. Our address with you since May 14 is the same as genocide, famine in 1932-1933 by the genocide of the Ukrainian nation. You and I have committed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to work at the United Nations to enforce the Supreme Council’s decree. Meanwhile, the United Nations Ministry of Foreign Affairs failed to perform the function that was to be performed. A representative of Russia Putin spoke at the United Nations and said there were famines, famines everywhere in the north, the Caucasus and so on, and Ukraine. Not a United Nations resolution, but a declaration signed by 26 or more nations. Thus the United Nations did not approve a resolution to be adopted under the insistence of our Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What I'm asking is, what did our Foreign Ministry do, that it didn't do the job? And now the problem of recognition, the international recognition of the genocide of the Ukrainian nation, has been postponed to the next five years. We will not stop before working to explain to the entire world the genocide of the Ukrainian nation, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs failed to do what was to be done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u5	Thank you. The word from the Parliamentary Group "European Choice" is given to the National Deputy Bondarenko, to prepare Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u6	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Which one of you has been to the autumn markets this year, has seen fruits and vegetables on the benches of the mountains. Unlike gardens and vegetables, this year has been a good year. But prices are crazy. And what's important is that it's sad. All sellers in all markets have the same prices. So in Kiev, in Zaporozhye, in Odessa, anywhere. The reason is known. The market oligarchs buy all or almost all places, hire sellers, produce their own products, and set monopolistically high prices. There are other schemes. But it's not about the schematics, it's about the price monopolization and the customers. As a result, there is also some kind of production near the roadway, because it is being blown up. And she's been standing up for a long time. Even more damaging is the situation with milk and meat. In this direction, in addition to the market oligarchs, the monopoly is also a reprocessing branch. By means of transportation problems, the farmers are offered five bracelets per kilogram of meat, and they are sold in 15-20. Milk is taken for 35-40 copies, sold for a bracelet of twenty-fifty. Animal production has become either destructive or inconvenient. This disadvantage lasts for two years, and it is already a threat to disaster. The horrors of the commodity markets are known to all. Smuggling goods, tax evasion, not millions of dollars, but billions. When there were summer vacations, I learned in Ukraine’s markets who were such market oligarchs. It turns out that these are former generals and colonels, not old-age outlaws, but fat red men. And it's not just the military, it's the others. And everyone's wearing jeans, jeeps, all mobile phones, and some government apartments have phones. I don't know the quality of the grenade, but the market killings are amazing. These people are often associated with generals, authorities, governments, and so the business is not sinking. When we were looking at the government program, I was excited about the problem, and in the government bed, they supported me. But there are no changes. Therefore, please consider my statement as a request to the Prime Minister. But I'm also addressing you, dear colleagues. Let us leave, of course, slogans and theories, solve a problem that hurts all people and requires any response!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u7	Grigory Ivanovich, please complete the regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u8	There is only one legal document for the market and the Council of Ministers of the Union of the RSR. He was born in 1987. Anatoly Ivanovich, please give an appropriate commission to the profile committee. I'm willing to get involved in this and prepare an appropriate draft of the law and bring it up to date. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u9	Thank you. Please form as a parliamentary request. As far as the committee's concerned, cooperate, bring it to a meeting. The word from the faction "Our Ukraine" has a national deputy, Assadchev, to prepare the Police.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u10	Thank you. Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka faction "Our Ukraine". Statement by the faction "Our Ukraine" on the political situation in Ukraine: The "Our Ukraine" faction strongly opposes the insolent and unconceivable attack of power on the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens against the reduction of social guarantees and the restriction of social protection of the population. Traveling bread, food, transportation, and utilities Millions of people are becoming poorer every day. The social crisis is silenced by controlled authorities and oligarchic clans, the press. The President and his Administration have imposed a severe censorship, citizens deprived of access to the right information about the situation in the country. The authorities limit their right to freedom of peaceful congregations, to protest against human rights violations. The government has launched a dirty campaign against opposition forces that protect national interests, rights, and freedoms of citizens. The media on the Banking team is spreading slanders on the block of "Our Ukraine." At that time, the government deprives citizens of the right guaranteed by the Constitution to earn their living by refusing to raise the minimum wage, which is three times lower than the minimum of living, denies to millions of pensioners in the constitutional right to receive pensions, not less than the minimum of living. The government exerts pressure on small and medium - size businesses, introducing new fights to fill the pockets of money - launderers. The government does not have the support of the people, it wants to deprive Ukrainian citizens of the right to change power, the right to elect a president, so it fears direct presidential elections, which will be the verdict of the current regime. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine did not defend democracy. Neither did the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in which the administrative majority, along with the communists, violated the requirements of the Supreme Council and the Constitution of Ukraine. The Communist Party received the portfolio of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in exchange for the Presidential candidacy of the Attorney General. The cover-up has become clear. Voters have demonstrated the company's deep integration into today's system of power. The Communists are now in charge of Parliament, sharing with it all responsibility for the situation in Ukraine, for the social status of its citizens. "Our Ukraine" requires halting the increase in prices for bread and other food products, carrying out the indexation of wages and pensions, compensating for their undervaluation as a result of price increases, raising the minimum wage to the minimum of living, putting an end to tax administrative pressure on small and medium-sized businesses, enacting a law on the election of Ukrainian national deputies on a proportionate basis, guaranteeing the direct election of the President by Ukrainian citizens. The "Our Ukraine" faction urges the Ukrainian people to defend their constitutional rights. Together, we will give our backs to the anti-national authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u11	Thank you. Valeriy Mihajlovich, you know very well the Constitution, you know that only the President can recommend the Attorney General's candidacy. The Communist faction gives Andrew Polito a word to prepare the Oluika.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u12	Andrew Politt, faction of the company, Lenin Komsomol of Ukraine Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished MPs, members of the media! On 1 November 2003, a member of Ukraine's Lenin Komsomol, Sergey Berdügin, died in Odessa. A 20-year-old Komsomollet was accused of terrorist activity and was on a candally known so-called Odessa case number 144. According to the findings of the death certificate, the death of Berdügin was caused by serious injuries that were incompatible with life. It's a abdominal hematoma and a liver rupture, a closed trauma to the abdomen. The nature of these injuries can cause no doubt, Berdügin died as a result of brutal beatings. In fact, this document is evidence of the cynical killing of a cosmopolitan tortured by Gestapo methods of extorting testimony. His killers are the direct heirs of Hitler's reprimands to those who tortured and executed young-timers. The tragic fact of the death of a young Odessa commodore exacerbates one more, in a truly wild circumstance, the death of sick Berdügin he died handcuffed to a hospital bed. In a country where such a crime has become possible, it is not appropriate to treat the defendants with an anti-humanity approach to the word democracy itself. In a country where this brutal killing of a young man has become possible there is no and there can be no respect for human rights and, above all, the fundamental right to life and liberty. The death of Berdügin is the conviction of the entire law enforcement, judicial, prison system of the present Ukraine, the entire bourgeois regime that is harassing and killing its people. The torture of Berdügin and other political prisoners shows that the organizers and contracting authorities of the process against terrorists do not have the necessary evidence. The culprits of Berdügin’s death are trying to conceal the real cause of his death by issuing completely ridiculous versions of short-term liver cancer. However, in medical detention, I demonstrate that death is clearly indicated by what actually killed the arrested Komsomolite. The Komsomol of Ukraine gave a principled assessment of the criminal indemnity of Ukrainian special forces. Earlier in speaking from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, we had declared the beating of political prisoners and demanded prompt investigation of those facts. However, the Human Rights Commissioner's commission did not detect violations of the rights of arrested Somalis; its members surrendered to the prison administration. The Attorney-General's Office, which had been obliged to scrutinize the information on the torture of political prisoners, had limited itself to the normal write-off. Today, we reiterate our call to the Office of the Attorney-General and the Human Rights Commissioner. We require a thorough investigation into the murder of Berdügin and the strict punishment of those responsible for his death of officials, staff members of the BSS, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the prison department. We require an independent review of the health status of prisoners there. We firmly state that the Commodore will not allow the killing of its members to continue, and the death of the Commodore will not go unpunished. And I ask, distinguished colleagues, to observe a minute of silence for the memory of our comrade who died from the actions of the criminal regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u14	Please consider my request to the Attorney-General and the Commissioner of the High Council for Human Rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u15	Please inform the secretariat accordingly, the representative of the NDP - Vitaly Oluyko faction has to prepare for Nikolaynka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u16	Dear National Deputies! In the hops region, electricity tariffs are the highest among the areas of our Ukraine and continue to rise. This situation is typical of those Ukrainian regions that consume small amounts of electricity, have developed electricity, and have few electricity consumers in the first class of electricity. For example. The restricted area consumes almost 10 times as much electricity as Hmelnicka, and thus the electricity tariff for second - class consumers is 46 percent lower. In the Dnipropetrovsk region, 38 percent, in the Donetsk region, 27 percent. Inordinately high tariffs on electricity in areas with low industrial potential increase the cost of production, which in turn makes them uncompetitive. For this reason, such regions are unattractive to investors. The situation is further exacerbated by the presence of a hop nuclear power plant that produces and releases electricity at several times the cost of its holiday prices. In order to protect domestic producers, to attract additional investments, to boost production, we believe that electricity tariffs must be levelled in all regions of Ukraine. This can be achieved through a differentiated installation for energy-discharge areas, with a share of 70, 80 percent and more. In view of the above, we ask the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to give appropriate instructions to develop a differentiated installation mechanism for energy purchasing energy prices for electricity to offset retail electricity tariffs throughout Ukraine. Please consider my speech as a national MP to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u17	Thank you. Please provide the secretariat with an appropriate form. The word is given to the Socialist faction of Stanislaw Nikolayenko. Get ready, Proscarat.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u18	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, voters! Nikolainka, Socialist faction of Ukraine, Hersonian. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine today is forced to inform all Ukrainian citizens of the alarming situation and of the disgraceful incident that occurred just yesterday in the Lugansk region of the Novomosk region. There was the first secretary of our socialist party, Alexander Ivanovna Kovalova, who, in defending the peasants ’ interests, condemned more than 50,000 dollars that had been unlawfully removed from the peasants. Her house was burned down, her life was threatened, everything was fueled. I'm going to the Attorney General's Office today. I'm going to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. To what time will such a discussion be with dissidents, with opposition?Oh, my God! They're burning houses today, and they want to burn both freedom of speech and democracy. Today, socialists are worried about the future. Look, yesterday, Gennady Moscal, Head of the National and Immigration Committee, invited the delegates of the Assembly of National Minorities, waiting for 10 percent of the delegates to be left in the Hall, and the rest of them went, and extended a call to the Attorney General's Office for the closure of the most authoritative national newspaper, "The Village News," as if it were a national nuisance. [[We are confident that this is according to the plan of the President's Administration.]] In fact, the newspaper’s collective of national hostility does not engage or ignite, and the usual discussion of the acute national problems of our lives seems to be fuelled by hostility. We understand that the Assembly’s appeal is being initiated from the outside. Task: To destroy the opposition press in Ukraine on the eve of presidential elections And they start with "The Village News," because it's the most honest, truest newspaper of the united opposition. And the united opposition is the entire Ukrainian people. Thus, the Qutsim regime seeks to shut the mouth of all the Ukrainian people. By the way, I want to inform you today that the fourth opposition is Frost, Yushchenko, Simonenko and Timoshenko signed a declaration of joint action today literally. And the first item is the holding of proportional elections in Ukraine and the implementation of reforms. Even an anti - Fascist committee, an anti - Fascist court, and now the Assembly of National Minorities, are being mobilized to prevent opposition today. Today, I would ask the opposition not to be disunited or provoked. Today at the site of the instructions to tear down the subscription on "The Village News," "The Comrades." In fact, Bankova wants to try again in 2000 to ban the legal newspaper. I'm speaking on behalf of the public, the readers, millions of readers, the Socialist Party of Ukraine to the entire Ukrainian people: we're going to protect the people's newspaper "The Village News" from the reaction regime. I'm asking the Committee on Freedom of Speech, the People's Deputies to consider the situation that has taken place around "The Village News." I ask all factions, parties, to support the "Silence News" group, and not to make a fuss over this national magazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u19	Thank you. The word from the faction of the Social Democratic Party has the National Deputy Proskuratov to prepare Yukhnovsky. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u20	Tamara Proskuratov, faction of SDPU. My presentation is aimed at analyzing the budget that we are offered for second reading. Our faction endorses and supports the idea of both the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister and the appeal of the committee of Nikolaynek to Leonid Makarovich, the leader of our faction, regarding the priority funding of the educational sector. During a meeting with the educational groups, during the exit meetings of the Committee on Education and Science, I find that the teacher approves the raise in wages, although this does not yet correspond to 57 articles of the Education Act. It approves that the State Bus Programme is funded for the first time, but there are still a number of outstanding problems in the budget process. The gap between the salary of a school technician and a young teacher minus two bracelets in favor of a technician. And only if you enter from January 1st a single tariff grid that is provided by Cabinet Order 740 of 19.05. In 2003 the ratio of official salaries will be maintained. In accordance with article 25, paragraph 1, of the Education Act of Ukraine, the rate of the teacher of the elementary classes is 18 hours, and to date it is paid at the rate of 20 teaching hours. The need to ensure that the above article is implemented is due to the fact that the hours of music, physical education, and foreign language are carried out by experts from other subjects. And from here, the pedagogical load is usually two thirds of the rate that affects their salary. It requires funding to modernise the material and technical base. Especially in physics, chemistry, biology, and vocational and technical schools. There children learn from tractors and presses that are no longer used anywhere. And I would like to see the tax-free financial-economic mechanism of the trades sector spread across the entire educational sector. And 76 copies, a month's pay for running the cabinet, is really funny. The problem of aid for a rural teacher, which is foreseen in the 57th article, remains acute. At least. I didn't want to compare a teacher to a disabled person who really needs help. As the wage rises, the problem itself will disappear. And there is also a difficult problem of providing textbooks that are catastrophicly lacking. This problem occurs year after year, and it gets worse. And that's why I think that this is a question that needs to be solved once -- that is, we need to provide textbooks, and then we need to just fill out the base. Our faction believes that only highly educated citizens can make the innovation of the Ukrainian economy. And I would like this position of the legislative, executive, highest branches of government on the priority of financing education to have a concrete effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're going to hear some strange news right now. You and I have established a temporary special commission for the future. Two respected academics, Yukhnovsky and Sitnik, asked for an opportunity to inform them of the work of the commission. Please, Igor Raphaelovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u22	Dear Chief, distinguished MPs! Ensuring democracy and a European standard of living for the entire people of Ukraine is the main task of the legislative, executive and judicial branches of power. Ukraine is now experiencing the consequences of the unjust and often criminal distribution of state property, the dishonesty of the administrative apparatus that has deeply entered all spheres of the functioning of the state. The permissiveness of bureaucracy, its impunity, and its promotion of the development of the shadow sector of the economy give rise to deep anxiety and social confusion. Under these circumstances, the Consolidation of the nation, especially its wealth - owned representatives, manages production, teaches, treats, creates science and art, resides in the public service, is essential for the political, economic, social order in Ukraine. Both Ukrainian presidents were unable to bring the state out of the crisis caused by the collapse of the Soviet Union. The presidents of the State did not realize that the recognition and belief of the state by their own peoples and peoples and governments around us is crucially dependent on the level of prosperity and democracy that will be achieved within the Ukrainian state. Their acceptance by the services, and then by their own calculations in internal politics, the loss of people's support gave them the desire to seek protection from the outside, either from Russia or from the United States. All of this is done on account of unnecessary advances in Ukraine’s economic, political sovereignty. An important place in the process of consolidating the Ukrainian people is the Supreme Council of Ukraine. How patriotic, qualified, and constructive the Supreme Council is, to a large extent, dependent on the development of positive initiatives in Ukrainian society. We Ukrainians, the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, must recognize our greatest responsibility to the people and to the world for the work carried out by the Supreme Council, especially the recent developments in Parliament. You have to realize that the main cause of the misery in Ukraine is the shadow sector of the economy that has emerged and thrives as a result of dishonest administration and prolonged neglect by the patriotic upbringing of the people, a deliberate denial of national dignity and self-discipline. Under these circumstances, the real solution is national understanding primarily in the Supreme Council. We urge the Ukrainians of the Supreme Council to understand each other. We urge us not to pay attention to instigating performances from which authorities do not. Dear Ukrainians, people's deputies, we love our state, we are committed to it by all beings, in the desire to build a prosperous democratic Ukraine between us there is no contradiction. We are deliberately harassed by the parasitic clans, we become hostages of petty hostility between individuals, and worse, by puppets in the politics of other nations. Ladies and gentlemen, we are the honor and mind of Ukraine. However, we are scattered across different factions, which are the source of many mistakes. Can we not find in ourselves the strength and courage to make a power capable of bringing the Supreme Council of Ukraine out of its total artificial division and creating a consistent respect for the unified legislative body of Ukraine? Each part of our positive being should work for this great purpose. There are critical and very responsible times in Ukraine. The history of past centuries and future generations of the Ukrainian people is looking at us. Let us gather for the happiness and glory of Ukraine! Head of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, 1980-85. Head of the National Council of Ukraine 1989-91, academic Yukhnovsky. Deputies! I'd like to show you some pictures that you're very interested in. My institute deals with water. You're all 80 percent water. I brought you pictures of the Japanese Institute for Water Research depending on how they relate to water. These are dried - up drops of water from which the photographs are taken. Here on the left is the water they say, "I'll kill you," or they try to kill you. This water is totally out of order, absolutely wrong. Here is the water, a real drop of water dried up with love, you see, a drop of that water gives you a brandy like a snowflake. Here's a drop of water from a key source. I mean, what do we do? Do not think that a mental field that acts from one to the other does not work on the water that is in our body. And that's why when you argue with each other, you destroy each other's water structure, which is in your bodies. So if you want to treat each other, if you want to be healthy and happy, be polite, be smart, have love for your neighbors and the environment, and see that you are healthy and healthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u23	Thank you, Igor Raphaelovich. Constantine Mercuryovich, thank you. Honorable colleagues, in accordance with article 8.3.3, in connection with their dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary request, have the floor of the national deputy Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u24	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. In one interview, the head of the Holding Foundation said, "The dogs are barking and the caravan is coming." That is, we can assume that the distribution of property will be done according to where it is directed, by directing it and by inspiring power. The Cabinet of Ministers is not lagging behind the Maintenance Fund. Thus, by decree 1144 of August 17, 2002, on measures related to the satisfaction of the public needs of the printed product, a precedent has been set for the legislative provision of money from the sale of public stock packages to the budget, as provided for by law, but in the management structure that, according to our legislation, can use these funds for its judgment. As you can see, your honor, this is about the holding company Ukrepapirprom. But most importantly, according to the Order of the Holding Fund, the number 1488 of 20 August 2003 issued for the execution of the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers will be conducted not by the State Property Fund but by the company itself. The competition has already been announced by the company. Imagine, colleagues, 30 percent of the equity package of the Kyiv paper combination, whose annual net profit is almost 12 million dollars, is sold for 6 million dollars, and all the major funds of this company are valued at only 19 million dollars, excluding the inflation index after 1995. And this index right now is 362 percent. So we think about where to get pensions, wages, budgets, and we sell things 362 percent cheaper. After this decree of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Order of the Maintenance Fund, we can wait for a whole series of similar arms from other holding companies, which today number 21. Those who are interested to see the outcome of this pilot project. On November 12, this year, a meeting of the Special Monitoring Commission discussed the issue of Ukrepapirprom and a decision was taken in accordance with the mandate of the Social Monitoring Commission. This decision invites the Holding Fund to cancel Order 1488 and to stop the competition. And the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will bring Decree 1444 into line with the current legislation. But as I have come to know, no one is going to implement this decision, which was officially sent to the special control commission. That is why, on the basis of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and the Powers of the Commission, I am requesting the Attorney-General's Office to ensure that Ukraine's laws are respected and correctly applied by the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with the Ukrainian laws on privatization of state property, on economic societies, on the State Budget, on the Cabinet of Ministers of August 17, 2002, number 1144, taking into account the conclusions of the Special Supervisory Commission. The other one. To the Ukrainian Security Service to verify the existence of corruption and abuse of office in the higher public authorities in the adoption of the decree and the order of the Maintenance Fund. Adam Ivanovich, please, and I make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u25	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna. I'd like the secretariat to form as a parliamentary request. Please refer to the Communist faction, the national representative of Cibenko has the word for replication.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u26	Thank you. The Communist faction, Cibenko. Dear fellow MPs! Dear voters! Here, a member of the "Our Ukraine" faction shed crocodile tears over the plight of the people of Ukraine and, among other things, accused the Communist faction of conspiring with the regime. Our answer to all of this is clear and concrete. First. Members of the faction point not to shed tears, but to the preparation by Communist MPs of a series of bills on social protection of the disadvantaged. This is also a question of prices and tariffs. It's also a question of the size of the pension, and so on, and any unbiased person has to admit it. Secondly, who, as opposed to our Ukrainians over the past 12 years, has led the prime minister, the ministers, in charge of individual district administrations, to this disgraceful situation? And so the people perpetuated the position of these political forces with the slogan "Thank you Movement for Disruption!".. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u27	The last name wasn't mentioned, so we'll be on lines. A word from the Agrarian Party faction is given to the National Deputy of Vaschuk. Please, Catherine Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u28	Dear fellow national MPs! On behalf of the faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine, I would like to address you, dear colleagues, and the Ministry of Finance, using the presence here of Fedor Alexiyovich Jaroshenko. In the changes to the Law on the Taxation of Natural Persons, there's this rule of "taxation of income from support farming," which is taxation, which is the bull that the uncle raised, the milk that appears to be from the cow, the potatoes or the vegetables that are grown in the docking area. There are even gardens, gardens, and areas of reference. I'd like to ask. How do the developers of this standard imagine that a few million people with dowry, dowry, fences can today be called into the tax to fill out declarations? [[up to 10 million]] How can you tax a loser who earns his job? How will it show that profit? How will we calculate the cost of working for the entire family to raise a bull in two years and get one thousand dollars to give it away? I think we should thank those people, bow down and pay for living in the village, growing all that and feeding the people. And that's a rule to rule out. If other pies are added to this area, that is another matter. But it's already a legal person. And if it's a docking area, I can't imagine how it could be today, what kind of morals to take off my uncle for the last time. What about cutting off his cattle, cutting out apples, or doing something else? That's why I'm addressing Feder Alexiyovich, we've found a lot of understanding with you in the formation of the budget. We feel that the Ministry of Finance is now returning to the agrarian sector. Excluding this shameful norm at the initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers from the tax on physical persons Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u29	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the exit of the National Deputy of the country of Savic Valentina Viktorovic from the European Election Group. A statement. I'm reporting my exit from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine in connection with differences in views on national issues. [[united]] National MP Volodymyr Nechiporuk. Dear colleagues, let's do this. Since another faction was mentioned in one faction’s statement, the faction accordingly took up the replica. If now "Our Ukraine" wants to respond with a replica, then they're going to touch that faction again and have to give it back. Come on, we did trade and we're done here. Well, please, Assadchev, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u30	Valerius Assadchev. I would like to remind my fellow Members that the faction "Our Ukraine" and its leader Victor Yushchenko, when he was Prime Minister, was the first and last, unfortunately the only national government in Ukraine to pay pensions, pay wages and raise the welfare of the people. You took it. You voted for his withdrawal. What's gotten better for a lot now? Are people getting better at living now? Do you see what kind of banditry exists today? Therefore, it is a sin for you to say what you said. God grant Yushchenko to return to Ukraine. This is the only salvation for the people of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u31	Dear colleagues! All the speeches, the statements, the announcements we heard with you. How is that unfair? I can't give, you've got ten parties in the "Ukrainian" union. Each of the ten will demand a word? Let's be serious. Asadchev from whom did he speak? Isn't Movement part of our Ukraine? Have you announced your exit? Jaroslav, please calm down. Today we are discussing issues of order. You have a list of the questions that are proposed for consideration. So please move on to their consideration. The reduced procedure is followed by question number 3503 of the draft law on the introduction of a moratorium on licensing and the introduction of commercial activities from the release and the holding of lottery tickets. First Deputy Finance Minister Feder Alexiyovich Jaroshenko will report. Please. Was it from you? Let's get out of here, then we'll be with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u32	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! You are being reviewed by the Ukrainian law on the introduction of a moratorium on the issuance of licences for the introduction of commercial activities from the release and the holding of lottery tickets. Why there was a need for a moratorium on the granting of licences for the conduct of commercial activities from the release and the holding of lottery tickets. Repeatedly, in this room and in other important meetings there was concern that the lottery business had become one of the most common types of activities where various tax avoidance schemes were widely applied. Instead of a stable source of budget replenishment by an unsupervised state, lottery activity is transformed into one of the lazinesses for the laundering of proceeds obtained by crime and causes an increase in the level of frustration and disillusionment of people in this way of earning income. Thus, the President of Ukraine, by his decree of September 10, 2002, decided to introduce a state monopoly on this type of activity. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that the introduction of the measure will increase the budget’s income from such activities. But there is a question of protection against the possible loss of private investment that can be directed into the lottery area. In order to prevent the State from inflicting material and moral damage on operators when introducing a state monopoly on the release and implementation of lottery tickets, a bill has been drafted and is being proposed for your consideration. It is anticipated that only those subjects who have already obtained such licences will be subject to the approval of the legislative act governing the introduction of the state monopoly on lottery productions, the release and the holding of lottery tickets. They will be monitored by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Please support the prescribed bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u33	Thank you. Please, is there a question? If you have any questions, please sign in. Please take five minutes. Let me explain. Please, National Deputy Nadrag. Prepared: Matthew Vladimir Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u34	Please state your opinion, your prognosis. Introducing this, taking a decision on this issue, what economic impact can we expect from what we will do?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u35	Thank you for your attention. An extremely interesting question, a forecast. We've calculated the economic effect. This is more than a hundred million dollars that can come into the budget if such a bill works.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u36	Please, National Deputy Solomon. Behind him is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u37	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear reporter, please tell me, and how is this activity regulated in the so-called world community, for example, in Europe, to which Ukraine so attempts to enter? Who, and how does it regulate the conduct of this activity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u38	Thank you. In different countries of the world, this type of activity is regulated differently. There are countries where the same activity is regulated by the Ministry of Finance of the country concerned, so different countries use different ways to regulate this activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u39	National Deputy Carmazin. After him is School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u40	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenka's Electoral Block, "Our Ukraine." Dear Feder Alexiyovich! Please tell me how to date the Ministry of Finance and the government that you represent today tolerates what, under the title "Ukraine National, I emphasize, Lottery" is actually covered by an offshore firm that is outside the state, no relation to the very word "Ukrainen" has, to the national one, nor does it actually have, a colossal amount of money. And one of the deputy ministers of finance made such a terrible cable deal, which I've already asked about repeatedly about cancelling, and it hasn't been canceled. It's not blocking the President's decree that this money go into the budget. What do you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u41	Thank you. The Ministry of Finance is constantly working on improving the business of lottery business in Ukraine. So you know that a lot of work has already been done on this subject, the working groups that have already been working on various draft laws on improvement and they are in Parliament. And it goes, you ask the question that this activity, it was really completely unregulated by legislative acts that wouldn't give you the right direction that you're talking about. So today, to talk about what the Ministry of Finance is going to do, it's not even possible to think about it, because it's our job to stop this kind of business and lottery business going through a clearly defined legislative field.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u42	Please, National Deputy School, follow him, Kostinuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear reporter, you know that the Supreme Council has adopted, in its first reading, bills on the state regulation of the release and the conduct of the lottery and money games, as well as on gambling in Ukraine, which, after the introduction of the state monopoly, make no sense. Explain, we understand that this bill is being protected here and it protects and lobbies the same interests of the largest operator of this IPL for its former “Sportlot”. How do you feel about previous decisions taken at least in the first reading of the Supreme Council? And this is where you come up with these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u44	It makes sense that the law adopted in the first reading is a logical continuation of improving the lottery procedure in Ukraine. And the bill in question, it clearly foresees, gives just enough reason to avoid obstacles in the field of lottery abuse, so the bill in question is going to be a much more substantial improvement in the business of lotteries in Ukraine. And the law, which is deeper and should also be worked out and adopted would be a logical continuation of this activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u45	Kostinuk, I can't see, there is, I'm sorry. Please, Kostinuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear reporter! I think you'll agree with the fact that the more you get a license from a certain type of activity, the more the shadow money goes into the clerk's pocket. You're launching a moratorium on licensing for economic activity. What will happen to the subject when the licence expires, that is, he also needs to put some additional funds in the pocket of officials. And do you think it is inappropriate for the Cabinet of Ministers to introduce a bill on the subject of all lottery activities to return to the state roof? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u47	Thank you. You have just made it clear how this issue will be settled because those rafflekeepers who are now operating in the lottery business, to protect them, this is exactly what the bill is about to do. So when their license expires, these operators have the right to continue to say so in the lottery business.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u48	Thank you, Feder Alexiovich, sit down, please. Let's finish the question. For a report from the Committee on Economic Policy and the Management of National Households, Property, and Investment, please contact Philip Philipovich Budzigan.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u49	The Economic Committee, when considering the bill, without knowing the opinion of the national deputy Kostinuk, took it into account in principle. The point is that the draft Law 3503 is designed to prevent the State from inflicting material and moral damage on the subject of the introduction of legislation that establishes a state monopoly on the issue and conduct of the lottery. The draft law is based on the idea of implementing the Presidential Decree on the introduction of a state monopoly on the issuance and conduct of lottery tickets and the protection of private investments that can be directed. lottery losses, as a result of the adoption of a legislative act regulating the introduction of a state monopoly for the release and conduct of the lottery. Thus, only those entrepreneurship entities that have already obtained such licenses are subject to the law’s approval, and they will be monitored by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine to comply with the licensing conditions for the implementation of commercial activities at the time of the release and execution of the lottery. Our committee on October 14th discussed the bill and suggested that the bill be adopted on the first reading as a basis. [[Protocol No.40]] The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, feels that the proposed project can be adopted on the basis of the comments made and the proposals made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u50	Thank you, Philip Philipovich. Have a seat, please. Four national deputies were enrolled in the presentation. We have an emergency procedure. I think 2 will speak for, 2 against. Please give the floor to the national deputy Solomonine. Get ready for Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u51	Dear colleagues! Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. We are discussing today a bill that is very clear and vividly reflecting what the bourgeois state has done with the people of Ukraine -- cheated, and is now trying to at least partially resolve this issue. Every Ukrainian uncle remembers how on the market at his own time, when so-called bourgeois publicity began to prevail, so-called "heads," and these "headheads" eventually crossed the lottery and all this lottery business, as it's called the lottery business, as it is. It's those "briefs" that are now under the protection of the state. And that's the law. The bill is designed to at least partially protect them. Why protect them? They have already made their bite, and they must be removed from the matter and returned to the state with full responsibility for what is happening in this area. Let's remember how it was in the old days that everyone is now cursing. It was Sports. Money. The profits that came from this sport took place in the development of the Olympic sports. And now and yesterday, especially here in this rostrum, my fellow national deputies begged: let's find 10 or 15 or 20 million bracelets to support the Olympic, the Paralympic kind of sport. Next. Do we have any more pressing problems? Yes. Here our respected patriots of Ukraine are constantly weeping from every Ukrainian teen that there is no one to protect the Ukrainian book. Let's create a lottery called "The Ukrainian Book." And all the profits that will be there, let them go to the development of the bookstore and so on. So I want to say this. The bill is absolutely necessary. Our faction supports it. We need to take state control of this whole thing. And if they care about those who seem to get rid of something and somehow get rid of it. Well, one of my colleagues here pointed out that the so-called Ukrainian national lottery is not Ukrainian national, it's an offshore firm, it's an offshore company, it's an envelope that was created under such a beautiful name. Let them find out what they're going to lose in our country. The bill in the first reading should be supported. Take control of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u52	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Rudkowski, to prepare Carmazin. Then please, National Deputy Carmazin, prepare for the School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u53	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, today's law is a powerful example of how a late government responds to situations or reacts completely inadequately. Why? Because the question is to introduce a moratorium on licensing for the production and production of lottery tickets. And the President’s decree was issued in the fall of 2002. Thus, the government did not comply with the President's decree and, in fact, the President's decree stopped. Let's see if the President had the right to issue this decree and whether it was directed to the benefit of the state. I am convinced that the decree, although not entirely constitutional in form, was entirely unconstitutional, but purposed well. Why? I asked the question today: What is going on? That an enterprise founded by a natural person, William Francis Flynn, who lives in Ocean Ridge Drive Fernandin Florida, USA, owned the Ukrainian National Lottery Company. And this isn't a disgrace to Minfin? And the deputy minister's still working. His name is so weird. They are then transferred to property when the noise rises, the legal person behind the legislation of the Netherlands. The owners of National Lottery Holdings, too, et cetera. And then there's money running over. And then you wonder why we're blacklisted in Fatfa? But because there's money laundering going on. Or else, Bingo Boom Lot. "Bingo Boom Loto" Deputy Minister Jaremenko informs me that the People's Deputy has repeatedly informed the Ministry of Finance about the wrong conduct of the last Bingo lottery. Do you see which one? We're reporting. Three reports are illegal. And people have been calling millions of dollars out of the country and they keep coming out. I write to everyone, including the Attorney General. Move a criminal case against everyone, including the officials of the Ministry of Finance, who contributed. Against the taxpayers who contributed. What's wrong? Nothing's wrong. Perhaps with the arrival of Attorney General Vasiliev, the situation will change. So, Your Honor, the question of introducing a moratorium is just a half question. We need to ask questions about a state monopoly, not just a moratorium. Because the moratorium today will allow what? He will allow the Ukrainian National, the Bingham to continue his activities uncontrollablely in an uncompetitive environment. Yes or no? Yes, so in order to get the money back to the State Budget, you have to adopt another law -- about the introduction of a state monopoly for the holding of state lotteries. It's the same thing that went on to produce vodka, cigarettes and so on, because it's the state budget, it's hundreds of millions of dollars. If you don't know, Mr. Janukovic, where to take them, I'll tell you, they're under their feet and they're stealing from your officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u54	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy of the school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u55	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. I, on behalf of the faction, would like to point out personally that this bill is not just a pushover, but a pushover to analyze why it needs a deflection? First of all, we need to figure out what "relaying a moratorium" is? We often include words in Ukrainian that may not be understood by everyone, especially those who listen to bills in the edge of the ear. The moratorium is to stop the licensing of everyone except those to whom they are now issued. What, then, is this law to be called, but not Lobby? He lobbies the interests of all those who now have the right to gamble, including lottery tickets. Why did such a bill arise? From this rostrum, the representative of Kabmin gave no justification. He reasoned on why the bill had been passed. And motivation is simple to protect the interests of the main lottery operators in the market. That's it. I don't think there's any other ground here. Next. It's said that the project lobbies the interests of the largest operator, the closed-circuit stock company, created on the basis of the privatized assets of the Alliance Sportlot. And that is the objective of the President's decree. And by the way, what they say is the main point of this bill, which is being passed by Kabmin. There's a President's decree on some arrangements for the regulation of lottery activity. And if the President secretly tells us that we need to leave all the major players in the market, then the bill clearly regulates that those who are in the market should not be allowed to work. Well, let's imagine something like this in the car industry, in the grain traders, let's limit it to one or two. We will immediately understand whose interests the bill advocates. Next. And this presidential decree contains unrealistic and unprofessional requirements for the licensees of the lottery. License conditions are required for only one purpose: to cancel the revised licenses of other state lotteries operators by 2013. Probably shouldn't be expected in November-December to do organizational checks on operators to meet unrealistic licensing conditions. Should I Expect Checks? I have to. You see, the representative of Kabminu does not deny this clear central factor in the introduction of this bill. I've already asked the question that the Supreme Council started on the first reading of draft legislation on government regulation of the production and conduct of lottery, monetary games, where the advantage is given, i.e. the monopoly on state enterprises. And that's where it all comes in. Clearly, there's a regulation here that's convenient to the state. As for Kabmin, it is surprising that he offers an unfavourable, lobbyist law that benefits individuals. I want to hope that these individuals are not employees of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the question is closed. We'll be setting up tomorrow for his acceptance. Dear colleagues, I made a mistake, led me astray by a national deputy, Assadchev, who is not a member of the Movement, but spoke on behalf of the Movement, so with your permission, one minute of Kostinyuk. Please, uh, Kenzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u57	Jaroslav Kenzior. Dear fellow MPs, I have a need to respond to the voice of my colleague Zibenk, who said, "Thank you, Movement for Disengagement." I'm a forgetful cybenka, and I want to remind all the communists to make a note of who the first president of Ukraine was? All-Ukrainian party Krawczuk. The second president and the third was Leonid Kuchma, a local partner of the Southern Army. And to Mr. Zybenko, I would like to ask him again to analyze where the entire party nomenclature of circuits, rajkoms, mischeads went, where did it go? She's running the state today! So thanks to the Communist Party for providing such personnel and your attachment to this bandit regime was demonstrated yesterday. As they say, the sew came out of the bag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, I asked you not to mention names. Since it is mentioned, I am forced to give my word to Zybenko. And that's where we end up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. You know, I was in the seat of the deputy who spoke last, and I was proud to quote the folk words. Thus they appreciated the merits of his political power. This is the first time. And second. I'd like to say something here, dear colleagues. A little earlier thesis was made on the national government of Viktor Andrievich Yushchenka. So I'd like to disappoint some of the faction's representatives. Dearly beloved, this national government has, for the first time in the recent history of Ukraine, introduced a process of halting the budget of a series of social laws. This is the achievement of Victor Andriovich Yushchenka. And a second achievement on pensions. Dearly beloved, the government of Yashchenka has nothing to do with solving the problem of paying off pension debts. I'm explaining. The problem was solved by additional congregations, which were introduced first by the decree of the President and then by the law of the Supreme Council. Moreover, Victor Andrievich Yushchenko is the head of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u60	Yes, there is question number 3513, your honors, today is not the day of the replica, but the day of the debate. There is a question of registration number 3513, a draft law amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices to compensate for the loss of income of residential enterprises. Reported to the Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities, Grigory Mikhailovich Semchev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill, which is in the Supreme Council on the approval of a state-wide housing reform programme for 2004-2010. One of the basic principles of reform is the financial stability of the sector. This will allow you to get out of the bankruptcy zone where housing businesses are now located. This will make the industry attractive in terms of borrowing investments, including private equity, so it will finally be possible to make technical restocking of the industry aimed at improving the quality of residential services. On the basis of the bill, as is known, the problem of the damage to Ukrainian housing and utilities by the second half of 1998 was resolved by the existence of a system of state subsidies for housing and utility services, which was primarily directed towards the direct coverage of the costs of the producers of these services. For example, housing and utility financial assistance from Ukraine’s State Budget in 1994 amounted to about 8 percent of all budget expenditures. Since July 1998, subsidies to cover the difference between actual costs of housing services and tariffs have no longer been reimbursed. With the constant rise in energy prices, the lack of a correction mechanism for housing and utilities tariffs, as well as the increase in the cost of materials and the minimum wage, the cost of services is steadily increasing, the level of self-sustainment is declining, which makes the industry more profitable. So since 1998, housing and utility companies have been in a loss zone. At present, it is a practice where businesses do not have the necessary circulation costs to maintain the proper technical status of utilities, buildings, and equipment. As a result, drinking costs and unproductive losses of material energy resources are increasing, resulting in lower levels and quality of services that cause well - founded public dissatisfaction and, accordingly, a decrease in the volume of payments. It is estimated that only in 2002 housing and utility companies suffered losses of about 800 million dollars. During 9 months of the current year, this sum is 957,7 million dollars. One of the factors that has led to this complex financial situation for residential and utility enterprises is the inadequacy of tariffs for the normal cost of these enterprises. As evidenced by the monitoring carried out by Mineconomy, in 9 months 2003, the rate of reimbursement of population tariffs is: For heat services, between 50 and 92 percent, depending on the region; For water services, from 23 to 95 percent. 100 percent in Kiev and Kiev alone. For water services, between 27 and 98 percent; to keep buildings with elevators from 45 to 96 percent. Only in the Volinsky, Ravensky, Ternopil regions 100 percent. It is estimated that for 9 months of the current year, all types of residential services in most regions tend to lower the cost of cost compensation for their production, with tariffs for industrial consumers several times higher than those for the population. Therefore, a balanced price policy in the process of reforming housing and utilities will ensure social protection for consumers, which is the non-admissibility of central executive authorities, local self-government authorities and their authorized organisations to include unwarranted costs in tariffs related to the monopolistic status of enterprises in the sector, the deterioration of the quality of services provided by regulations and contracts for technical services, the granting of benefits, the unwarranted level of tariffs and. the normal consumption of residential services. The setting of tariffs can be seen as one of the essential components of effective utilities. At present, article 23 of the Ukrainian Enterprise Act regulates the procedure for compensation for the loss of income from residential and utility enterprises. Since January 1, the Code of Masters of Ukraine has been in force, and the Law on Businesses has ceased to apply. Article 191 of paragraph 6 of the Master Code establishes that executive authorities and local authorities are obliged to grant grants to these entities in accordance with the law when setting fixed prices. This article has a framework. The adoption of this bill, as we are talking about, will allow the above article of the Ukrainian Code of Masters to be fully implemented. The way in which income loss is compensated for by residential-communal enterprises, if tariffs are approved for services to the population below the regulatory costs for their production, is pursued by the following objectives. Increasing the responsibility of the authorities that approve housing and utility tariffs for the population for the activities of residential and utility enterprises, validating tariffs only in the event of economic justification, stabilizing the financial situation of the residential and utility enterprises. In some regions this function is already being implemented. This calls for the adoption of an appropriate legislative act. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u62	Thank you. Grigory Mikhailovich, please sit down. We've got a brief procedure, so give me three minutes, please log in. The questions are pretty sharp, I understand. Let's take three minutes, please, on the board. We probably don't have to do much more than that. Please, National Deputy Gournik, follow him, Calinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u63	Mr. Chairman, first of all, I would like to make a note that there is no text of the bill, and not for the first time in our MP's electronics. And you have to pay attention to that detail. And the question to Gregory Mikhailovich is this. Of course, there are different situations in different regions. And indeed, this law increases the responsibility of both public authorities and local governments for the reality of tariffs. But is he sufficient? Because, well, there's a pay-out between tariffs and the Budget Code, some subsidy areas or cities will simply not have the right financial resources in the form of grants. So the question is, shouldn't there be any extension in the Budget Code, in the relevant budget documents of your law?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u64	That's the right question. In fact, there is a problem in those cities, in those areas of subsidies. And we're going in stages. First of all, most of us worked on this bill with the heads of organs, primarily local self-government. Most of them agree, and they say we'll find that kind of money, let's just go to the bill. With regard to donor, depressed regions, this should be provided with appropriate subsidies, and if necessary we will also prepare for changes in the budget code. There is a question. Indeed, it is. But once again, honourable deputies, please. The financial stability of the sector is a complex of issues that we're dealing with in the state programme that you have. This is just one direction that should have an impact on the financial stability of the sector. There, however, the whole mechanism is set out and needs further development in a number of other legislation and regulations that should have an impact on the financial stability of the sector in a comprehensive manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u65	Please, Kalinczuk, follow him Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u66	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Gregory Mikhailovich, if I may continue my question before you have answered it. The explanatory note to this bill does not include any proposals for sources of expenditure to compensate for the loss of income from residential-communal enterprises. And I'm sure that if prices are approved, housing-communal tariffs, no one will think less of these costs. Because it takes extra money. So isn't it going to be that we have much more tariffs than we're paying right now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u67	Thank you for asking. First of all, we must, and you know this very well today under the Law on Local Self-Government, executive committees, local self-government bodies are responsible by law for providing the necessary quantity and quality, once and for all. Second, by law they are responsible for the effective use of the property of the territorial community, i.e. the efficient operation of enterprises of the territorial community. This law, I take it, as far as sources of funding are concerned, is not the norm of this law. We're just saying, if you're setting tariffs below the cost, there should be compensation from the budget of that local authority that sets the tariffs. As far as this is concerned, we will gradually study the situation in one region or another and make appropriate suggestions. I say again, it's done in a number of regions. That is why today he needs a legislative arrangement in accordance with the Code of Lords, by the way. That's why I don't see a big problem here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u68	Please, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u69	I apologize that setting tariffs, I say again, we are not setting a target in the tariff reform system. And that's not what reform is all about. We say that tariffs should be transparent, be economically sound, and mainly because of the legislative base of the service-providing enterprise should not include those costs that are not related to the production of services for the population. So the whole set of questions that settles all these questions after you've adopted the program that you have. We understand this situation clearly, believe me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u70	Please, Puzakov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u71	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. As I will now speak on this issue from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, I request the floor to Radion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u72	Please turn on the Rodion microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u73	Commie faction, Rodionov. I'm here. I have this question: well, this law has arisen because most people cannot pay in accordance with tariffs. The current policy of raising the income of the population is that, in the near future, half a hundred years will not increase to self-payment for tariffs. And the question is, does this mean that you're proposing a grant or a grant, so to speak, forever?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u74	Well, first of all, I can't say it's forever. The point is that housing companies, if we want to have quality services, and if we're going to have a whole set of technical refuelling measures, we have to have the costs. Here, I think, is clear to everyone. And there can be no such situation as there is today that businesses, by providing services, do not compensate for the cost they have, the damage they have. So this is one of the steps that we say there should be reparation. The company provides a service, it has to reimburse its expenses. The same thing we talk about with bread about this matter. And the government makes the right decisions, including subsidies for not raising the price of bread. That's why we don't say, I'm once again, honourable deputies, this law does not provide for an increase in tariffs, it provides for compensation for differences in tariffs by local authorities setting tariffs. And let's face it, I used to work in local self-government, and any measure will make it more prudent when the tariffs, the new tariffs, are presented for approval. He'll take a deeper look at what they put into those tariffs, because he'll understand that he'll have to be compensated from the budget. And on the other hand, he has to think about how to fill in the budget so that businesses work properly. So I think that this bill is just going to be the basis, I say again, for improving the financial situation of businesses in the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u75	Thank you, Gregory Mikhailovich. Please sit down. The word for the report has the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment, Anatoly Musiovich Hirschfeld, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! The Committee on the Management of Peoples, Property and Investments, at its meeting on 14.10. this year, considered the draft law amending article 9 on cyno-creation introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. The need for this law is fully understood. To date, there are no legal acts in the country that determine the manner of compensation and costs if tariffs are adopted below their cost or below the legally justified costs for this type of service. However, it must be said that the Committee's discussion had sparked a heated debate, and the views of the deputies on individual points had been divided. In general, the Committee decided to recommend that Bill No. 3513 be considered on first reading and adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u77	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. I'd like to say, short-term, two-in-a-row, two-in-con. The word is given to the national MP Puzakov. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u78	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. Of course, only the ninth section of this law is spoken of today, though relevant, for the common people today cannot survive. Despite the serious crisis facing the two strategic sectors of the Ukrainian economy: fuel and energy and agrarian, the Government has persistently silenced and channelled the main information flow so that all people's efforts are aimed at protecting Ukrainian borders from Russia. But people are not attracted to this propaganda, for the people still need bread and warmth. Therefore, when it comes to paying for housing and utility services and going to the store, he immediately forgets the threat of losing part of the black crayfish from the ostrich floating in the Azoo-Kerchen area. And not every year, but every day it gets harder and harder. More than 80 per cent of the population in Ukraine lacks wages or pensions even for food. The tariffs on housing and utility services for many already today are the impressions and the authorities are going to fight forced non-payments more strongly. It's just a pity the worker won't say a word. He has no right to fight for his life. He's been denied that right. Today all people have bread on their mouths. You don't get it for free, and prices definitely go up. In just six months, prices have been raised four times in the Kirovograd region. From 90 spears, 70 spears have grown to 1 bracelet. And the eligible bill is 270 grams, which is 25 copies per bracelet. The price of the bar also became 1 bracelet 25 copies. The situation is getting complicated. Budgets could and could be sufficient to contain the price situation. But the authorities in the city in the media have stated that they simply cannot keep the prices of bread at the same level because food wheat prices are steadily rising. And entrepreneurs started taking bread outside the city to areas where bread was more expensive. Regrettably, Kabmin is also silent about this, promising to protect the most impoverished by baking so-called social bread as always. In short, bread is almost cut. At the same time, the rich will be able to buy normal bread prices at which they will significantly increase. In this case, officials explain that the overall profitability of bread factories will be positive, commercial banks will not be affected, and that they are now profiting from the grain crisis. However, it was clear that this year's crop was the lowest crop in 2003 in all post-war years. Only 20.5 million tons of grains were collected and 38.8 million tons were collected in 2002. In the current crisis, we, the Communist people's deputies, are strongly asking the President and the Government to do their utmost. To protect food security, to preserve the Ukrainian people and the State. Prices must be taken seriously and we Communists protected and protected the disadvantaged people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u79	The word is given to the national deputy of Solomon, to prepare Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u80	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! We are now with you as you see the government of capitalist ministers trying to shift the guilt from their "diseased head" to the healthy head of the disadvantaged people of Ukraine. What is now happening with bread and bread prices was spoken of by my colleague by faction, a beautiful man from the Kirov town of Volodymyr Puzakov. And we're talking about housing-communal tariffs right now. I have, where I live in the Teremka-1 microregion in Kiev, a man from the Mooring Street came to me, 2 and brought me a letter from the Justice Department with threats that if she doesn't pay off the debt that she owed to her for not paying housing services, and this debt is already 4,000 bracelets, she'll be evicted from her home. A man who has worked his entire life and has done all he can for his country can't see now whether it's his country or not? I went to the Ministry of Justice, I went to the district government, and this person and I, along with her, as the national deputy got the message: we need to restructure the debt and about every month pay even what even for his pathetic pension this sick person is in the hospital right now, maybe the last breath, at the last breath she has to pay for many years. What it is, not the abuse of those people who have done everything in their lives in order for the state to take place. And what we have in the next year's budget. It is proposed by the government of capitalist ministers to reduce the minimum wage from 237 to 205, which pensions are and they make up one third of the minimum wage, clearly, and all of this is aimed at putting a person, especially a pensioner and a veteran disabled person in a debased position. Kneel before this bourgeois state and demand what aid, compensation, subsidies. The shame is absolute. I'm talking to people, and I'm saying that we have to do everything we can to get all the government officials to look for money, not for the disadvantaged people, but for those providers who are trying to do business on this issue. Therefore, our faction cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u81	Yes, National Deputy Konovaluk, I can't see. Then, please, the word has the national deputy Suhi, to prepare Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u82	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Dear National Deputies! Bill number 3513 was not an accident. In my opinion, the government was designated prime minister. And the fact that our residential-communal farming is on the verge of collapse and complete collapse is seen with an unarmed eye enough to enter any residential building in the sleeping areas not only and not necessarily Kiev, but other district centers, enough to look at those gloomy barracks in the hometown of Zaporozhye, in which people have, like, temporarily 70 years of age, have been resilient in order to understand that the situation is extremely dangerous, and just to get away from it or to engage in politics here on this matter inappropriately. One more. By the way, the MPs or the cabmins of our houses, despite their entire exterior moose, have gone far from the future threat to the destruction of the system of both water supply and sewerage, because it's all going through in general and on the same street. Housing and utilities need changes, that's what we have to say today. These changes should take into account the interests, first and foremost, of the users of services, as well as the institutions that provide them. [[I agree with my fellow deputies.]] And one more thing. The responsibility of local authorities is essential. You know, it's very often that they try to turn their ignorance into the head of central authority, and they represent it in a way that these services, these tariffs are defined by someone, and they're good there. I believe that the adoption of the bill of amendments proposed in Bill 3513 will give rise to positive changes in housing or at least give hope for positive changes. But the people's honourable deputies, all of these measures, they're fixing holes. Sooner or later, all branches of government will face a serious problem of the collapse of housing and utilities across the country, with all the negative social and economic consequences. So I suggest, first, that we step up and speed up the work on the new edition of the Ukrainian Housing Code. The other one. Take careful control of the relevant committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the reform and development of housing and utilities for 2001-2005 and for the period up to 2010. Endorsed by Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine 14.02 The year 2002 was one of Dear people's deputies, I'll be frank, delay, further delay in reforming housing and utilities is unacceptable. It will have negative social and economic consequences. And I would like our Committee on Housing and Utilities to be more persistent and more thoughtful in the economic justification of the tariffs, which today, unfortunately, raises great objections and doubts. I think Bill 3513 needs to be taken as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u83	Thank you. The word has the national deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u84	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear friends, the issue of utility payments is probably one of the sickest topics that can't help but worry our constituents and all of us. But we can come to a single conclusion. I think everyone will agree to that today. Not once since we've raised utility payments, how many times have we not taken this step, we haven't solved the problem of housing and utilities, no matter how much we talk about it, no matter how much we convince each other. We have repeatedly talked about the need to understand the system itself. Why do we now translate all the problems that arise in the market that arise in the housing and utility system today into the last unit, into the consumer, into the pensioner, into the sad grandma and grandpa who have not been added to the pension, why should it bring all these problems to bear? Today, we have decided by this bill to change the system a little bit: we are translating all this into local budgets, again, without giving them absolutely any source of funding and how they will deal with this problem. Tell me how the local budgets are going to be different from the same retirement grandmother that they didn't give you either, provided that they still have the exceptions that we've strangled them with today, and they don't know how to get out of this situation. We need to get back to the problem in the end. Let's see what's going on in housing and utilities, how the pricing mechanism is going on. Why do we have to pay for unrequited services, for running water on the streets, why do we have to pay for boilers that work for almost 50 percent? How are we going to build a boiler room economy, provided they produce 20 percent if they're loaded by 20 percent? Because that's where the problem is, and that's where it needs to be solved and addressed. And today we have several examples and several mechanisms when we went to grants. We are successfully subsidizing the coal industry today. Well, what did we do to solve any of this? Have we removed the issues that exist today? No, we haven't taken them off at all. Today, the same model can be seen as the first step towards addressing this issue. The next step is that an integrated housing and utility reform programme is indeed needed. We need to take this matter seriously, we need to seriously develop the programme, assert it and move forward. When we tried to amend the ninth article in order for the Supreme Council to push, on the one hand, the price management mechanism, then we were not given a veto by the Constitutional Court, and we could not, so to speak, push housing and utilities. But today, I think you should realize that there is no other way to deal with your own problems. And the fact that taking these problems out of both grandparents and local budgets is a half-measure that will still lead to a deadlock. We need to move forward and engage in community reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u85	Thank you. Please, if you don't mind, if you don't mind, after a minute from here, I'll hope we've got three national deputies on board to complete the list. Please, Hinzburg. Get ready for Carmazine. Just a minute from here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u86	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ginsburg, the Communist faction. I am considering this subject for myself, so I understand that the creation of this draft law that we are considering today has not come about by chance. Because we understand that there is a major problem in the State today is the high tariffs on utilities at such low wages, the quality of services provided and its system that does so. That is to say, this law is understood in this case, if local authorities wish to lower prices for their city residents, they are obliged under this law to compensate those organizations that provide heat or other services from the local budget. But once again, the question arises, for example, one budget, which is grantable in the city, the other one is not grantable. It happens when, if you don't have a grant budget, that's all you're going to have to do is make up for your budget, and you're going to make up for the grant village from the State Budget. Here is the question for me: would it not be easier to make normal tariffs for all cities of Ukraine the same and to make them from the State budget? It's just a problem. But I would like to take this opportunity to say that today's controversy that arises in the Hall leads to one thought: we have a clear example where in the Soviet State, in Soviet Ukraine, the tariffs on utilities were very low, and the State was ensuring good quality. Thus, this example is and can be returned to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u87	Please, from the seat of National Deputy Carmazin, behind him Nikolaynko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u88	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Country, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! What's going on, I want our Ukrainian people to know. There's a very good idea, by the way, which the chairman of the committee is now talking about, the general idea is very good, and it's also correctly defined by science and expertise. But without setting up a test mechanism to implement this idea, it will only deepen the crisis. Therefore, the law itself will have to be redrafted and rereaded. Now, just so you know. There was a town council in Odessa yesterday, a town council meeting, which Odesvodokal paid for one bracelet, a profit enterprise for one bracelet for 49 years in a commercial lease. Imagine what's going on, and then we're going to say, let's not control prices! But this is a threat to Ukraine's national security! I just called the D.A.'s office, I think. I think it's a criminal offense. I demand a criminal case against this fact and to protect the Odessa. I've been talking to you about what's going on in Odessa. Nothing's been done yet! Again, using your presence: Look, open your eyes! Look at the 49-year Odessocanal for one bracelet! A profitable enterprise! What will people then drink?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u89	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u91	Please, Nikolainka, follow him, and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u92	Nikolainka, a socialist faction of Ukraine, Hersonian. I am convinced today that water next to bread is the foundation of the life of our nation and our people. I have this situation in my district today -- dozens of villages with outbreaks of infectious diseases, such as yolks and so forth. In the village of Peace alone, more than a hundred people have fallen ill. Why? Because there is no water. Since it is not in the south of Ukraine at all, there is no debut under the ground. And also when we put 30 to 40 kips per kilowatt of electricity, the school pays, or, let's say, the village council, people in general run out of water. Deputies from the south of Ukraine from various factions, we've addressed this problem, we've made proposals to spend electricity on drinking water, at least in rural areas, in hard-earned villages, particularly in southern Ukraine. This is Herson, Odessa, Crimea and so on, Santa Claus, Zaporozhye. This takes about a hundred million dollars. Let's do it and then this law will work. I'd like Grigory Mikhailovich to support me. And this is in the budget, the proposal, let's support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u93	Thank you. Please, dear. Nigger. All right, good fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u94	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I think we really need to put pricing in order in the public sector. But I think you need to focus a little bit on other things. To date, I am also addressing the State Committee on Housing and Utilities and the General Committee of our Supreme Council, distinguished colleagues, probably should start with pricing on our tariffs. Because today, by paying just huge amounts for public tariffs, we don't actually get these services with you. And people ask, why does it pay for what it didn't get, in the form of a lack of heat, water, light and everything else? Therefore, I am deeply convinced that actions like this today will not change this position, nor will this policy. I am therefore deeply convinced that pricing must be addressed primarily on tariffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u95	Please, Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, perhaps the idea itself is right and can be supported at the level of the idea, and maybe it's a step in the right direction, even though it's a half-step, because it's a half-way, it's a palate. And a complex solution cannot be avoided. And a complex solution is the first. The tariff problem, the price. The other one. Overcoming the indigestion. And the third. Housing-communal reform. I want to focus on the last one. Without housing reform, these issues that we are discussing today cannot be resolved. So let's think about how soon we're going to have radical systemic reform of the housing and utility sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u97	Thank you, fellow believers. Question completed. Break to 12:30 is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We'll continue our sessions. It's like no one is blocking today, not ignoring the work of the Supreme Council, but working with no one. We continue to work, we listen to the question, registration number 3286 and 3030 are two draft laws amending the Ukrainian Business Act in Ukraine. [[on the management of state-owned enterprises]] I reiterate two bills: one from the Cabinet of Ministers and one from the National MP. The Law of the Cabinet of Ministers reports to the Deputy Minister of Economics and European Integration, Romanyuk Sergey Andriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u99	Dear National Deputies! The draft Act on Amendments to the Business Act of Ukraine was introduced to the Supreme Council in March of this year and was designed to improve the legal regulation of individual issues of the activities of state-owned enterprises, including criminal enterprises. In particular, profit use, financial planning at all state-owned enterprises, including executions. And the legislative establishment of monitoring the implementation of their financial plans. The project proposes to amend two articles 18 and 20 of the Business in Ukraine Act. The addition of articles 18 on income, income of an enterprise to the rule that state-owned enterprises make deductions from net income to the State budget of Ukraine every year, is a mandatory rule for the recalculation of part of the net income of these enterprises into the budget and creates conditions for the realization of the rights of the State as owner. Recalculation of part of the revenue to the State budget should also be done by the casinos. In this context, in order to establish the only approaches to financial planning and analysis of financial and economic activities, it is proposed to exclude from article 20 of the Business Act in Ukraine the norm under which fines do not constitute financial plans. The project is also proposed to include a rule that provides not only for the setting up of financial plans but also for the monitoring of their implementation. With the conclusion of the Supreme Council Scientific and Expert Office and the decision of the Supreme Council Committee on Economic Policy, the Cabinet of Ministers fully agrees, please support the position contained in the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u100	Thank you, sit down, please. The bill, the shorter procedure, bill number 3030, is reported by the author of the bill, Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u101	Dear National Deputies! I ask only one clarification in connection with the order of the day given to you. My bill refers to changes to the Code of Masters. It's a previous version, predicting changes to the enterprise law. But since this law is not in force in connection with the adoption of the Code of Masters, as of 1 January of the following year the Code of Masters will enter into force, the new draft of the Code of Masters will provide for changes to the Code of Masters. But in fact, it solves the same problems as the previous draft law. What are we talking about? Today there is no de facto state property in Ukraine. State property is only de jure. The point is that in terms of ownership, the owner does not perform the key functions of his property. The state does not poison its property as its owner. The state does not determine the direction of the use of income as private owners do, and the state does not manage its property very often. These are serious gaps that lead to what I can call a number: 9 months this year, from government property to the state budget, everything came. A little over 500 million dollars. And this existing situation leads to abuse and an phenomenon called profit privatization. It's state property, and it's non-state ownership. In this regard, the draft law provides for a solution to three fundamental questions. First. The State is under an obligation to approve the financial plans of state enterprises. In other words, it's about where the funds received from government property are going to be determined by the owner. The other one. In addition to standard taxes, the state receives income from property. But this is not a standard nor nor can it be a standard norm, such as other solutions. Let's say 15 percent. The point is that this rule will come out of every financial plan. I mean, in the financial terms of the enterprise, the state will determine the amount that goes into the budget. In one case, there may not be any counting. For example, the state believes that all the funds are needed for modernization or reconstruction. Otherwise it could be. But it's not a standard norm. But in any case, the state controls the direction of use of funds. And the third principle is the rule of law that prohibits the transfer of government-owned shares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u102	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Short procedure: 2 in, 2 in. 18 members of the national team took part in the performance. Who's from the committee? Demyochin, please. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Agriculture. properties and investments.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u103	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee, at its meeting on 4 November, considered together 2 bills: one introduced by People's MP Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlović is number 3030 and 3286 introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Committee invites the Supreme Council to adopt both bills as a basis. Should they be adopted as a basis, the Committee would finalize them and submit them with a single bill. This position is agreed with both the Cabinet of Ministers and the author of the bill. We ask for the support of the Committee in this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u104	Thank you. Well, they don't ask questions, come on. Well, what I'm saying is, questions when a reduced procedure is not allowed. Come on, I'll give you a line at the end, or you can figure it out now, and then you'll hear what you're saying. Wait, please. Karmazin, get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u105	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I have enjoyed the position that the committee has now taken. I have great respect for Mr. Demyokin, he's a man of knowledge. And I understand that he wasn't expressing his point of view right now, he was saying the point of view of the committee. And it's a very difficult mission to express the committee's point of view when you disagree with it internally. But it's the kind of load he was wearing today. In fact, I want to say that the government is helping today, both this government and the previous government have contributed to an inefficient economy because in fact the state has not managed its property, because enterprises have been distributed to different political powers. Take the GOK in Jaroslavsky today, take some metal factories from some other people today, and you'll see where your majority will go. It's going to fall apart. This is the condition of the majority: the management of the property of the state. That's all you've got today is 500 million dollars. Excuse me, I can count on my fingers if I have to, the Prime Minister or the President, or anyone. Where is all this? Why didn't you let Yashchenk into the Donetsk region? Because you are already preparing to close the Marches today, which no one will ever open again. What did Renat Ahmethov do with Yanukovich? Janukovic was at the time sitting in Kovela, another city. And at that time, Marches were composed, including serious generations of ours, which were our predecessors. Therefore, dear friends, we cannot say that both the bill and the bill are acceptable. The Pinzenic bill needs to be adopted, but it needs to be clearly understood that changes should be made to the Code of Masters. Because the whole point of making changes to this law will be lost when it loses the law itself. And the laws in force will end on January 1, 2004. Where, then, are you making changes, distinguished officials? Can't you see that? Have you not seen this on the committee, Mr. Demjochin, and your committee has not seen it? Perhaps they saw that the law would fail. What are we doing for a few months, making changes for two months? To tell you that we did something? I'm saying there's a few billion money there today. Look, look, the Black Sea Shipping, the ships that had been disembarked were under the secret order of Cabinet of Ministers number 480. Who'd S.T.D. pay today? I'm going to the Budget Committee, I'm going to the Industrial Affairs Committee, look, listen to who the money went to. Not one penny left. And you've just sold fifty ships. I'm saying that today, under the English roof, you're doing a 200-500 million dollar wash-out. Because of the track, I say. Profit there should be. And so for every company. At least take the Goks, at least take the others. That is why this law, proposed by Pinzenik, needs to be adopted, but at the same time the committee needs to make changes to the Code of Masters.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u106	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u107	We have to approach it in a complex way. Adam Ivanovich! This is an important question! Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u108	I understand the important question, I see your excitement. Please, National MP Puzakov, prepare for Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u109	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština In accordance with the article of the First Ukrainian Business Act, a state-owned enterprise is an enterprise based on state ownership, i.e. the financial and economic activity of a state-owned enterprise regulates and controls in practice an authorized executive body. In today’s edition of article 18 of the above - mentioned law, which explains the direction of using the profits of enterprises of various forms of property, does not regulate the use of income by state enterprises. This rule is not clearly stated, and therefore the state has no clear and specific influence on state enterprises. Therefore, the addition to article 18 and article 20 of the Ukrainian Act on Businesses in Ukraine is completely logical and legal. [[on the order and standards for the accounting of the profits of state enterprises and the construction, implementation of the annual plans of the listed enterprises]] The bill's proposed standard is the basis for a planned management of state-owned enterprises, a clear control by the state, for example by the Ukrainian Court of Auditors, using budgetary resources, planning revenue to the State budget. With the proper approach of the Cabinet of Ministers to the urgency, legality and reasonableness of making appropriate decisions that will have to be drawn up after the adoption of the above-mentioned law, Ukraine will allow half-vert to return to the planning that was in the Soviet era that we deliberately lost, and the Capitalists have captured, improved and successfully implemented in their national, paws and farms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u110	Thank you. I can't see the ink. Please, Bartkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u111	Dear fellow national MPs, dear Adam Ivanovich! Both bills, and the first one introduced by the government, and the second one introduced by the People's MP, are aimed at correcting the laws governing businesses in Ukraine. In particular, they draw attention to the need to strengthen state control over the activities of state enterprises. Such an approach to strengthening the legislative foundations of state control in the relevant sector of the economy cannot be overlooked. However, this is at first sight. But there are many questions as to how well such an approach is embodied in the proposed bills. From this rostrum, the previous speakers noted the legal nonsensus that the government has once again tried to introduce into the session hall in the form of a proposed bill that would fail, and I do not agree here with Mr. Carmazin, not two months from now, but a month from now. Because by the time he becomes the law, it'll be a while. So whether we need to do another one of these holes, or maybe one of those important aspects that is highlighted in the proposed bills, to put in place a systemic, single law. I see a few approaches to solving this problem. The first one. Cancel the relevant paragraph of the Code of Economics and thereby continue the operation of the Act on Businesses. However, I don't think it fits the ideology of the farm code and will be supported in the session room. The other one. Defer at the time when the code of validity is acquired. Moreover, such suggestions are already available. But I don't think they're going to get a lot of support before they're going to question the relevance of the farm code at all. And the third. Applying directly proposed changes to the household code proposed today by the People’s Deputy Pinzenik. In view of this proposal, we may agree, but I would like to remind you of the appropriate standard of the code of agriculture. According to article 65, part 10, of the Economic Code, the characteristics of individual business management are to be established alongside the code of special laws on such enterprises. So, dear colleagues, we discussed these issues in a group of non-fractionals and decided not to support any drafts. Our proposal goes back to the next one. Using such an interesting legal instrument as a law, creating a law, a separate law on state enterprises, taking into account the right proposals for both the first and the second bills. Thus, the problem will be settled once and for all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u112	Thank you. So we have, if you think of Carmazin, 50 percent versus 50 percent. We'll take that as a yes. Pozakov - for, Bartkov - for, for, for, for, for, for, or against? There's no Cruise. Yes, would you please, Anatoly's Frost? None. Yes. Conovaluk, I can't see. Reaper? None. School? None. Gurov? None. Nigga for or against? Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, we are examining a very important topic today. In fact, the State lost control of state property. And this has a very negative effect, in particular, state enterprises, state-owned enterprises hide taxes, don't pay budget taxes, don't upgrade appliances, environmental requirements, they don't meet the requirements, and so on. I mean, if we think that we should have a powerful public sector in the economy, we should not lose the ability to manage this powerful sector. Hence, there is a need for such a law. in order to ensure the formation of a system of government ownership. Does the bill deal with the problem? In my opinion, no, it's kind of a palate, maybe it's a step in the right direction, but the question isn't being solved. I tend to think that the Pinzenik bill is still closer. Although I am part of the committee that represented this law from Parliament today, I also tend to think that the committee cannot support two or three or five bills at the same time. The committee’s mission is to identify and recommend a bill to the Supreme Council, a session hall. So if you're going to choose between these bills, I'm going to propose that you base the Pinzenik bill and take into account the right points that are in the government bill. I also support those MPs who have already spoken about this today that there is a need to make substantial changes to the Code of Masters. Although we had accepted it for a long time and it was difficult for us to pass through the hall, there were many compromises and perhaps that is why it did not come out perfect. Life shows that changes are needed in the Codex of the Master. And if we make these changes and we adopt a specific, special law on government property management, then we can create an effective system of government ownership management. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u114	Thank you. Since the matter concerns the Special Committee on Privatization, please, Semenyuk with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u115	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! If we want to create crises in the state, we need to create crises in government ownership. In accordance with the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, issued on 15 December 1992 on the administration of property, which is in general state ownership, article 3 states: " prohibit the ministries and other offices of the Cabinet of Ministers from directly interfering in the business activity of enterprises owned by the state. What does that say? After the decree was issued, there was actually a Brown movement in the state sector of the economy. And that bill, which Mr. Pinzenik directly and in addition to what is in the Cabinet of Ministers, is to some extent solving the problem that was created today by this article of the Cabinet of Ministers. In view of the importance of today’s absence of the Cabinet of Ministers Act, the veto is either absent or imposed on the part of the executive authorities to be uncontrolled, a veto is imposed on the Law on the administration of public property. I'm from the Special Supervisory Commission to all deputies, but let's take into account the urgency of bringing order to the public sector of the economy, we'll support the Pinzenik bill, complementing the Cabinet of Ministers, and we'll accept this document. We're going to stop the government sector's public sector of the economy. We can't go beyond what we have today -- 29 percent is government property, and no one controls it. At a meeting of the commission, we have to consider the issue of the illegal alienation of state property and similar matters. That's why I'm asking you to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u116	Thank you, please, for the motivation of the Budagyans. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u117	Thank you. 110 County. Donbass. Budagyan. The fact is that neither one nor the other is negligent is feeling that these comrades or citizens who have prepared it are far from industry and the economy. In particular, you know that, to date, public enterprises are already paying a profit tax of 30 per cent, 20 per cent of VAT. And there's a twist of up to 68 percent. These bills also offer a net profit tax in the sense that industry is needed. The public sector must manage this sector. What kind of government is this? That's what they decided to do. Let's go to lunch. Here some have begun to seek him while he was in power, and now they have decided to achieve it fully. I therefore strongly ask not to vote in favour of any project or tomorrow, but to create a new one that would stimulate the business, not vice versa. I didn't lose them. And these projects, in particular, I consider as a person who has worked 45 years in industry, are also involved in science in this industry, and I have something to think about. Please listen to me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u118	Thank you. Please, from Kostinjuk's motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u119	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear Adam Ivanovich, perhaps we should now propose to the profile committee to formally rescind the draft ruling, because the committee representative said that two of them are taking the basis. If there are two bills on one subject, two cannot be taken as a basis, as the Rules do not allow. One of these laws loses power in a month and a half — the enterprise law. Therefore, it is logical to recommend it. recommend that the committee prepare a draft regulation that might provide for amendments to the Code of Masters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u120	Thank you. I think when we decide, the profile committee will tell us its opinion on this issue. When we vote, they'll tell us what the committee was up to when we made that decision, and we'll make a conscious decision with you. The question is closed. By voting on Thursday or Tuesday, let us see when we approach it. The draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Printed Media, the Ukrainian press, is being considered. [[Registration number 2083]] And I'd like to go to both one reporter and a reporter from the committee. Can we look at these two bills at the same time, not individually? How's Santa? We can. Then I would ask, here are two bills to amend the Ukrainian Law on Printed Media, this is the number that I have already announced, 2083, and registration number 2660, and also to amend the Ukrainian Law on Printed Media in Ukraine. [[concerning the sending of mandatory copies]] I'd like us to look at both of these bills in the complex. Reports from the Cabinet of Ministers the First Deputy Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine, Anatoly Leonidovich Murachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u121	Hello, distinguished national MPs. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Your opinion is on the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Printed Media in Ukraine. The need to develop these bills is due to the need for the basic Press Law to be adopted in 1992, and many of its standards need to be changed today. Several times the law was amended accordingly, aimed at bringing its text to the Advertising Act, to the Election Law, to the Judicial Act. And the latest changes that were made were prepared as a result of parliamentary hearings in December 2002. I'm going to take a brief look at the changes that are being proposed. The project proposes that article 4 of the law be clarified in terms of the appropriateness of the vocabulary and the style of printed media to language standards. As a registering authority, we often have to face the problem of applying for a publication with titles that are simply impossible to pronounce from this high rostrum, or they come up with a title that is simply not read in either Ukrainian or other languages. In our view, it is very successful to edit a similar form in the law on the protection of rights to trademarks of goods and services, which states that legal protection is given to law enforcement, which is not contrary to public order, principles of humanity and morals. The project is also designed to amend article 8 of the Press Act, which defines the subjects who are entitled to act as founders of printed media. This change is quite contradictory, but I'm going to try to explain our position. We suggest removing from the list those subjects who have the right to establish printed media, labor groups. Foreseeing a large number of questions, I want to explain. According to civil law, the labour force is neither a subject of law nor a subject of full rights and obligations. Every working group isn't a permanent institution that's once formed and exists without change. It should also be understood that printed media are not a subject of economic activity but a material product of creative work and intellectual property. In practice, the registration of a print media, the founder or co-founder of which is the labour force, poses many problems, since often the enterprise in which the labour force worked is reorganized or even eliminated. In any case, the composition of the labour force is changing. And here's the controversial question: who's the lawyer of the labor group? It is therefore proposed that the article 8 be amended accordingly and that labour groups be excluded from the number of subjects that may be the founders of the printed media. Rather, the desire of the working group can be realized in the form of a legal person identified by the working group. Moreover, the duties of the founder as set out in article 9 of the Press Act on the production, election, financial and material and technical security of the work of the print media community without intervention directly by the enterprise to perform the impossible. Article 12 is proposed to be clarified as follows. We suggest that the founder himself determine the publication for the purpose of the application for State registration. There are now cases where the founders observe that the newspaper is being created for the purpose of promoting noble ideas. And on this basis, they are exempt from the payment of the registration fee. Time is running out, and in time, there is a free newspaper on the market for printed media, and rather, there is a free newspaper in the mailbox, which, in addition to advertising, contains only a name and an output. Thus, under the slogan of charity, the information market produces a purely advertising publication that has avoided registration fees in its own time. Also a very important novelty in this project is the rule that if an application is made for the state registration of a printed media with the name, which is the name of the already registered edition, the application is accompanied by a written confirmation of the founder of the media, whose name is used for such a release. We have been forced to propose such a standard by separate court decisions regarding the use of such names. For example, if there's a registered edition, let's say "Day and Night," and here comes an application for a printed edition of "Day and Night, Week," we have no reason to refuse registration, because all the documents are in line with current legislation. Later, the court takes the case for the appointment of the founder of the first newspaper to the founder of another to use it without the permission of a trademark for goods and services. The registration authority will be necessarily involved, at best, as the third party, in another as the respondent. But in both the first and the second versions, there's a reason to prove that registration is done in accordance with actual legislation. However, all of this takes time and expense, and this is the way we propose to solve the problem. Given that I'm running out of time, I'm going to present a few nuances on a bill that should be considered next. This is about the need to address some of the gaps in legislation regarding the provisions of the Ukrainian Law published by the media and the Ukrainian Law on Compulsory Copies of Documents. This is about article 33 of the law, which provides that periodic and continuing control copies are sent to the founder and registration body immediately after the indignation. The point is that the wording of "control copy" in the law is replaced by "compulsory compliance with the mandatory copy law". And for the rest of you, honourable national MPs, I would like, with your permission, to point out that the proposed changes today are coming from not theory, but from the practice of applying the Ukrainian law on printed media. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u122	Thank you. Please sit down, Anatoly Leonidovich. He will report to the Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, the idea of the Cabinet of Ministers and the State Committee on Television and Radio Communication was obviously correct in that it was necessary to improve the existing law on printed media in parts of ambiguities, identities, and, say, different interpretations of certain things. In practice, it seems that the proposed edition makes life even more difficult. It complicates the lives of the journalist, the editor - in - law, the founder, and those who work in the queen. There is a well - known legislative rule that if a certain norm or concept is treated ambiguously, it is wrong. If a norm is proposed, according to language standards, and how many people are so many language standards, it is quite clear that a publication can be closed because it does not comply with Ukrainian language standards. The great coalition and the great problem involved the situation with the founding authorities of local self - government. You know that today, before the presidential election campaign began, a wave of layoffs by the chief editors, whose founders are local self-government authorities and executive local authorities. In the current law on printed information, there is a protection element where or through the consent of the working group, and there is a chief editor, there is an opportunity to protect itself. At present, there is a conflict, such as with the main editor of the city newspaper, where the city council, the founder, is the city. We had a similar situation in Chernobyl with the founder of the city’s district administration. If the law removes the rule that the editor-in-chief is only dismissed by the founder and appointed, in fact, the labour force and journalists are deprived of the right to influence the situation. There's a whole bunch of other things that we don't think make any decisions. So there's a new concept of, say, country and common publications that you can go around all at the same time. Like, for example, how can we fight the same? The Law does not explain what the same publication is. Well, it's going to register now, for example, we have our newspaper. “Our newspaper is a plus,” reports our newspaper, “two pluses. ” And I am absolutely convinced that it will come out because the law does not explain what is the same. This is exclusively in the realm of copyright protection. And you have to think about how in the realm of copyright to protect it. So the position of the committee is the next. That a whole range of norms that are ambiguous and bloated create even more problems for journalists and the labor community. So the position of the committee is to work out, reject and work, and maybe not make two laws at all. There's only one law I don't comment on. Because there's one word to change. Although this is regulated by the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, as mandatory copies are sent. Here I understand that the Kabmin for reporting needs them, that they have proposed many legislative initiatives. But if we want to work seriously, we need to prepare a new edition of the Press Press Act. Agree with the National Association of Journalists, with the chief editors, and practice will say that we need to change. And for today, I think all of these norms are very much in conflict with the general line of the same government activity program. It says that we need to go through the process of dispossessing and creating social media at a time when changes suggest strengthening the role of the founders of local government authorities, weakening the role of labour groups, and you know that a bill is now under discussion where the National Press Association has made a strict demand that dissuasion can take place only if labour teams play a priority role. And this position is supported by our committee. So our proposal is not to vote in favour of this law, to continue to work, but to work with the chief editors and to accept that editorial that will clearly be seen as an editorial that protects journalists rather than protects the founders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have looked at a list that has been signed up for both laws, and many people are repeating themselves, and it is a joy, that is, we are in addition to time. The National Deputies of Puzakov, Karmazin, Yavorowski, School, and Nepaly are repeated on this list. Let's take this sequence and let's give them the opportunity to make two laws. The word has the national MP Puzakov, to prepare Carmazin. I'm a gmirja. Please, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u125	Thank you very much! Gmira, the Communist faction, Luganshina. Dear colleagues, this bill, which we have been asked to consider, is a “living stream” in Ukraine's legislation on information. When I'm talking about live stream, I'm talking about a brand-of-spoy stream that's been hit by the already shaggy media in Ukraine. I would like to address only two issues that exist in the law. First. Only a publication that does not contain names in foreign media is considered a national publication. Let me give you some examples. "Government courier." This name contains the name of the famous French edition of Kurier, which has existed for centuries. Consequently, the leading government publication of Ukraine is not national, is not Ukrainian. "More," I'm only talking about official government publications. "Evening." I looked at the books, and a half dozen of them were in Russian editions of the mid - 19th century, Slavophilism. Not everything is okay with the Voice of Ukraine, too, the Voice is the name of many newspapers in countries. Western Slav countries. Dear colleagues! Representatives of any party, give me the name of the newspaper and I'll bury myself in the encyclopedia's dictionary to prove to you that that name is not native. What should be the situation? I've come to the conclusion that only mocking non-legislative publications can be used in the title of newspapers. Everyone else has already been used. Here again the question arises, and the bill states that the use of harsh and abusive expressions is prohibited. The question arises as to who will evaluate whether or not the expression is harsh? I recently read one such expert from a national conscious who wrote that Russian non-normal language was by definition rude and non-civilized. It's like a civilized Ukrainian language, because it's sexy, and Ukrainian civilized language is based on an act. And it's very European. On the other hand, many of my colleagues are experts from the national camp, for some reason they are chauvinists and use Russian language. That surprises me, too. Dear colleagues! I would like to stress the following, as long as the law uses very mixed expressions, which can be interpreted differently. This enables the authorities to prohibit everyone and everything and to act as it wishes. This law beats the press in Ukraine and has to be repealed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u126	Thank you, Sergey Petrovich. The word is given to the national deputy Karmazin. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u127	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Well, frankly, Adam Ivanovich, it's very hard to just put these two laws together and put them together. Well, I'll try to discuss it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u128	He's as talented as you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u129	What do I have? You see this elastic cord. This cord is what you want to wear to the media right now. I'm the one who's pointing out that it's not like you're writing here, "literally and brutally." Because aside from the swearing and brutal fact that you want to take the right of the labour force to be the founder of a legal issue, let's just take the right of a citizen to establish something. Well, it's already coming to grips, you know. I can't call it that otherwise. And you say you have to do it. So how are we going to do that? Why would you do that? They're all shutting down the media now, and that's where the authorities of the state, the local self-government authorities for the election, that's exactly what the presidential government needs to do. What are you doing? What, do you have so much money or what, you're offering it? And I'm paying attention, Adam Ivanovich, this is our health draft of the law, which can be called "the attack on freedom of speech," which is called "The Press in Ukraine" the government's health draft of the law, so the conclusion of one sentence is, "We consider it to be a draft law amending the "The Printed Devices" Act to be appropriate" is signed by the head of the Chief Executive of the Scientific and Experimental Matsuk. Anatoly Romanovich, what are you doing? Think about it! You don't get paid to sign that nonsense. Thus, respectable friends, public authorities receive the right, and labour groups are no longer people. Unless people think of themselves as a clan that's in power today. It was agreed here that the word "already," which was used when the can was not built in Moscow, and the word "already" was used, and it was already here in Kiev, in this place, maybe a little bit closer to Dniper. This is where it used to be. And you're telling me that's the Russian word for "evening." Stop telling me what they'd tell you in Odessa. But in Odessa, not only would they say that, but I won't say anything else. Another law is 2660. It's a waste of time, it makes it worse for the founders of the media. You want us to send our money to everyone you ask today, all the way to the President, and so on. Today it is written to the registration body. And you have to deliver these copies free of charge after the mail you're going to write starting with the President's Administration. Ladies and gentlemen, this law violates the rights of established printed media. And I think it violates the current Constitution of Ukraine. Please tell Mr. Yanukovich that he may at times open it, both the Constitution and the new Criminal Code. And as the author of the Criminal Code, one of those who sits here in this room, I can tell you that I've already counted 12 articles for him that we'll apply when we get to power. Stop embarrassing our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u130	Thank you. You don't need threats and intimidation, the more you're known as a lawyer, the more you know it's groundless. The word has a national deputy, Yavorowski, to prepare for the School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u131	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky oblasts, Lvivščina, Our Ukraine, Committee on Freedom of Speech, head of the subcommittee on electronic media. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters who may be listening to us right now. The law in the form of amendments to the law in force, in my view, is not only illiterate but also wicked. The tricky part is that it really makes things even more difficult in our information space. So, you know, the perspective of some sort of inconspicuous repairs that even more shut the mouth of Ukrainians, and so half-deaf, the volume. I am absolutely convinced that we need to correct a mistake in the near future. And our media, the newspapers first of all, must have two phalanx, two branches. One is either formed by a collective or made by one person. And the second is a social or creative organization. I think that's the law we need to work on, because the situation that we have today is what I found in the newspaper "Two Thousand" interviews with our leader and teacher Leonid Danilovich Kuchma. I quote, "I can't say I like it when compliments are given to me. [[& Tiles]] But I try not to pay attention. There are a lot of publications that I just don't take into my hands, because I can tell you in advance what it says about me. We talk about independent press a lot. Unfortunately, we still have, and it's probably going to be a long time: who pays, what? He's ordering music. Therefore, look whose newspaper, and you will have the answers to your questions." If the President finds the situation in the Ukrainian information space exactly like this, what can we talk about here? I am firmly opposed to us adopting this law. Or if someone votes for it, I really want them to know very clearly, and let our press know that they're just pulling an even bigger bang on the neck of Ukrainian publicity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u132	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy of the school. Get ready for Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u133	The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. You know, from the very beginning, I'd like to quote from this law that regulates language standards, so look, "Lexicy and the style of the print media should be in line with popular ethical norms and language standards." Well, "speaking standards" we're going to lower, they exist, it's understandable. What's "generally accepted ethical standards"? Was it not President Kuchma who defined these standards? We remember his normative language that was used in press conferences. [[No, no, not in those records.]] Is it possible to print this or is it not possible to print this law? So if this is based on, as a criterion, and this should meet generally accepted ethical standards, if he's saying, by referring to these generally defined ethical standards, then I don't know. But in principle, I think that nothing like this should be regulated by any law. If there are these generally accepted ethical and moral standards, they should be made up of a group of editors, journalists and so forth, and a reader of this publication. And whoever wants to can write anything, whatever the use of swearing or brutal, or any other word. And to be honest, I think that you might have even been ashamed to propose a bill like this, I felt at least when I listened to you, because it's not a good idea, believe me, and it's not a level for us to suggest something like this, in a country where censorship and darkness have become a constant phenomenon of norms, of using those words or other words. Look, whatever it is, we're listening to the media, where we're told that there are guerrillas in Iraq, that they're fighting for their own people, well, great guys, we're explaining that these guerrillas destroyed the damned Italians. Why? Who gave it, who determined who the guerrilla and who didn't? Who's the terrorist? And in Palestine, there are terrorists. Palestinian terrorists blew something up, and Iraqi guerrillas destroyed Italians. This way. There must be some moral, ethical standards. But in the dungeon, Medvedchuk read and said: “Yes, in Iraq partisans, in Palestine terrorists. And everything was clear, and they started working. By the way, notice when this is given. There, you know, there's a lot of opposition going on, and Palestine's down there, and it's doing some stupid things. You can't do that. That's not the way to do it. And I think that's why these amendments to the bill were written in the Presidential Administration. I'm going to point out once again that I wouldn't even discuss this bill, that we should reject it and not even offer it. That's the level of the Cabinet of Ministers that would not allow you to go to the National Deputies. I'm not talking about the first copy, the sending it, where you'll tell me where it is. You know, I've been editor-in-chief for a long time, and I know what a messenger is. If you want, every library gets a copy of each edition and every recipient, every one you want. But it doesn't have to be regulated. Just as moral, ethical norms can't be regulated in any legislation, they're either there or they're not there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u134	Thank you. The word has been given by the national deputy Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u135	John Boki, the Socialist faction. Dear colleagues! When I listened to my colleagues Yuri Karmazin and Andrew School, I thought they were even very high on our Cabinet of Ministers and in general on the leadership of our state. I mean, of course, I'm talking ironically about it. Because we're entering a controversy around things that I don't think are coming out. For example, Yuri Anatoliyovich quoted the President as saying that we do not have independent newspapers. He's saying it right. But he's talking about newspapers that serve him, and independent newspapers do. I worked in a newspaper like that. And I know very well how she became independent. In 1993, unfortunately, there is no Valerius Paulovich Desert because he was one of the leaders of this marriage process. At this rostrum, then Prime Minister Leonid Danilovich Kuchma complained to the Supreme Council that he was being criticized by newspapers funded by the Cabinet of Ministers. To your knowledge, the Cabinet of Ministers didn't finance a newspaper at the time. And he didn't spend a penny, including on "Village News," among which the founders of the Cabinet of Ministers were numbered. But our then prime minister, and today's president, was so busy with business that he didn't even know it, he didn't know it. Although he knew. He knew about it. That's why the labor team, by the way, decided to divorce such a co-founder. And since the law gave priority to the labour community and not to the Cabinet of Ministers, the divorce process was a long one, but the labor team successfully won it. And the newspaper was and is independent even though Rabbiovich suddenly posted "Silly News" in his paper yesterday in a portrait of Alexander Moroz. I want to say it all over Ukraine again. Alexander Alexander Moroz and the Socialist Party of Ukraine have nothing to do with the Village News. Except for one. That two former employees of this newspaper are members of this faction, but we are not now influencing the politics of this newspaper. As to the fact that Anatoly Leonidovich Murachowski had to report one of the novels of this law that the labor group could not be the founder of the printed edition. So I would like to express to him only compassion in the sense that he repeats other people's thoughts. Sadly, these are the thoughts of those who would not like to see our press independent. I'd like to see it in the paper, which is that the press has been in those chains that it's been in for many years. And you just want this law, as they say, to strengthen this entourage. It's no matter how you repeat the thoughts of some oil. The clans who are dictated such will. I think you've just-just humiliated yourself as a person and as a government authority and destroyed the honor of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u136	Thank you. Please, Philenko asks. National Deputy Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! I think we should take a principled position on this point, I want to support those MPs who proposed rejecting the bill. And there are two main reasons. The first reason is that you can't put the labor force in the background, you can't stop it from being the founder, you probably should be, as Yavorowski and those and other printed media said. And the second. We can't do this vacchanal right now, because we can't have analogs that are abroad, foreign. This is what we're going to do, and we're just going to be able to paralyze all the editions. What Is Needed? We need to adopt a new edition of the Press Press and Printed Media Act. What Tomenko was talking about, I agree, because it's the same editorial that we have, and it doesn't meet the needs of today and the perspective. So let's think about it, and here we will support you, if you propose a new version of the law on printed media, about the press in Ukraine, then we will support it. What should be the main thing here? The main thing is to make it impossible to censor central and local authorities over printed means, also electronic, of course. And to make it impossible to censor a cash bag, here's the real addiction, the dependence on central and local newspaper authorities. And it depends on the money bag. That's why we have, I'd say, a press addict and there's a press outlet, that's even worse. If we are to ensure freedom of speech and freedom of speech, then we need to adopt a new law where censorship and authority and money bags are not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u138	Thank you. Please, with the motives of Salamatin, then for the reptiles of Yavorowski and Gmir. Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u139	Yuri Solomatin. The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! You and I are witnessing that the bourgeois authorities are now trying to put a shadow on the bourgeois opposition. The latter makes desperate opposition. So I just want to say one thing, the last one has to be at least a little bit supportive because on this resistance, and we the Communist faction have to get some opportunity to speak our word to the people. And this is where I want to end, so there's no illusions about who's listening, that there's, on the one hand, some that's making a mess, and on the other hand, those that's protecting the disadvantaged people. Both of them are worthy of sending them to a well - known address and supporting the Communist Party itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u140	Please, the Javorov word for replication.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u141	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear Adam Ivanovich! I'm not from the bourgeois opposition, I'm from the proletarian. I have it, because maybe the Ukrainian television audience knows that on the first channel in the software "The One," I think they're just grabbing people in the street and putting them in a chair to water the Yavorovsky and Ukrainian writers with dirt. Because of the fact that there's a deputy minister here, I'm going to ask you to give me a word on "The One," and I'll see if there's publicity in Ukraine or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u142	Thank you, please, Gmira.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u143	I'd like to object to my colleague Solomatina. The thing is, of course, the word "more" is the Ukrainian word. But that's not what this is about. The text of the law states that if something called “More” is called abroad, it cannot be used in Ukraine. Moreover, if a magazine called “Ukraine” appears abroad, it is no longer possible to use such a name in Ukraine, according to the spirit of the law. That's what this is about. And I think your hot speech was the result of a misunderstanding. Thank you. Carmazine, I'm talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the consideration of both issues, as we agreed, has been completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. We have the next question. Your last name was not mentioned, Yuri Anatoliyevich, not mentioned, Solomonine was mentioned. Under the following bill, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the One Congregation, which is managed at the crossing points across the state border of Ukraine. The Financial and Banking Committee requests that we move the matter forward and include it in the agenda of the daily session following the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Tax Laws in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2004 (U.S.A., Registration No. 4000-1). So, I think we're going to listen to the committee's proposals and we're going to take it up. There is a question, registration number 4185, the draft Law on Freedom of Religion and Religious Organizations. Reported by the Ukrainian National MP, author of the bill, Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u145	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, respected believing citizens, unbelievers, and our spiritual shepherds. First of all, I would like to thank the Head of the Supreme Council, as well as the Conciliation Council of the Majority, for the fact that this bill has been put forward for consideration by the Supreme Council, although with a reduced procedure. I would be even more grateful to them if two of my bills concerning increased state aid to families with children, which had been submitted much earlier than this bill, had been considered in this session room even under a reduced procedure and put into consideration and submitted to the 2004 draft budget. Sadly, that was not the case. However, today we are discussing, not the issue of excise duties, not taxes, not even the railway forces, but the substance of a slightly different order that borders with the laws of God and human -- the relationship in the sphere of conscience, freedom of conscience and religion. So let's think about what changes are made in this bill and what we have today. To this day, we have spiritual bread besides the bread of the needy one. That spiritual bread is our interfaith peace and tranquillity, which is a great gain, one of the few Ukrainian twelfths that we can be proud of. We can also be proud because in the early 1990s we experienced a situation called interfaith opposition and misunderstanding in Ukraine. In view of that, I would like to point out that, unfortunately, we seem, in our 2004 draft budget, we are not giving our voters the expected bread that is valid for 237 dollars of the average wage. And it looks like it's only going to be 205. But let us see if we are taking from our citizens today this most important acquisition, this spiritual bread, which is interfaith peace and tranquillity. In 12 years, the Ukrainian Parliament has been discussing this subject for the fourth time. And I would like to point out that my bill is conceptually very close and similar to the bill that was drafted at the Institute of Legislative Expertise and Comparative Rights, led by Mr. Vasil Kostick's former vocation, and submitted in a previous vocation, and received a very positive response from our own, the same Bureau of Experts in charge of Mr. Matsuk, who today gives a slightly different response to my bill. It would be good if our administration were consistent at least with its own conclusions. That's why a month ago, Parliament was looking at a government project called Making Changes to the Freedom of Conscience Act. In view of that, when I report on the advantages of my bill, I will also stop at a government comparison. So what do I think is good and positive in my bill? First of all, my bill is not a form of dictatorship for our believers and our churches, because the government bill of 68 existing religions in Ukraine at first 64, and now everyone seems to have responded negatively. My bill doesn't carry that. The other one. My bill is more competent in defining definitions in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, and it also meets those requirements of the Council of Europe, which in fact recommend that we minimize the functions of administration in such a delicate realm as spirituality, and the government bill increases the powers of the governing body. I also wanted to stop at the advantage that my bill refers to the transfer of the temple - of - worship building. The government bill refers to the transfer of property. By the way, without financial and economic justification, which is no reason to adopt this bill. Tell me, dear friends, to whom we shall pass our confessions. The Gospel. And finally, about the name, about the definition of this law. The name of my law on making changes to the law of religion, not conscience. Dear friends! In our Constitution, the preamble says, the only preamble to the conscience is to confess responsibility to God, to conscience, to present, future and future generations. We're not going to find any more of this anywhere in our Constitution. Then, in 1991, we were romantics. And in reality? Lowest average pension. A minimum pension in Europe of $9 is not a slap today? Lapas. Mixed children, who are not yet 18 years old in the areas of Donetsk. It is not slapping, it is spitting into the future, the eyes of the future, which are our children, but abusing the memory of participants and fighters with fascism. And as we are to see on the television screens of Barbara Timofievna Yashchenko, the widow of the veteran of the Great Homeland War, prisoner of Auschwitz with order number 11387, when she sees the abuse they have committed against our past, over our memory. So, gentlemen, we just didn't get to freedom of conscience, I don't see it today. As a result, I propose to uphold my law in the first reading, based on my reasons. And I'm also addressing all the national MPs with the information that we heard on the committee on my bill, and the committee has accepted the recommendation that I repeat today: if I'm willing to call off my draft draft for redrafting and re-imposing the first reading, the government will do the same with its bill, or else I'm asking you to support my bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u146	Thank you, thank you. Lilia Stepanovna, hold back because Simonov is very interested in asking you a question. No, no, then let's do it. No, no. All right, let Simon know. Write down who else wants to ask the question. You're speaking, Yuri Anatolyevich, so you'll have a chance. Please point it on the board. Please, Simonov. I can't see the rich guy. Nigger. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u147	Adam Ivanovich, thank you. Simonov, U.K.A. Dear Lilia Stepanovna, I have a question of this order to you. Yesterday there was a session of the Ternopil District Council. The session made a decision regarding the Pochai’s laurel. Maybe I'm not very clear on my question, because people passed it over on the phone, but the point is to create a commission of officials, law enforcement and inventory of Lavra's property, passport regime and so on. So now I have two questions to ask you. First. Do you think such actions correspond to the draft of your law? Does it reflect the absence of interference in the work of the Church? And the second. Knowing that Lavra is referring to the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate, would it not be a turning point between Ukraine’s west and Ukraine’s east? And will it be a social harmony? What's more, you just called the events in Donetsk and Suma. I think it's another provocation, or the basis, of Yushchenk Viktor Andriyovich. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u148	Thank you for asking. You know, I can't comment on the decision of the Ternopil Council either, because I haven't read it as much as you have, but hearing your question I can recommend you really support my bill. Because it does not have that great dictatorship of the governing body, which is called the State Committee on Religious Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u149	Please, Nigger. He's got dirt on him.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u150	Dear Lilia Stepanovna, however it may be, in Ukraine, must be acknowledged that there are strong interfaith relations and even conflicts, the seizure of buildings, many politicians involved in these relations. Do you think the adoption of your bill will reduce the severity of these interfaith relations? And will his acceptance of the creation in Ukraine of the only Massacre Ukrainian Orthodox Church? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u151	Thank you. When I reported my bill, I said that one of the few victories we've had in the last 12 years is civil interfaith peace. For let us agree that what had little place in the nineties has, fortunately, passed away. We have no express opposition. And this is our great gain. As to whether it can get worse and worse, I report that with the adoption of the government bill, it is clear that it may possibly be less with the adoption of my bill, because at least I do not have such clear protests against all our Ukrainian churches, which are united in the Council of Churches. But I think it would be very good to reconsider, to discuss and to make without haste, not to force changes that would be adequate and time-consuming and our current situation. That's why I started by saying that I'd be happier if we introduced two other bills from the Ukrainian national deputy Grigorovich today. On the increase of State aid to families with children for 2004. That would be urgent.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u152	Please, Grzezhev, follow him Masenko. Do you pass it to Rudkov? Rudkov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u153	Dear reporter, please tell me about your bill that you can place several faiths in a cult building. So it's from your point of view that claims to use, let's say, the Orthodox Church of Satanists and the Orthodox religion should allow for the creation of lawlessness there. That's the first one. And the second question. National Patriots often assume that the Great October Socialist Revolution has caused much harm to our suffering people and so on. Do you not consider it appropriate that for 1917 all the temples in Ukraine were to be passed on to the Canonic Church of Ukraine? Well, if that's what you call Moscow.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u154	Dear Mr. Rudzkowski, you are such a wise and professional MP that your first question does not entirely match your important status. Because you know exactly that a sect of Satanists can never be registered in Ukraine. Because its statutory activity is contrary to the Ukrainian Constitution and the Ukrainian Freedom of Conscience Act. So, of course, your question was not on the subject. With regard to the possibility of using a number of religions, it's like a hypothesis, like a call, but it's all going to be decided by the good will of the community. And if there is such a will, it's possible, if there's no such will, of course it doesn't matter. Now about your question for our future prospects. You know, we've been married in the walls a few times today by the previous call of our parliament, by today's adoption of a small or large tax code. We didn't make it. This is a subject exclusively legislative and secular. Let us not go so far into the prospects of a more subtle matter called freedom of conscience and unification of the Ukrainian Orthodox churches. Let us act with regard to the laws of God and of man and of our Constitution, and these processes will take place more quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u155	Masenko, 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u156	Thank you. Lescia Stepanovna! I'm curious about this question, I can't figure out who there is to the Satanic Church, who it is to what religion, it's a more complex question, and I understand that we just have to get ready for it. But I'm always interested in one question, whether it's evil, or it's sin, when a person takes half or most of his life against a church, and half or most of his life goes to church, and he goes to church to put a candle in it -- it's like God approves of it, or it's a sin. I mean people, figures famous in Ukraine like Kravchuk, like Kuchma, and others, lots of them in us, you know. So they stood up against the church, now they put up candles, whether it pleases God or not? Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u157	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your very correct question. Which only proves that we are really talking about something other than the purely practical aspects of our daily life. The way to God is never closed, one comes to her with a five-year-old boy, another comes to her 30-year-old man, some come to her at 80. And some people never pass, for all God's will, but for example, I am glad that even though the great Ukrainian political power, I am already using the word “Ukrainian” in advance, speaking of the Communist Party, I came to God and today you are protecting and supporting at least one religion. I believe that this first step may be given by God, and you will continue to draw closer to high truths better.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u158	Thank you, Lilia Stepanovna, from the committee of the vice-chair of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich, please. I'm out of procedure. Well, while the Cossacks go, turn on the microphone, please, Carmazina.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u159	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Motherland Defenders. Victor Yushchenka's electoral block "Our Ukraine." Dear Adam Ivanovich! Of the people who spoke, 5 asked questions, 4 were 6, 4 was your faction. I would ask you very much, either to look at the list, or to do something like that, I realize that the Communists today have all gone to God. Thank God, they may recant the sins of those to whom they have inherited the name. But they don't have these communists. But one way to treat factions is to treat factions equally. Adam Ivanovich, I'm begging you, you're a good man.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u160	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! Please, there are people not far from you who will show you the list, no last name, I haven't changed, I've only given you the word instead of Gmiri, the fourth was on the list, I've given Masenku the word, no list that hasn't been changed. You can see that behind your back. Your accusations are unfounded. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u161	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow national MPs! I wanted to ask you all at once. We are considering the State Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations. Let us therefore separate: for God is God, and Caesar is Caesar's. We act as state legislators, not as people of spiritual condition, who are to determine what religion is canonic, which is uncontaminated, who can be candlesticked to the throne, and who cannot. It's none of our business, it's not the legislator's business. So, in that law that Lilia Grigorovna is proposing, there are a lot of interesting new points that need to be considered, well first of all, Lilia Grigorovna thinks, Stepanovna, I'm sorry, she thinks that all the registration functions should be given to the Ministry of Justice and the administration of justice in the cities, and so the State Committee on Religious Affairs turns out to be unnecessary. It's an issue. I, for example, don't follow this Lilia Stepanovna. I think we need to leave them for a while, but maybe we can improve their functions completely. Now here's the next one. I absolutely agree with the fact that there must be a state-level recognition in this legislation that today's world civilization, or if you want it to be, European civilization was formed on Christian ground and whatever it is that there in France, let's say 30 percent of the citizens of the state believe themselves, still the society of this Republic of France is built on Christian principles. This should also be reflected in our law, for there is such an evangelical truth: If the Lord does not build a house, the builders do in vain labor. It's a universal thesis. Next. I think that there should be some degree of State - Church interrelationship. This issue, that is, the concept of State policy in the field of religion and the treatment of the Church, is being dealt with by the Zhumkova Center along with the State Committee. I think it should be reflected in this law, in Lily Stepanovna it is, too. And another very important and universal principle. We have recorded in the Constitution that there can be no discrimination based on language, nationality, and religious beliefs. Why, then, are all these spiritual educational institutions that have our churches of different religions not recognized as certificates of their education at the national level, not recognized, by the way, only in Ukraine. In Russia, they admit, in Belarus, I'm not talking about Poland. The Czech Republic and other European states. So this is and this has to be written. Well, last of all, since there's no time left. Dear colleagues! I'm very happy with what my law is. And I'm one of the co-authors of today's Freedom of Conscience Act, religious organizations, has been established from April 24, 1991 to today. Of course, he needs to make changes, but the opinion of our committee is that, and I would like the committee on religious matters to agree. Let's call off both laws and re-read them and offer you a piece of paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u162	Thank you. Yes, dear fellows, the procedure has been shortened. Solomonine. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u163	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Very many words, respected colleagues and respected radio audiences, have been said that we need spiritual bread no less than the bread we need. And that's exactly right. But as a Communist, I want to say that the spiritual bread of every society is its own. The one who has robbed his spiritual bread and the one who is distressed has a different spiritual bread. So let us not confuse the righteous with the sinner when we consider the matter. And so by no chance do I want to say this to my colleague, who was standing right here in the stands in front of me. Now that the Constitution of the European Union is being formed, and under the leadership of this commission, which is the Constitution, is the former President of France, Mr. Mitteran, this commission and above all, Mr. Mitteran, former President of France, rejected from the draft Constitution all memories of common Christian European values and instead introduced the notions of human values. What's "general human values"? This is George Bush, Tony Blair, Mikhail Gorbachev, Leonid Kravczuk, and other people with a public face, but not with the face that a working man has. That's what we have to consider with you. And the second. It's about church self-government. This is a very dangerous path to the onslaught of other religions and the onslaught of other religions. And we are almost every day on the radio and on television and outside the radio and television, hearing these preachers’ performances in front of our people. They have gone around the houses and are already carrying into our minds what is completely alien, completely alien to our people. Even if we put the registration of these religious organizations in place, as proposed, it will lead us to get the White Brotherhood back, which was registered in Kiev, and other similar organizations. Right here. I'm being warned that two notes have been brought, and I apologize that Mr. Mitteran, he's already gone into a different world, and this proposal was made by Valery Giscar De Stan. And I thank my two colleagues for correcting my mistake. So in closing, I want to talk about the following. The way to God seems not to be closed to everyone, as stated here. We will come to the conclusion that indulgences will be distributed to those who have slandered both God and our people. You can't agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u164	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy of the school. Get ready for Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u165	The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. In a few words, I'd like to stop at the proposed bill. Of course, it is not perfect, and there are a lot of things that need to be worked out. Of course, putting the registration capabilities in place, for example, the same thing as Minust in the process of dealing with the body, the issue is very controversial and unclear. So there's not much motivation here. But I agree with the report that this law does not carry pressure, coercion, abuse of hands in matters of property. Because the previous law, proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, is a serious enough tool to twist hands not just for one person or another, but simply forcing all the structures of the church to work for existing authority. And we understand that because the one who shares is the one who orders the music. So I think we should support it in the first reading. Perhaps a universal formula is to send both bills for re-reading. But whatever the case, I would like to encourage the bill to support that if it goes through the first reading of support, then there will be more room for manoeuvre with a view to neutralizing the previous law, absolutely hostile to the spirit that proposes regulation. That's what the Cabinet of Ministers bill means. And a few words. You know, I wouldn't want to analyze the situation that is now in European space, especially in the case of the European Constitution, where the issue of Christian morality in the constitution was removed. It is a state, especially the same Poland, which has placed under conditions of non-signatories, the non-signature of its signature without condition of at least Christian principles. Come on, we can say abstractly when in China, the traditional state, the new year is celebrated twice. And we don't know which new year they're celebrating more or Chinese or Christian. In the Arab countries, however, they live by the Christian calendar. So let's not forget that today is the year 2003 from what? Not from the announcement, not from the great October revolution. And not by nature. And since the birth of the Son of God. So we need to keep in mind and live by these Christian principles, whether we want it or not. Therefore, it is more objective and more natural to want to live by them and to offer these principles to others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u166	Thank you. The word has the national MP Rudzkowski, to prepare the Rabbit for John Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u167	Dear national deputies, distinguished listeners! The situation that we are currently considering in Parliament is the result of the Ukrainian Security Service and then President Leonid Krawczuk, who tried to create an alternative to the Orthodox Church of the Canonic Moscow Patriarchate. That's why I was assigned to the Philaret Patriarch. And so began the construction of the so - called Ukrainian Orthodox Church. I don't think the people's deputies need to get involved in this process by supporting the security forces. We have to take a step back, mention that in 70 years, the Communist regime did not try to overthrow the Orthodox Church, it did not divide it, it did not push it. During the 10 years of independence, the leaders of the Ukrainian New Independent State did so! First. It's different. We should bear in mind that for more than a thousand years, Ukrainian Orthodoxy opposed Catholicism in Europe, resisting the upsurge of Muslimism in the territory of Orthodox, former Russia. That is why we should keep this in mind when we write down the law. By no means can this law be upheld, for it enables us to use temples in which our ancestors prayed for centuries, to impart them to other religions based on Satanism and other theories. I don't think this law is possible. And we need to develop a law that would allow all the cult buildings to be passed on for 917 years, as our colleagues on the right-wing factions insist, all to be passed on to the Orthodox Church of Moscow's so-called patriarch, the canonic church that built it, and the believers gave money for it. We should do so, remembering their ancestors ’ faith in God. And we have to legitimize this as the national deputies of the new Ukrainian state.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u168	Thank you, Santa. The word is John Alexander the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u169	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, Our Ukraine. Grand National Deputies, the high-ranking Mikola Rudzkowski. I want to start with your word. And I have to tell you that, in fact, the Communist regime didn't break Orthodoxy, it just destroyed it. And you know well that all the dioceses were condemned and destroyed, and all the churches were destroyed: and the Council of Michael in Kiev, and thousands, tens, hundreds of churches were destroyed throughout Ukraine. So I am ashamed to say that you do not know the history of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. We're discussing two bills today, two ideologies. The Cabinet of Ministers bill is directed against spirituality, freedom of conscience, conscience, and religion, for it reinforces administrative pressure on religious organizations because it wants to transfer community property to the property of a church or organization. The transfer of property from the hands of a community to the property of a church or religious organization immediately binds people to the top, to its hierarchy. Such a transfer creates opportunities to twist the hands of people of authority, to use religious organizations in the political struggle today. And they can't help but be seen by the national MPs. Therefore, dear friends, let us take up these questions with responsibility. We're talking about the traditional democracy of Ukrainians. We're talking about community property being both economic and others if you want a foundation for freedom of worship. You want to drive all of this into an organization today, and you want to run these people in this delicate matter of religion. So, dear friends, let's talk about the Grigorovich bill being much more democratic and much better than the Cabinet of Ministers bill. And there's nothing to be fooled about. This bill just came out of the Cabinet of Ministers to launch a mechanism for the division of Ukrainian society. And each of you knows that only unity in Ukrainian society will allow us today to overcome all of these woes and overcome this crisis that has plagued Ukrainian society. Therefore, we should yearn for unity, we should yearn for unity, we should speak of the only local church today, not begin to break apart all that it has to do today. Therefore, honourable national MPs, I urge you not to deceive, to put your narrow party interests ahead of national interests and to act morally. And that means either accepting the Grigorovich projects or rejecting them to make a normal bill for the first read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u170	Thank you, for your reasons, for requesting Rephat Chubarov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u171	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! I'm writing it down, but I can see that the turn won't work, so I asked for it myself, and because I think we should listen to a little bit of a different view of this bill. I have, like many of you, no doubt that we need to improve the standards of the current law on freedom of conscience and religious organizations. At the same time, it is clear that any attempt to improve this law must be decided in such a way as not only to avoid reducing the scope of human rights provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine, but also, if possible, to improve the legal mechanism for their implementation in real life. If you go from this very approach to assessing the draft law that we are considering right now, I think it has a range of norms that, if approved, would violate the basic provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine in the field of human rights. In particular, article 35 will not be deciphered in the absence of time. I want to say that some of the standards proposed by the author also give preference to one religion if they are approved. Already in the first consideration of article 1 entitled "The task of the law" the author proposes such a norm, I quote: " The purpose of this law is to promote the establishment of the traditional Christian Church as a significant cultural acquisition and ethnic factor of the Ukrainian community." A few questions are immediately raised here. First. Ivan Aleksandrovich, I ask you to listen a little, because I am discussing it with you. What are the mechanisms for this State’s promotion when the church of a religious organization in Ukraine is separated from the State, which may be the mechanisms of the State of one church. If the author believes that there are such ways to promote it, why should they simply go to one of the religions? Unless the citizens of Ukraine are part of the Ukrainian people. I understand that the author wanted to emphasize the role of the Christian Church in the formation and development of the Ukrainian nation. But if we want to emphasize the importance of the religious factor regarding the Ukrainian nation, including its spiritual development, which is in itself a just statement, we do not forget that other religions play the same important role in relation to those citizens of Ukraine who are not ethnic Ukrainians or are not Christians. In my view, I have failed to understand the laws that provide for the right to provide religiously recognized and religiously philosophical disciplines in home schools. We've already spoken from this rostrum, we can agree that we divide children by language of learning, because it's a natural right of parents, children. But if we continue to do so, this standard will necessarily result in the monopolization of churches or religious organizations in one region or another. These will be different situations that we will force our parents to do. As far as religion is concerned, children are concerned. Dear colleague! I don't want to call your last name the Socialist Party. I don't want you to take the word for it. This is not the first time I have noticed that you have some stereotypes about Islamic religion, and the relationship to Christian relations. As a historian, I just have to tell you, you're making a very bad history of Christian Orthodox and Muslim ties. There's never been any aggression of Islam in terms of Orthodoxy. I would ask you not to use such statements from the rostrum, and I conclude, Adam Ivanovich. In my opinion, what we have to do, I could say the same thing about the project that the Cabinet of Ministers made, but then I didn't get a turn. I'm sure that tomorrow we have to vote in favour of re-reading the two bills, send them back for a re-read and invite them to try to get out with the only text of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u172	Thank you. Now this is how we're going to go, in a minute, to Rudzkowski, Cherniak, the final word of a minute for Lily Stepanovna and we're going to finish the question. Please, the Rudzikowski word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u173	Dear colleagues! First of all, I'm very tolerant of both Catholicism and Islam and other traditional religions. But we can't forget what it was for centuries when the Ukrainian people fought for their own identity, for their independence, and we built our own state in the end. I want to pay attention to right-wing factions, not to be debated about Orthodoxy, we are considering this law, based on what the Ukrainian Orthodox Church is, as it were, the canonic and the Kyiv patriarch. We've been split up. We have to do everything we can to have one church but a canonic church. Three men cannot gather for a bottle of vodka and create a church, for there is also a need for a blessing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u174	Thank you. Please, the word of the Black Man.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u175	Dear colleagues! I agree with what my fellow rabbit MP said, except for one. He said maybe two bills should be rejected and a new one written. It'll be a long time again. I do propose to adopt the bill of MP Grigorovich as a basis. This is the first time. It's different. We need to exclude politics from religious interfaith relations, overcome the divisions of Orthodoxism, and build the only Orthodox Ukrainian church in Ukraine. Third. Regarding Chubarov's performance. I don't know, maybe he took some moments very painfully, but the Grigorovich bill said "freedom of religion," including Islam, of all other religions. And I see no threat to other religions if we adopt this law. And the last. Rudzkowski again. It is not true that the Moscow patriarch built a church in Ukraine. The churches, all temples of Kiev, were built by Peter Mowgila and John Mazep. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u176	Please finish. Please give me a minute, Lilia Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you all very much for your part in this discussion, and I think it's very topical today. Dear friends! I want to say that by passing my bill and my rhetoric in the process of discussion, I was trying to demonstrate the Christian ethics that obviously needs to be demonstrated by Parliament. And I would like to tell my colleague, who in his speech relied endlessly on Satanism, about the services. Two things. A respected colleague who relies endlessly on Satanism is in the service! Let's count the Ukrainian legislation from the Constitution of Philip Orlik, and the Ukrainian church from the Church of Peter Mogila, and whether it was destroyed or not, and whether there was a Ukrainian identity, let me tell you that I am standing before you, the daughter of a repressive Ukrainian priest, sentenced to death for not wanting to give up God and rehabilitated for 25 years, and then completely, only after Stalin died. I would never mention that. But your love for Satanism and for special services in defining the specifics of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church and our spirituality makes me do so. I don't think such speeches and positions of MPs should sound in these walls in the twenty-first century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-19-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We'll determine when the time is right. I want to remind you of the order of our next work that there will be a 15-hour parliamentary hearing on the question of "Ukrainian foreign policy as a tool to ensure the national interests of the state. Profits, realities and perspectives." At 4: 00 p.m., profile committees and factions will begin. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Thank you for your cooperation.
