ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we'll get started. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the “Council” system. [[10:01:34]] Registered -399 Dear colleagues. At the opening ceremony of the 4th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, members of the government led by Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine-Malarenko Vasil Timofiovich, Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine-Selovon Mikola Fedosovic, Head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine-Pritica Dmitro Mikitovic, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine-Suscoun Svetoslav Mihajlovich, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine-Tikipko Sergey Leonidovic, Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights - Karpachov Nina Ivanovna, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine-Tikipko Sergius Leonidovic, Head of the Supreme Council of the Ukraine for Human Rights - Carpachov National Representative of the Ministry of the Arab Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Cyprus. In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is declared open. [[The Moon of the Hymn of Ukraine]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-02-m0.u2	The statement is given to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-02-m0.u3	Dear National Deputies! Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, leaders of the judicial system, representatives of the press department, distinguished guests! If it were required to give a lecture on the tasks of the fourth session, it could be done with the words of Michael Gruszewski: "This process of national straightening, initiated by the forces with the upper real conditions, firm as far as too many events, must be deliberately continued by all the conscious elements of our citizenship in order to find its destiny and its broad path in today's circumstances. However, the circumstances of the next political season need to be discussed more widely. The conversation seems to go beyond parliamentary activity. But only at first sight. Because it is called upon to accumulate our positions for the production of the Supreme Council's collective line according to its constitutional purpose. Taking as an aximation that the next ten years will determine the future of Ukraine, we have just as good reason to say that it is during this session that we will essentially determine what this decade will be like for Ukraine. And because of the familiar circumstances in which it will be accompanied and because of the decisive role that the Supreme Council is called upon to play. And only she, based on cooperation with the President and the Cabinet of Ministers. Our historical experience, the twelve-year period of independence and the world’s realities give us a clear conclusion: Ukraine is and will already be a state, is and will be independent of the will and wishes of politicians. [[Applause]] The question lies in another plane: What will be our state? So today we are facing a choice: either continue to develop in the same way at the same pace and at the same pace, and with the same controversy and opposition and with the same international image, and, accordingly, with the same general consequences, or make a breakthrough, a kind of leap to a more civilized life, to a more civilized state and society, at least to the level of Eastern European countries. This needs to be answered today and, in the form of a detailed and coherent country-wide development programme for Ukraine, a program that would become an all-U.S. social treaty, would reanimate and boost the social momentum of 1991, revive people's hopes and expectations and give a strong response to their expectations because of the profound improvement in economic and social conditions, overcoming the shameful phenomenon of poverty, raising the level of democracy, spirituality and morality, strengthening the security of life, the uncompromising fight against clans and corruption, and establishing the right to equalize our view of the world. In other words, a comprehensive, comprehensive vision of the state and prospects of the country needs a development strategy based on a concentration of state ambitions, a total publicization of politics, a refusal to create an artificial system that tends to exist in self - preservation. It's time to give up the ugly practice of building a state for the sake of the state, and, more precisely, the state-builders, when we act reflectively, at the level of spontaneous and mostly late reactions to a situation that is constantly changing. Many plans and programs only usually reflect this condition. Then there will be a clear understanding of where and how we are going, and we will not ask where we are going, even though we are standing in our own field. The implementation by the Supreme Council of its powers in part of the definition of the principles of internal and external policy, the approval of state programmes will be particularly important during this period in view of the upcoming presidential elections. I emphasize: implementation, not just stating the need for this. The existence of clearly defined milestones and orientations will allow the country to be protected from questionable experimentation and the possible shocks associated with it, force politicians to move away from the virtual world and act in the direction of the vectors formed by society. The Ukrainian reality will become less personal and more predictable and predictable. We cannot and do not have the right to give up the fate of people and countries solely to the judgment of individuals who, at the angle of their vision and perception or in the interests of political and financial groups or for their own self-assurance, are turning a state coup on any side of their souls, as the poet has said. [[Applause]] You cannot sacrifice Ukraine in the name of any authority. With this approach, realism will also take up the issue of political reform, the definition of its bearable structures. It will be seen as a necessary and effective tool for implementing Ukraine's development goals, not as a means of satisfying personal, group political interests and ambitions, which, to be acknowledged, is now generally seen as such. Agreed with the President, the Government and the main political forces, based on the positive outcome of the decision to change the Constitution, we must certainly take action. In addition, to justify the time spent in the debate on this subject and to avoid making a mockery. This needs to be done in response to the needs and tasks of the next development of the state and society, not from a specific situation, but from the culinary arrangements for the redistribution of posts when the adoption or blocking of changes to the Constitution or the provocation of early parliamentary elections. President Kuchma’s political system carried out its mission at the most complex and responsible stage of the construction of the state structure. [[Like that definition or not, but it's an age that gets an objective assessment of consent, but it's still a long way from completion.]] Its core resource was a high profile of politics and the personification of responsibility. Today, at a qualitatively new stage, when the task of interior decorating the country, its concentration, as it were, on itself, narrows down the corridor for further progress. And if you add to this that in the context of the main political forces of Ukraine, there are fewer figures that are consistent with the level of mass support, if you believe that sociology, which poses a threat to the shift of emphasis, polarization of the division of society due to the lack of capacity to balance positions, the loss of social control over the country, becomes even more obvious and urgent the problem of political reform, with an emphasis on the parliamentary-presidential republic. Its execution is a hard examination of the professional fitness of the Supreme Council. By supporting it, we can consolidate the political system, release the blocked channels of direct and backward power and society, and guide the overall functioning of all branches of government and civil society institutions. Another caution to be taken into account is the need to abandon the reckless practice of blind copying and mechanically imposing foreign samples on the Ukrainian body. He said that Europe is living by such a political system, and that is how it thrives. Let us not forget our own experiences, traditions, and mentality. For example, today it is beneficial to wrap up the famous Constitution of 1710, which has become an outstanding monument not only to Ukrainian but also to European nationalism. The main theme of this constitutional act is the recognition of the need for higher public dignitaries to listen to the opinion of the people, the ultimate need to address all of the most important problems of social life, the electors of all social groups and groups. A reasonable and fair distribution of powers between branches of power, the possibility of attaching broad ranks to state affairs and the existence of control over their actions of power -- all of this is, in fact, a great achievement of Ukrainian nationalism at the beginning of the 18th century, which we can rightly be proud of in modern Europe. But pride for the actions of our predecessors now imposes a great responsibility, putting the issue of political reform to the fortification of Ukraine's reputation as a state, where that is, I emphasize, a reasonable, just distribution of rights and responsibilities, where power is under the control of the people, and that is why it uses its trust and support. Finally, we must realize that the process of reforming the Basic Law in itself is an objective factor. So it has to be short-lived and effective in essence. The review or refinement of the Constitution should determine the major stages of development, not work for a short result, which we seem to be accustomed to. It is clear that the production of such strategic documents requires a general Ukrainian conversation, the involvement of broad public circles, the mobilization of the intellectual capabilities of the nation, and the ability of politicians to go beyond their own perceptions, the rejection of programming from what has been achieved. Of course, this is to a large extent a difficult job, but we are obliged to do it. We'll get to it anyway. We'd better do it sooner. On the other hand, the Supreme Council will be sentenced all the time to submit to someone and act as a bride who is always responsible for everything. A test to match our positions with the increased new requirements will be a joint effort with the government to shape the 2004 budget. It is greatly complicated by the situation in the APC and in the food market, which, more than ever, requires the support of the President of Ukraine, the reconciliation of the position of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers, the local authorities, and a clear definition of priorities. You can talk as much about economic distortions as you can talk about, the lack of significant changes being issued for stability, but the state budget at its current scale is our national shame and a concentrated assessment of the effectiveness of all power. At this rate of growth, let's say today's level of Poland is 35-40 years from now. Here's the European perspective. The question for us is to make a complete and comprehensive inventory of national wealth, I mean at least what's left. Step out of the development budget. [[Applause]] Create an effective socio-economic system, in the strictest terms to get the country out of poverty. Of course, decisions should be made unrestrainedly to fill the income portion of the budget, to strengthen the enforcement of laws. And here, too, we do a lot of work, and we need to make responsible conclusions. But no less, perhaps more urgent, simply a pressing need is to put the country in strict order. The end of the systematic and complete dissipation of it, open and hidden both from the bottom and from the top. The observation at all levels of the shadow economy, smuggling and other phenomena of this series is no longer a mere irritation, but simply a hatred of power for its helplessness and unscrupulousness. In fact, the truth is already being viewed as a commodity. [[Applause]] It's one that can only be trusted by a few. So let's make these decisions and make these decisions: consistently transparent and democratic steps that would make us clear that we are an honest country. Let's overcome the terrible disease that has struck the political system with metastases, it's not true and false, like the norms of political life, the norms of the relationship between parties, the state and man. Let us overcome the gap between declarations and everydayness, as well as the false declarations themselves, the double standards that have become an indispensable ritual of political and economic conduct. Let us stop extorting from human souls and hearts their eternal notions of honor, dignity, and justice. Dear National Deputies! The specifics of the 4th session require us to focus on a number of factors, like the recent or unaccounted for, were not traditionally problematic and brake to the country, or were on the periphery or were treated too simplistic and inadequately. At the same time, their political subtext will move ever closer to elections. First of all, ignoring and distorting such a powerful resource for new development as the past. As we consider it, largely through the prism of complete statelessness, unlightly tragic fate, injustice, and suffering, we increase the deficit of historical memory, and then the sense of political inferiority, oppression of national dignity, and patriotism are subservient. Not least for this reason, Ukraine is not everyone, not everywhere, nor always perceived as a full - fledged state, let alone a national central plan. And in many ways, this is precisely why they try to keep it at the threshold of the European house. It's not a secret that's looking at us with Russia's eyes, it's now with Polish eyes. It dominates the perception of the country as a state with no serious signs of completion of the transition period. Here, I think it would be logical to turn to another important point. Since 1991, the Western world has taken Ukraine from the few post - Soviet republics to the undeniably defeated. Although we did not feel that way and tried to act on the international arena according to the concept of equality. However, the winners of the interior did not agree. Without meeting our entire set of requirements. Formally, in Ukraine, it was possible to state its variant of development, such as Chinese. We have chosen, as we have suggested, the speedy implementation of market reforms and democratization. For various reasons, however, this road has proved to be complex, much less successful with the results known today. Moreover, Ukraine has not received any tangible assistance, such as Poland, which has been written down by the giant external debt or the Baltic country, which has been granted carte blanche to join the European Union. In such a situation, the West felt cheated. Hence the disappointed grades, the desire to push, push, force. In response, the same reaction, insults, misunderstandings, confusion and even opposition. In addition, another approach follows. Since Ukraine has an extremely important geostrategic and other potential, it needs to be provided and maintained. The simplest thing to do is to have an amorphous face. Simply put, by practicing philosophy and the practice of a period of colonialism. To be honest, such processes have become possible in many ways because of the actions of mainstream politicians and political forces and us. There's no truth, kids. We never got rid of the province's complex, to seek the support of the patrons, first of all, outside Ukraine, not within our own people, and to put our opponents in as black a tone as possible. Most of the time, we say what they want us to say to please each other. We're eager to catch any movement in our direction. That's the way it always works. We're balling each other to get spotted, and the country's hurting. Who will respect her if she is not being treated by national dignitaries? So it's no wonder you can hear from their mouths even this: Ukraine behaves as it is allowed, considering that it behaves badly, allowing it much. If we follow such a political logic, we should also ask permission to breathe. History knows attempts to rely on all possible international combinations and factors — Moscow, Lithuania, Poland, Sweden, Turkey, Crimea. Now Russia, the United States, Poland, but it is essential that the lines be mutually exclusive - either East or West. Despite the fact that people require their attitude and behavior, they require a common format of plans and, above all, actions to create a decent life. We will never be viewed as allies, but as vassals. We need to move away from these schemes, overcome the underageness of the Ukrainian nation and Ukrainian politics, create new forms and guarantees of national life, and, figuratively speaking, return to Ukraine. Ukraine is such a great state, both geographically and historically, that it can claim the role of Europe, provided that we realize it and want it, if we can overcome the gap between the country's enormous capabilities and the weaknesses of politics and politics. And this is where John Bagrian's words are asked: "The orientations need the elderly, the blind and the lost, and the monkeys. The only great Ukrainian poet, Taras Shevchenko, was no one or anyone but his own idea and purpose, which the Ukrainian people wanted to lead." End of quote. Among the foreign policy aspects that will remain in the area of increased attention to Parliament, there is likely to be issues of the integration policy of the state, the steps that have recently been taken in this direction, all the more so as to predict their growing impact on internal policy. Therefore, it is important to act so that party approaches, personal visions, or other aspects do not outweigh the interests of the country and are not harmed at the same time. The main thing is to build a line peacefully on the basis of real economic calculations, complementing them with political and geostrategic timetables. If there is no economic interest in integration based on high technology, all projects will sooner or later remain just paper. By the way, in Africa, free trade zones and common markets are being declared and their headquarters are being created. But the economies of these countries are not complementary but repulsive. Dear colleagues! Perhaps for obvious reasons, we do not speak publicly about Ukraine’s politically, socially, culturally, and religiously divided statehood today, although this is an obvious fact, which should be complemented by urgent adequate measures, including on the part of the Supreme Council for the cementing of society. In the main, we need to break the wrong practice by which the state, which is the personification of power, is the organizer and instigator of all processes, and society is excluded from production, and more from politics. As a result, widening the gap between people and the state, at least because the latter by nature cannot accept radical change, transformation gives priority, especially at the stage of its creation, to political programs, delaying the resolution of social problems. In fact, it has always been the historical experience of Achilles ’ fifth Ukrainian practice. Now there is a very dangerous kind of social contract -- mutual imitation of mutual loyalty in the absence of it between people and the state, and actually came to the threshold of incomprehensible misunderstanding and not in the sense of denial of independence, but the lack of acceptance of representatives of all branches of government that act in general inadequately to the challenges of time. If we fail to recognize our responsibility for such a state of affairs, it will mean that we have no responsibility at all, nor do we understand that the identification of a state with power deepens the negative image of Ukraine. Therefore, the central tasks of the Supreme Council must be addressed by decisions and practical measures towards the development of civil society, by filling the real content of the Constitution’s central provisions, by bringing the people sovereignty and the sole source of authority and exercising authority directly. The state must be deprived of regulatory and supervisory functions in areas where a society is self - control. So far, the present structure sees civil society as a challenge and a danger to itself, although its existence, in addition to everything else, is a condition for the state itself, especially because in the transitional states one of the most important functions of civil society is to maintain social conflicts within a civilized framework. What would it take to do about it? First, to significantly strengthen the mobilization and responsibility of power, to initiate a dialogue that is currently being simulated by both sides, as well as the work of many civil society institutions, to stimulate people's interest in social processes, to involve them; to restore the influence and influence of public opinion, to raise the level of debate, to bring back to an active social and political life an intelligence that is actually displaced from it, and to stand on the outside, confirming the same thing: to fight for freedom in general is much simpler and more prestigious than for freedom of practical creation. To focus on education, science, and culture, whose current state gives us the prospect of rapid de-intellectualization of society. After all, the state of intelligence in Ukraine is already reflected in media, culture, everyday life, and language. They don't contribute to raising the political culture, and then to a controversial culture of society, social, political and mass media opposition. You can't think of it as acceptable, let alone civilized, a situation where the position of a television channel or a newspaper is another direction of a particular group. From this kind of campaigning and processing, it's wriggling with mud, spiced with cynicism, insolence and permissiveness of a pattern of the sad 30s. Although they clearly fall out of the ranks of all the other media, who, by rejecting the offer of patronage, are desperate for freedom of speech and journalistic independence. We can't make a more or less appropriate decision to put at least some kind of insurrection on it. How, then, are we going to protect social interests, ensure transparency and objectivity, guarantee the independence of the media, and freedom of speech?Oh, my God! Let's move away from consumerism to democracy, let's stop giving preference to slogans over principles, benefits of ethics, yielding for political accounting. And on the other hand, it is an urgent need to bridge the gap between people and society, on the one hand, party structures and political elites on the other. In general, their immatureness, their dissension, their isolation from real social needs are evident. But otherwise, it is not possible for a branch to live by its laws, to use its understanding of honor and conscience, even educational institutions for its children. When such a quality of Ukrainian character as family is distorted to a level of clanry that is like a cancerous tumor that impresses the entire Ukrainian body. When we have representatives of Europe's wealthiest people, but they're not in a hurry to become normal European capitalists, to invest in the national economy. When relationships are built on feudal principles: a patron client, a personal commitment to family and agriculture. When a modern political elite is mostly a closed club, where rotations take place largely on the principle of Kievcentrism, when modern oligarchs dominate power and opposition, when most of the new parties, of course, parliamentary parties, I don't mean, are sort of cultural political, virtual structures with their assigned to them, mostly by the trade mark and the thin expanse of migrant activists, for whom participation in labor parties, earnings. Much of this can be removed by adopting a civilised law on elections to the Supreme Council and local self-government, stressing, civilized, one that does not preserve the present status quo, does not give indulgence to an indefinite presence in power to the same persons, but incites, civilizedly incited, political structure and once again civilised political structure, the building of the country's political system, arouses the public activity of people so that politics can be created in general and for the Ukrainian community. Otherwise, we will continue to iron out Samuelenko's words: "Every furnace in Ukraine is a fortress strong, there are patriots on the chateau." Otherwise, we will continue to suck ourselves up, drain ourselves with observations and conversations, reminding us of windmills that wave their wings forever but can never fly off. The important meeting, today’s session, will be distinguished by the number of bills proposed for consideration, almost 900, or more than 20 per plenary day. About a third of these include two committees: finance and banking and economic policy and governance, property and investment. In view of this array, we need, together with the Cabinet of Ministers, to separate systems and basic bills, to ensure that they are prepared, reconciled, passed through Parliament at all stages until the President's signing in the green street regime. This is also required by the fact that 28 laws adopted in the third session or 1 out of every 10 are made by the head of state. The President, the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers have to cooperate, which is why we have every reason, not to compete, not dictate to one another, but to act consistently in the corridor of our powers. At the same time, there is a need to continue working together to develop a legislative framework, taking into account the country's forward-looking plans and challenges. Obviously, serious challenges from international law, such as the presence of the Ukrainian military contingent in Iraq and the participation at the level of international temporary rule in its reconstruction, should be expected soon. At the same time, it is vital that we move away from the wrong practice of writing laws under ourselves, or that we issue laws at our very best, with an infinite way of making endless changes and additions to existing legislation. We've got to stop this itch from breaking the laws. You can't help but notice the increasing attempts, so you can have the legal coverage of one or the other. Such habits, such psychology, such a vision of the role and purpose of parliament should be rejected decisively and irrevocably. I dare to address the question of whether the Conciliation Board should be given certain powers, such as the example of the former Presidium for the deployment of the Supreme Council, as well as the increase in the number of advisory staff for each national deputy. To my conviction, the presence of two almost balanced forces in Parliament today is of great stability. This balance is the basis for stability in the country, balanced compromises rather than forced decisions, for failure to take sides. To make the most of this kind of use of our reality, we need to give up antagonism in our relationship. Because antagonism makes it easier to earn political capital, but tolerance makes it easier to reach understanding. Because there are differences between nations that are divided into different positions of modern - day problems. In our eyes, Europe is being sewn together, and we are all the more destined to overcome opposition and confrontation in the middle of our own country. Only individuals are able to conduct such a line. Let's demonstrate that we are. To that end, the parliamentary majority must be fully aware of their assignment and not try to satisfy everyone, be comfortable for everyone, otherwise avoid risk, not satisfy anyone or be strong in anything. Convinced, the factions and groups of the majority cannot, should not, and will not work at the call. Instead, the opposition should not live simply on suspicion and a permanent, exhausting country and politicians themselves. We need to take a risk and work harder at a climate of public trust and harmony. Politics is said to be a beautiful game and that its actors behind the scenes meet as best friends. Let's do this directly in the Supreme Council. Let's build a relationship with the government. In turn, I look forward very much to your well-respected colleagues, to the consolidated support of their actions, which are aimed exclusively and only at Parliament being a Parliament. So that we do not fight so much for the right to be him, but become him. That the Supreme Council of Ukraine be fully in line with its high calling and appointment. Today, we have every reason to pursue the noble national idea of our national obligation, formed by Michael Gruszewski. The circumstances have come to the point that great tasks and achievements have become possible for us, that we can create not only a free, independent Ukraine, but also Ukraine a great one. Welcome to the beginning of the 4th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-02-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! During the intersessional period, a group of national deputies for their active participation in legislative activities, as well as the fact that they had round dates in their lives, have been awarded honorary credentials and credentials by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Allow me, according to the tradition, to give them these marks.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-02-m0.u5	For the benefit of the Ukrainian people in contributing to the establishment of an independent state, the development of democracy and a significant personal contribution to the legislative work of the Ukrainian Parliament, to the award of the National Deputies of Ukraine with the Honorary Literacy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Bajsarov Leonid Volodymyrovich, head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex of Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security; Bondarenko Grigory Ivanovich, member of the Committee on Budget Affairs; Bronnikov Vladimir Kostjanović, head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Vasadze Tariel Shakrovič, member of the Committee on Finance and Banking; Klimov Leonid Mihajlovich, member of the Committee on Finance and Banking; Litvin Vadim Valentinović, Secretary of the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security; Manchulenka Georgia Manuilovich, Secretary of the Committee on National Security and Defence; Matvijeva Vladimir Josephovich, Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment; Matthew Valentin Grigorovovich, Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputate Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Matvienka Anatolia Sergiyovich is head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[Applause]] Melnik Mikola Eutychiyovich is the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. [[Applause]] Wethouse Anatolia Alexiyovich is a member of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. Polanic Mikhail Mikhailovich is a member of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. [[Applause]] Staszewski Stanislav Telisforovich is head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. [[Applause]] Graft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of Bespalo Boris Jakovič, Secretary of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[Applause]] King Viktor Mikolaiovich is the deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs. [[Applause]] Sonchenko Sergey Grigorovich is the deputy head of the Committee for Legislative Security.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-02-m0.u6	Honorable national MPs, and now let us once again welcome all our fellow workers with rewards, and wish them health and fruitful legislative activity. [[Applause]] [[Singing Chorus]] Please sit down. Dear colleagues, before the end of the third session, we approved a calendar plan for today’s session. You've been given it. According to the calendar plan by the end of this week, we have work on committees, factions and groups. You are given a draft order of the fourth session and a draft schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the following week, which the Conciliation Council considered yesterday and instructed the committees to work carefully and submit their proposals for generalization by Thursday. People’s deputies, committee leaders, groups, and factions are requested to do this work. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. The next plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 10 a.m. on 9 September.
