ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:01:12]] Registered -417 There are 417 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague Sergio Vasilovich Burjak. Let's welcome him on his birthday, we wish him every success. Dear National Deputies! On March 31, 2003, the Central Election Commission recognized the elected and registered Chechel Mikola Josipovich as Ukrainian national deputy in a multi-mandom constituency constituency from the political party block "Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", in accordance with article 79 of the Ukrainian Constitution, before the entry into office of the national MPs, they take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In order to make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of Ukraine, Chechel Mikola Josipovich, is invited. Mikola Josephovich, is it? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u2	I, Czechel Mikola Josephovich, pledge allegiance to Ukraine, commit myself to all my actions to defend the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u3	Yes, welcome, Mikolo Josephovich, the Supreme Council wishes you success. Happy birthday. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies and Article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform of the entry of Ukrainian national deputies Stanislav Telisforovich into the political party of industrialists and entrepreneurs and "Trudova Ukraine". Nikola Josephovich's steel to the MP's "Our Ukraine" faction. I am also informed that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Larina Sergio Mikolaiovich, has been elected as the authorised representative of the Ukrainian delegation. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 On Tuesday we have 45 minutes to announce statements, statements, queries and messages from factions. I'd like to ask the factions and groups to submit their statements, and in the meantime, I'll announce the parliamentary requests that have come. Enquiries were made by the Ukrainian National Deputies Anatolia Nastawayka to the President of Ukraine regarding the inability of Ukrainian Justice Minister Lavrinovich and his executive service to execute the decision to bring alimony in favor of John’s disabled group II, who raises two young daughters from John’s, who abandoned him and the children. I'm voting on support for the request. We need at least one third. [[10:05:04]] For-144 The decision is not taken. Yes, the National Deputy Lechchenka to the Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine Kravchenk on the correctness of paying taxes by individual entrepreneurial structures. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:36]] For 118 Decision taken. Peter Toloczka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the garden of Paul Chubinsky, author of the words of the State Anthem, and for the creation of a memorial museum. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:11]] For 116 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the cessation of violations of the rights of more than three million citizens and victims of the Chernobyl disaster, illegal reduction in their payment of relief, compensation, pensions as a result of the adoption by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of Criminal Decree No. 836 of 26.07. 96 on compensation payments to persons affected by the Chernobyl disaster. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:05]] For-167 Decision taken. National Deputy Aniszczuk to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the provision of full funding in the field of education and the restoration of the actions of individual legislative acts of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:40]] For-137 Decision taken. National Deputy Hennady Rudenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the warning of a possible shadow scheme for the privatization of public holding companies' shares. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:13]] For-96 Decision taken. Petra Toloczka to the head of Montenegro’s district administration, Melniczuk, for the provision of telecasts and for the construction of a hard-covered road in a village of the city type Lubichi. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:48]] For 111 Decision taken. National Deputy of Zagreb to the head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine for providing information on financial results from normal activities to regional taxes, January and November 2002. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:20]] For 109 Decision taken. National Deputy Oneschuk to the head of the High Council of Justice on the abuse of power by the judiciary as deputy to the head of the Biljevov District Court of Odessa District of Olijnik and Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Winnick district of Nikushini. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:57]] For 122 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to ensure the recording of the implementation of the Ukrainian National Anthem and the transmission of records to the authorities of the Ukrainian State. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:29]] For-126 Decision taken. Anatolia Átnajka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the delay in investigating the criminal case by the Prosecutor's Office of the Herson District on the murder of the citizen Levkovets Tetjana Volodymyrna. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:58]] For the 120th. Decision taken. Anatolia Átovajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the assistance of the Jenokiev Training and Production Company of the Blind Ukrainian Association. I'll bet on the vote on the request. [[10:11:26]] For-143 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to prevent the dissolution of state property in particular large amounts of VAT "Dashukovski Bentoliti", artificially proving an enterprise of strategic importance for the economy and security of the state to bankruptcy and bankruptcy. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:14]] For 131 Decision taken. Mary Markusz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the granting of the village of Ganichi Tachiv district of Zakarpatsk to the status of the mountain settlement. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:44]] For the 120th. Decision taken. Alexander Goodima to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the failure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to respond to the use of Russian by diplomatic missions. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:12]] For 114 Decision taken. Gregory Bondarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the facts of the formal actions of the State Property Fund regarding the effective use of public property objects. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:41]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Dmitry Rudkowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on issues of social protection for victims of the CHAES accident. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:09]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Maria Markusz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Bank of Ukraine, regarding the return to the religious community of the village of Shiroy Lug of the Tachiv region of the funds that were at the expense of the Bank of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:39]] For 121 Decision taken. Mikoli Noshchenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the purpose of delaying the preparation of investment projects implemented at the expense of the 2003 State Budget, as proposed by the Ukrainian National Deputies. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:13]] For-94 Decision taken. Valentina Savitsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the repair of the canvas and bridge across the Kyiv-Chop Motorway in Novograd-Volinski Žitomirsk region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:44]] For-96 Decision taken. Dmitry Rudkovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine in the absence of a response to a parliamentary request regarding the situation at the Biotzerkow tire plant "Rosava". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:14]] For 116 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the Kyrovograd Regional Centre for Children and Youth. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:41]] For 112 Decision taken. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the transmission by the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine to commercial television channels of the rights to broadcast and broadcast films created on the national cinema of the name Duženka. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:15]] For-147 Decision taken. Mikoli Pisocki to Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing an immediate capital repair of a number of emergency facilities in Lugansk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:43]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Raisie Bogatyrov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the cessation of the closure of the 60-year-old mine of the Soviet Ukraine holding company Donugil and the repayment of debts to miners. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:16]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Stanislava Nikolayenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the government's unsatisfactory actions to help farmers with the loss of their crops. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:49]] For-153 Decision taken. Mikoli Rudzkowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on familiarizing the Ukrainian national deputies with the agreements signed between Ukraine and members of the World Trade Organization, such as the Protocol on Access to the Markets in Goods and Services. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:24]] For 155 Decision taken. Oleg Humenyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the 60th anniversary of the Molotkov tragedy of the Ternopil region, where in April 1943 the occupied village and its 617 inhabitants were completely burned. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:56]] For-152. Decision taken. People's Deputies Groups: Alexiyuk, Shirko, Assadchev - to the Attorney General of Ukraine - on some of the issues of the sale of property at underpriced prices and the unreasonable use of VAT funds by the State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine, 100 per cent of the shares of which belong to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:35]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Paul Silent to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Dmitry Tobacco on the situation surrounding the Poltava District Library for Children and Youth of the Name Panas Mirny. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:05]] For-90 Decision taken. Gregory Bondarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for carrying out counter-productive repairs at the village's Szczerbakov water shelter. Desert of the Voddar district of Kyiv region I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:34]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Paul Mouchcana to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of the debt on salary to the employees of the state-owned enterprise ECO-centre of Chernobyl. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:04]] For 105 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, the Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities, the Kyiv City Head on the cessation of the criminal activity of individual officials of the Kiivenergo stockholder company, the withdrawal of double pay for the supply of heat from the population and residential and operational organizations. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:47]] For-129 Decision taken. Georgia Manchulenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for changes in the procedure for granting credit to students in urban and suburban passenger cars and rail transport. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:17]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine in connection with the dissatisfaction with the response to the request for assessment and status of cases in the Open Shareholder Company of the city of Mikolayeva. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:55]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Valery Assadchev to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in connection with the restrictions on the rights of citizens to retirement in accordance with the Law on Scientific and Technological Activities of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:28]] For 111 Decision taken. Leonida Vernigori to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the non-transfer of social security funds to the Pension Fund of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:58]] For 122 Decision taken. Igor Sharov to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in connection with the attack and beating up of the deputy of the Kirovograd City Council of May. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:24]] For-154 Decision taken. Vasil Onopenk to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, on allegations of abuse by officials, internal affairs authorities in the drafting of administrative delinquency protocols. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:00]] For 131 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the unsatisfactory work of searching for a missing resident of the city of Kirovgrad, Alexander Oliynik. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:31]] For 121 Decision taken. Michael Dobkin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the basis of the activities of the Ukrainian Motor Vehicle Insurance Office. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:57]] Z-91 Decision taken. Alexander Turchinov and Oleg Belarus to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Interior of Ukraine in connection with the spread of the newspaper Evening News to compromise the leaders of the opposition. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:30.]] For-167 Decision taken. Victor Pinzenik to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of property rights of employees of the Lviv Telegraph. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:56]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Andrija Polita to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the activities of the law enforcement authorities involved in the detention of a group of Poltava common commosomol activists who were heading to Kiev for the "Resurrender Ukraine!".. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:29]] For-141 Decision taken. John Tomic is with the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with the beating of an assistant consultant to the Ukrainian National Deputy, the head of the Mikolai District Association of Farmers and Private Landowners, Sergey Kodina. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:01]] For a-117. Decision taken. Mikli Pesocko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the abuse of regressive payments to miners in the city of Krasnodon Lugansk region. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. [[10:29:30.]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Andrija Polita to the Attorney General of Ukraine for bringing to justice those responsible for deliberately proving the Cherka factory "Strammashina" bankrupt. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:03]] For-92 Decision taken. Leonidas Czernovecki to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine, on the problems of organizing medical care for disadvantaged citizens. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:30]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Maria Markus to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy regarding the separation of the first group car from childhood I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:57]] For-136 Decision taken. Vladimir Petrenk to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on the legality of the pension requirements of the Sumskie District Pension Fund for the payment of pension benefits to employees of the Sombud Shareholders Association. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:31:30.]] For the 180. Decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, for a comprehensive survey of rural people living with the Yavorov region and for conducting environmental research on the site in connection with numerous complaints of a significant deterioration in health related to military training, especially with the participation of NATO forces. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:32:12]] For 165 Decision taken. Leonidas Vernigori to the Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine on the provision of personal protection and clothing for workers. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:32:41.]] For-127 Decision taken. Alexander Dove to the Minister of Culture and Arts of Ukraine regarding the financing of the folklore ethnographic expedition, the study of folklore tradition. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:33:10]] For 116 Decision taken. Viacheslava Koval to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine on problems with the quality of the traffic schedule of the suburban electric trains in the direction of Korsten-Kyiv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:33:38]] For 139 Decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski to Ukraine’s Defence Minister for Rural Complaints, who can do so with the Yavorov region. Is that a requisition then going, Vladimir Alexandrovich? Take it off? Take it off because that's the second question. Boris Bespalog to the minister of health of Ukraine regarding the impact of television advertising on human health. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:34:20]] For-137 Decision taken. Valentina Savitsky to Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster of paying off debts to construction organizations and further financing housing for displaced persons in the Novograd Wallinsk region of the Žitomir Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:34:57]] For 101 Decision taken. Boris Bespalogo to the head of the State Tax Administration in Kiev for dissatisfaction with the reply to a parliamentary appeal regarding the enforcement of the Order of the Delhi District Court. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:35:26]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Alexander Dove to the head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine regarding a letter from the National Television Council, a radio talk about licensing the activities of cable operators. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:35:57]] For-125 Decision taken. Valery Desert Head of the State Liaison and Information Committee of Ukraine on the violation of the terms and procedures for licensing cable operators. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:36:26]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Mikoli Tomenka to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of violations of information by President Medvedczuk of Ukraine, National Deputy of Ukraine Surkis, President of the Dynamo Football Club, Igor Surkiss antitrust restrictions on their participation in the establishment of the 1+1 television company, Tet, Alternativa, Shanson Radio Company, Kiev News, "Day 2000", "Business". I'll bet you a vote on that request. [[10:37:14]] For 197 Decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for Rural Complaints, which border the Yavorov region, on military training, especially with the participation of NATO forces, resulting in a deterioration of the human condition and environmental situation in the region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:37:48]] For a hundred and For -156. Decision taken. Honorable National MPs. What about your request? George Manchulenko, with a motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u4	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Cherniewec Region, Ukrainian People's Party, faction "Our Ukraine". Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. My dear colleagues, my request, unfortunately, was not supported, and it concerns the problems of the student youth, particularly the passage and the possibilities of their passage in urban and intercity transport. I think that this problem is relevant, let's say, not just for the Montenegrin region, but for all areas of Ukraine. I think that today, let's say those scholarships that our students receive, they're not enough to be able to travel in intercity transport, and actually, the Cabinet of Ministers decree that works today, it doesn't solve this problem. So I asked the Prime Minister to make appropriate changes to the Cabinet Order. I would ask all my colleagues to support this request. And once again, I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u5	I would like to put to the vote the request of National Deputy George Manchulenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amendments to the procedure for granting credit to students in urban and suburban passenger cars and rail transport. I am voting for this request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. [[10:39:45]] For 219 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to statements, queries, reports, information from factions. I invite Jaroslav Suhogo from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine to prepare for Joseph of Vienna. [[United]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies, the faction of SDPU(O) in the Supreme Council of Ukraine expresses its great concern at the existing plans of the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine for the organization of the purchase of nearby motorway planes. This is a direct threat to the airline industry in Ukraine. Thanks to the efforts of aviation experts with minimal support from the government and with the support of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have managed to preserve the high-tech industry, which is rightly called the visiting card of an industrial state in the world. Since 1997, the aviation industry has grown on average more than 25 percent a year since the year. We have managed to preserve working groups with high technological potential. Aviation or not the only industry in Ukraine, where last year, Ukraine’s independence increased for the first time and increased productivity from year to year. In the past year, more than 35,000 dollars of industrial production have been released for one employee per year, and wages are growing even though they are not what they would like in the field. But at least without delay. The branch is developing dynamically, the transfer of new AN-140 aircraft, and the certification of AN-70s, AN-74s, TC-300 preparations for the production of AN-148s and TU-334s have brought the attention of many specialists to our country. They've drawn the attention of friends and friends, they've bought off-site near-highway planes, and they've launched them into their first internal operation, which means they're going to slow down their own production, and they're actually going to destroy it. This means that more than 80,000 highly qualified experts are being thrown into the street. This means that families, the children of our workers, will suffer. But the aviation sector, along with other high-tech industries, is just the top of that big iceberg, which is the entire industry of Ukraine. And it's hard, and you can't immediately appreciate how it's going to affect the industry to stop one sector. We are confident that trying to get airplanes into the aviation state that can be produced in the state itself is a serious crime. It's a technical crime. Because it will stop the development of a national, advanced competitive sector. This is an economic crime because both income and income are not counted by the labor groups and by the national economy of Ukraine. It's suggested that we buy airplanes on a tax basis, and it's about exemption from VAT, and exemption from payment is essentially a direct grant from our state to foreign producers and owners. We want to believe that the attempt to import foreign technology is not the fault of our esteemed minister, Mr. Kirpa. We know how respectable a person is in a state that actively promotes the development of Ukrainian aircraft. This is another attempt by certain groups, interested people, unfortunately, such attempts were before, and in many ways hindered these attempts stood and stood by the Supreme Council. The faction of SDPU(o) asks the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to urgently influence the situation and prevent the destruction of the aviation industry in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u7	Thank you. From the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine to the presentation, Joseph of Winsky is invited to prepare Balozy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, I am authorized to announce a statement by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council. Ukraine's socialist party, in favour of a complex market economy, has always been against those mechanisms and procedures that were being privatized. As a result of deliberate criminal acts of power, this process was born into what people call "admission." It led to the destruction, the looting of businesses, first of all high - tech and profitable, strategically important to Ukraine. As a result of the parliamentary hearings that took place on February 26 of this year, the cause of the situation was found and the guilty were punished. But what benefit is there for citizens and nations? And whether only the Head of the Bondar State Property Fund should be responsible for the fact that only 6.1 billion had been made available to the State budget for the entire privatization period. In Hungary, 12.8 billion dollars. That's ten times as much. Whole manufacturing complexes are sold for cash, and they are more insolently and cynically stolen. A criminal system has been created to sell better businesses in Ukraine. Today, the captors have approached the most beautiful pieces of state property -- the monopolistic enterprises that hold the economy and the social sphere of the state. The President’s decree on corporate enterprise, the thoughtless practice of transferring entities or individual legal persons and citizens to bankruptcy, and then giving them to specific oligarchs is the technology of today’s high - security robbery. An example of this is the fate of the Nicopolian Ferrospoil Plant. On October 25, 1999, Kabmin ordered 51 per cent of the shares of the company to be transferred to the Dnipropetrov Regional Authority, which in turn handed over its management package to the bank's Credit Dnipro, the founder of which is Interpipe, led by a well-known national deputy named Pinchuck. The results of effective management did not keep us waiting: the net profit in 2002 was only 18 million dollars against the 98th in 2000. The process follows the pattern: people or controlled people value it, their own or controlled write conditions and privatization procedures under the same structure. As a result, one of the most powerful enterprises has no value in moving away from the one pointed to by the presidential team. Socialists consider such things to be a crime. The privatization process must be subject to strict special control. At the same time, privatization of airlines, railways, electricity, gas and oil transport networks, enterprises with strategic and monopoly status, is unacceptable. The only possible way to privatise a large enterprise is through a separate Ukrainian law, provided that the enterprise is sold at a real, close to the world price, at a transparent and open price, and the costs are aimed at increasing the payable demand of the population, i.e. the increase in wages and corresponding pensions, the payment of savings, etc. The Socialist faction supports the conclusions of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatization of February 26 and requires the President of Ukraine and the Government to end the vacchanal with state property and the State Prosecutor with a special investigation into the situation at the Nicopoli Ferro-float plant. And the last. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we spoke for the last time about the price of grain and the bread - price situation. It's stuck and it's not moving. Today, it is unclear who is to blame and who will be responsible for robbing the agribusiness complex in six months. I think once again I ask you, as Head of the Supreme Council, to take the appropriate measures that the Supreme Council should take on this issue, because the situation is going away. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u9	Victor Baloga is invited from the faction "Our Ukraine". Prepare Alexander the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u10	Baloga, electoral district 71, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Forced to address a very important issue that concerns not only each of us but also the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole, its authority as the highest public authority. This is a matter for consideration of parliamentary inquiries, that is, assignments primarily by heads of ministries, committees, and other departments. Because there is every reason to believe that in most cases they are unresponsible. This is confirmed primarily by the requisitions that have been made, since the wrong position of the authorities or the illegal actions of individual officials is protected, which is a gross violation not only of human morals but also of the constitutional rights of citizens. Let me give you another example to confirm. I recently made an application for an animal beating by a group of unknowns in Mukachev, Zacarpatti, the chief physician, the deputy of the Basil Vasyut district council, at which time in the office of work. He was defended by nearly 60 national deputies who addressed the President of Ukraine. The sessions of the Mukativ district councils of Užarov and Mukatov also appealed to law enforcement officers to investigate the case as quickly as possible and to find the buyers and perpetrators of the crime. The motives of such a settlement seem to be understandable. Vasil Vasilovich, as an authoritative, frank and principled person, opposed the new appointment of the head of the regional secretary of the district of Djachenk, whose formerly complicity was the collapse of the economy, the Paradise has shown mistrust. But somehow only three months later, he was released from office, saying that he wanted to. Now, thanks to one-party patrons, he's back in the steering seat. More than a month has passed since then. And it turns out that the investigation of internal affairs has not only been delayed, but it has been a false way of even ignoring the clear political order of the party’s governor. It was not only that in public appearances, law enforcement officials were trying to lead to the common hooliganism that began the search for the perpetrator among the victim’s friends, but also the thought that Vassut himself had arranged to beat himself to death was spreading. In addition, law enforcement officials do not want to see the violent pressure that is being exerted on members of the Paradise. Not to be taken into account are the hooligan actions of individuals with criminal backgrounds who tried for days to disrupt the circuit board’s session, where Mr. Djachenko was once again exposed to mistrust. What I have said gives me reason to judge the facts and to investigate a criminal case, not only from the local authorities of internal affairs but also from the Ministry, since the matter is under control after the parliamentary inquiry. I am far from thinking that Minister Smyrnov has come under the influence of Medvedchuk and has contributed to this development. So once again, I would like to draw your attention to the objectivity of expediting the investigation. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! In response to these facts, and in view of the dozens of other requests made by members of the national parliaments during today’s call, it is urgent to develop a thorough analysis of their unsatisfying response, particularly by the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and to inform the deputies of possible decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u11	Alexander Turchinov of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Prepare Georgie Kruczkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u12	Dear National Deputies! Ukraine faced a real threat to another famine. The disastrous situation in the grain market may soon lead to the dispossessing of bread, the most essential for most basic foods. We have witnessed the lying, incompetence, and criminal nature of today’s authority. Under the patronage of the superior government, there was a huge affair of the brutal looting of the Ukrainian village. The record crop reported by the authorities last year proved to be fictional, the real grain collected at no cost, and it was actually confiscated from agricultural enterprises and sold abroad, and the money received from the criminal rings came into the pockets of a handful of authorities. There is no longer a secret to anyone today, such as the insolent and cynical operation of robbing their own people. Initially, in order to declare the success of the so - called reforms of today’s local regime, it was directed to assign fertility rates, and thus close business structures were guaranteed the monopoly right to sell grains abroad. At the expense of the adjectives, the authorities succeeded in artificially lowering domestic prices and thus securing the profits of grain traders. Unbounded criminal appetites could not even stop the threat of a national disaster. As a result, six months before the new crop in Ukraine, the purchase of grain abroad began, under conditions where there is an urgent need for the formation of bread reserves, taking into account the low forecast rates of the next crop. Ukraine faced the threat of famine and famine. In a sense of panic, the authorities plan to correct the situation urgently. But not at the expense of the perpetrators of the crisis, but again at the expense of their own people. In particular, buying bread abroad at high prices will result in a significant increase in bread and the redistribution of budgetary expenses and a corresponding underfunding of much of the articles. At the same time, there is an urgent search for "shooters" on which you could translate all responsibility for what you did, although it is clear to everyone that the direct fault of the crisis lies with President Kuchma and with the head of his regional administration. The faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, claims that the critical situation in the grain market was not caused by the mistakes and errors of individual agrarian officials, but was the result of systematic actions by the authorities aimed at enriching the authorities at the expense of the looting of their own people. Our faction calls upon national MPs who claim to be supporters of the current regime. Note with what ease and with the slightest remorse the authorities are willing to sacrifice with faithful frames! The arrest of former Deputy Prime Minister Leonid Kozachenko, who was the only obedient perpetrator of the criminal plan, indicates that the regime led by President Kuchma is ready -- I'm finishing -- to go over any one of you, Your Honor's colleagues, for your own preservation. We demand the immediate establishment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry to investigate and punish the real perpetrators of a criminal affair. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u13	Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov is invited to speak with a statement from the Communist faction. Get ready for Bundurka. Bandoons.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, present! Dear compatriots! According to media reports, U.S. President Bush named Ukraine among the eight countries that joined the so-called anti-Iraq coalition. He confirmed this statement and the American ambassador in Ukraine, expressing satisfaction that the Ukrainian authorities, as she reported, consider the Ukrainian RXB battalion in the Persian Gulf to contribute to the Iraqi armament coalition. These statements clearly differ from the assurances given to us by the President of Ukraine, President Kuchma of the materials concerning the deployment of the battalion to Kuwait and which have been announced by the high officials from this rostrum. However, neither the President nor the government nor the U.S.U.S.A. claims were refuted. Minister Zlenko's "delicate" statement to the media about what I quote: "We tend to take such an assessment into account by the American side of our position solely as the U.S. view of the mission of Ukraine in the efforts of members of the international community to resolve the situation around Iraq can be interpreted as anything." [[in quotes]] It's nothing more than a verbal equilibrist, the purpose of which is to hide the truth of the matter. You can understand, of course, the situation in which the minister came after President Kuchma put the European choice first among the priorities of Ukraine, but the strategic partnership with the United States, a state that has committed aggression against the sovereign country of Iraq, and is now destroying it in the eyes of the entire world, the Iraqi people. But the interests of Ukraine, not of President Kuchma, are the responsibility of protecting the security of our people. There was no reaction to the political leadership of foreign policy and to Ambassador Carlos Pasqueal's repeated statement, which the media reported said. "Both the Presidential Administration and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine have given us the Ukrainian desire to consider Ukraine a member of the coalition. This was reported to us both here in Kiev and in Washington." The U.S. Ambassador, not the Ukrainian authorities, also reported that the U.S. had taken on the financing of the expenses associated with the deployment of the Ukrainian Special Battalion to Kuwait. I'll say it again, but I'll remind you, music is ordered by the payer. In this regard, our people ask: Has the political leadership of Ukraine really claimed to the Americans the desire to want to send our battalion to Kuwait, as evidenced by joining the anti - Iraqi coalition? Why do we, as parliamentarians, learn about such serious political steps, if they have been taken, not from the President, not from the government or from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but from the ambassador of the foreign state? What is this attitude toward one’s own people? If what the U.S. President and the U.S. ambassador have said doesn't match the reality, why doesn't the Ukrainian authorities make it clear? Please consider this a formal request to the President of Ukraine and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. On behalf of the Communist faction, I demand to invite the Foreign Minister and the representative of the Presidential Administration to the Supreme Council and request explanations from them. Members of the faction, not the committee, as misreported today, especially the Ukrainian Radio, have no right to such an initiative. They are initiating a procedure for repealing the decision on the adoption of a law on the deployment of a special battalion to Kuwait, approved by the Supreme Council on the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the law on the order of deployment of troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other States. In this regard, a group of national deputies also refer to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine with appropriate submission. As the head of the committee of profile, as the national deputy, I tried not to allow violations, and I made specific suggestions to the Supreme Council, but they were ignored. I was not even recognized as necessary to negotiate. This is because it is a matter of extreme national importance, a real threat to the security of the State, the life and health of our fellow countrymen. How do you understand that?Oh, my God! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u15	The word is given to Bandur to Alexander Markovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u16	The Honourable Head, honourable national deputies, today there are twelve laws in place in Ukraine that regulate the provision of social protection and social assistance to those citizens who need such measures by the state. I'm not going to recalculate these laws. I wanted to stop at the other one. That even this modest social assistance and social protection, which certainly does not provide for the needs of low-income families, disabled families, or many children, or sick people who are burdened with such a procedure that in order to obtain social protection or social assistance, you sometimes have to collect dozens of different kinds of help, and I know when a disabled person needs to collect 22 aids to get social assistance. Of course, periodic confirmation of compliance with the principles of social assistance is necessary. Because a sick person can recover and a poor person can increase his income. However, as in every case, we need to be smart about any procedure, including the constant confirmation of the status of the disabled. If a person does not have a leg or is without an eye, whether he has a second leg, even if each day he brings in evidence that he is a disabled person. Such help is needed every time to confirm your disability to the hopeless person who jumps on that foot and collects help on the prosthetics, often at different ends of the district or city. In view of the state of bureaucracy on the ground, the gathering of such aids is turned into human abuse. The Democratic Initiative faction suggests that the government simplify the procedure for confirming the grounds for social assistance and social protection. Not every citizen of a potential fraud or criminal should be seen as trying to deceive the state and get an extra purse. It's the other way around. Once again, I stress that the mechanisms are so bureaucratic that actually getting this help is a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u17	Alexander Borzich is invited from the faction of Ukraine’s Agrarian Party. Get ready for Mhitarian.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u18	Agrarian party. Declaration by the faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine and the political party of Ukraine. The situation in the agro-industry complex, and in particular in the agricultural market, has long been a source of serious concern to us, and we have stated this many times. Today, however, it has gone beyond a clear economic framework and has gained social and political resonance, which has also led to the oppression of the environment around a number of problems and individuals rather than a detailed and thorough analysis and a peaceful and thoughtful solution. We are no less concerned than other political forces with a number of circumstances that have led, firstly, to lower economic performance in economic activity, most agricultural enterprises of different forms of farming from agriculture and agriculture to large-scale and private-rent. It's different. The parliamentary faction and the Ukrainian Agrarian Party also do not clearly appreciate the current developments related to the grain market and the direct involvement of former Deputy Prime Minister Kozachenko. We're not inclined to jump to any harshly accused conclusion on the one hand, nor to completely dismiss any charges on the other. The premature, preconceived interpretation of facts and comments to them, the juggling of figures does not add any aspect of authority, nor does it clarify the situation in the legal plane as a whole. More than that, it does not add a similar development to the events of authority and to our state, which seeks to find ways into the world’s grain markets in conditions of serious competition. That is why we are against another loudly declared criminal case becoming more so, and we ask the law enforcement agencies to uphold legal and moral norms. At the same time, this does not take away the responsibility of our faction and party for shaping an agrarian policy strategy for the future. We are already working with the government on strategic projects, such as the first national agrarian doctrine, calculated at least by 10 years. Secondly, the adoption at this session of a series of priority laws, such as support for the production and development of the market in agriculture, amending the Ukraine Act on Added Cost Taxes, extending the terms of tax taxation, amending certain Ukrainian legislation on regulation of activities in the agricultural sector, continuing the operation of fixed agricultural taxes, and others. Third, the government concept of export and import policy and the development of the internal food market, which was planned by 2010. The faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine invites all who care about the village to join in this cooperation. With regard to the present situation in the agricultural field, and more specifically, in the spring field, it is extremely complex and serious. A significant death of the winter is expected, the largest in the last decade, which requires the filling of the grain wedge, such as transport, large material, financial, and human resources. In this regard, the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party proposes that the government take an urgent decision to address the crisis that has arisen in the agricultural sector. Today, where future bread is being formed, specific assistance is expected from political forces, legislators, government structures, and commercial financial organizations. We remind everyone that the market starts in the field, primarily the peasant depends on the food basket content of each of us and the food security of Ukraine as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u19	An Enver Mhitarian is invited from the faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs and from "Trudova Ukraine". Prepare Verethennikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u20	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! On Thursday, we have to vote on the first reading of the draft law on the State Migration Service in Ukraine, registration number 2446. This law is necessary and important because two Ukrainian borders will become essentially the eastern border of the European Union within a year, and flows of illegal migrants from Asia, the Middle East, countries of Europe without special barriers across Russia, Belarus, and Mladov will sit on Ukrainian territory. This will create some problems in Ukraine and will require considerable financial costs. And Ukraine and the European Union have not made many proposals to participate financially in addressing these problems. Perhaps if, for at least a month, we weaken the border of Western Europe and illegal migrants spill into it, the European Union will find money quickly. But it will be an uncivilized method. Therefore, we remain active only in our own legislative field, as we still have problems with internal migration, as well as the problems of five million Ukrainians now working legally or illegally outside the country. The drafters propose that migration problems be resolved by the new executive body. But there is a certain discrepancy in the proposed law, I think. For example, the explanatory note to the draft law and the listing of the functions of the service, article 7, refer to civil legal control and regulation of the scope of migration law. At the same time, articles 9 and 10 include a number of direct functions of law enforcement agencies, ranging from the personal inspection of migrants and the search of premises to the right to store, carry and use weapons. In fact, it is the establishment of a new force agency. In fact, part of the current competence of the Ministry of the Interior, Goskomborder and the State Committee for Nationality and Migration is transferred to the Migration Service. Maybe it's the right thing to do right now. Then today we must clearly determine whether it is a civil organization or a force structure. It is already crucial to address the issue of coordination of its work with other agencies, as well as the separation of property, including logistics, operational work and the content of irregular migrants. Yes, the law requires some clarification, but respectable colleagues, I am sure that in Thursday's vote, the main stumbling block will not be the above-mentioned questions, but rather the question of what authority of the State will be subordinated to the new structure? We need to be very careful about the economic justification for the establishment of the State immigration service and the monitoring and supervision of its financial activities, so as not to create another bureaucratic apparatus or armed force with uncertain status and to impose insurmountable costs on our already small budget. Therefore, I believe that the bill should be adopted on first reading, As a basis and as a special status of the new service referred to in article 5, let the President of Ukraine by his decree. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u21	And from what faction will you act, the People's Deputy of Verethennikov? The workers are already on the scene. Please, Desert Tenko Valery Pavlovich from the faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I'm reminding you that we have a faction show today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! On March 24, 2003, a second meeting of the Inter-Parliamentary Commission of the Supreme Council and the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation took place in Moscow, attended by members of the Ukrainian National Deputies Commission: Desert Tenko, Hinzburg, Derkac, Dobkin, Zubov, Cassianov, Lapin, Masters, Rybauk and Rudkowski. The commission was also attended by responsible officials of the ministries and departments of the Russian Federation, ambassadors and coworkers of the embassies of Ukraine and Russia in Ukraine. According to a previously agreed procedure, the committee discussed such questions. First. About the state of trade and economic cooperation between Ukraine and the Russian Federation and the parliamentary measures for its further development. The Commission decided to assign the working group to study the normative acts that create direct and indirect barriers to trade between Ukraine and Russia and to propose measures to harmonize and harmonize legislation in this area. Dear National Deputies! Please listen to the numbers I'm going to call. In 1996, Ukraine’s total foreign economic activity accounted for about $32 billion. Forty-eight percent was trade with Russia. In 2002, this 32 billion remained, and work with Russia remained in the order of seventeen percent. So we've practically lost the Russian market in our business, and these are our jobs. The economic development programme between Ukraine and Russia had foreseen 30 billion by 2007. freight. Today it's three times actually less. The second question is about the state of the Free Trade Zone and its legal security. It was decided that, at the level of parliaments, the necessary measures would be taken to harmonize tax, monetary, financial, trade and customs policies. There have also been discussions on ways to form a single economic space, the possibility of synchronizing activities regarding the accession of the World Trade Organization. I can tell you right now that this issue is so dark and unknowable today that it needs further study. The fourth discussed the law on measures dedicated to Russia’s year in Ukraine. We agreed to hold the Ukrainian-Russian Conference "Integration of Ukraine and Russia into European Economic Space" in Moscow, in the Dnipropetrovska International Aviation Forum, in Gorlovka, the Ukrainian-Russian Forum "Ukraine-Russia". I can see that the fifth and the main question, not the main one, but the emotional issue that is now of great concern to the citizens of both countries, is the issue of the regime of the crossing of the Ukrainian-Russian border and the citizens of Russia. I'm done. For this reason, the commission decided to turn to the governments of its own countries, as is known, for reasons of crossing the border. The citizens of Ukraine and Russia are crossing the border today under the agreement of January 16, 97. In accordance with this agreement, citizens of Ukraine and Russia cross a common border without a visa on the basis of documents certifying the person and certifying the nationality of which domestic and foreign passports are applicable, military certificates and birth certificates for minors. Negotiations are under way, and from July 1st she had to enter foreign passports. I think we need to rule that out and we've prepared two MPs on this issue. Applying a new mode. From July 1st, summer vacations will be difficult.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u23	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u24	Ukrainian citizens and we will lose in economic terms. It is true that an agreement on the order of the crossing of the Ukrainian-Russian border between Ukrainian and Russian citizens that intersects in border areas with the order of the intersection. And finally, I want to say that there was a very important question about the acceptance of citizenship by Ukrainian citizens. This issue has also been discussed. I would like to have the right and the right MPs, and whoever is working in this direction, to consider the matter further. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u25	Dear National Deputies! The requests made by factions and MPs are all satisfied. On the subject of the issues that have been raised, I think we will prepare appropriate assignments and referrals. As for the problem of the grain market, I ask the Agrarian Policy Committee, as well as the Committee of Vladimir Romanovich Moisik, to prepare a draft ruling so that we can be on Thursday. [[Ivan Tomić]] prepare proposals, draft a decision so that we can vote on Thursday, perhaps on Friday, to hear the government’s information that is actually happening in the grain market and what the government is going to do in this regard to remedy the situation. No objections? None. Let us turn to Tuesday’s schedule for our meeting. A draft decree on the holding of parliamentary hearings "The reform of the political system in Ukraine" is being announced for consideration. Objectives and conceptual principles of constitutional change." I would like to remind you, honourable national deputies, that we have voted 338 votes in favour of including this issue in the agenda. We now need to take a decision to ensure that we are able to prepare parliamentary hearings. So if I agree with you, I would like to now vote twice: once in a while, we will withdraw from the Rules today and decide to make a decision now and then to take that decision. Is there no objection? I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall. Dear colleagues! Please take your seats. We need to vote on an important document. I put to the vote that the decision on the adoption of the parliamentary hearings on matters of political reform should be made today. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:16:23]] For 275 Decision taken. I am voting on the basis of the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold parliamentary hearings on the reform of the political system in Ukraine: the purpose and conceptual principles of constitutional change. Please vote. [[11:16:53]] For 293 What will be the changes, additions, refinements? You don't? I'm voting on a draft ruling as a whole as a ruling. This is number 3251. Please vote. [[11:17:18]] For 301 For -301. See how well we work. It's been decided. A draft Law on State Migration Services in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. I invite you to report to Alexander Markovich Bandurku. Is there Alexander Markovich? Then, please, co-reporter Hennaday Josephovich Udovenko, until Bandurka comes along. We can do it from the procedure. Please, National Deputy Kravchenko. Turn on the microphone of the national MP Kravchenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u26	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich. That's my question. Who solves the problem of dealing with the short-term issue or not? Right now, we are looking at four bills and then we are going to have to go through a short-term bill. For example, Bill 2072, draft Act on Amendments to the Code on Administrative Offences. A bill that violates articles 2 of the Constitution 41 and 6. Where the police want to sit on top of the courts again, over everyone and so on. We're looking at a reduced procedure. I think let's make this proposal, or we'll look at it in the hall, or we'll take it off the table and we'll look at it in a normal way. I've just seen eight people sign up for this bill. And yet there will be two pros, two against. That's it. I mean, there's not actually going to be a discussion. It's a fateful decision. Because these are 14 million drivers who will be deprived of their rights, violations of the three laws that we have enacted. So I'm asking you to respond to this question somehow.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u27	The point is that, according to the Committees, the Conciliation Board is considering these projects, if they have any observations, then we are transferring them to full consideration or to a reduced procedure. If you have questions, and they already do, I think we can move away here so that all the suggestions and thoughts about this bill can be made. I think we're settling here. Is Alexander Marchenko Bandurka there? Please provide a five-minute interview, an answer to a question in five minutes, the same for the co-rapporteur. Then we will have a discussion, and we will definitely listen to the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u28	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Those global movements and populations, the political and economic processes that are taking place both in Ukraine and around Ukraine, have a significant impact on today's migration situation, both in individual countries and in Ukraine. Today, the migration issues are dealt with by nine different authorities, not counting them, they are known. We suggest that a group of national MPs pass a law on the state migration service in Ukraine that would determine its functions and conduct the basis of its activities. We see a national migration service as a government body whose purpose is to ensure that state policy is implemented in the areas of migration and citizenship and as an executive body subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers centralized. I'm going to say here that in the process of discussing the bill on committees, and six committees have considered and generally support the idea of creating such a service, in parallel with the fact that this occurs both as a self-serving service and as a service that is subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers through the Minister of Interior, i.e. through the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The law defines the main tasks of the State Migration Service, the system of State Migration Services, their status, functions and mandate, and the organization and control of the activities and implementation of the rights of the State Migration Service. We come from the fact that it must be a service that could solve all those issues in the complex, from solving the problem of entry, moving through Ukraine, defining the status of citizenship, the status of refugees, state of stateless persons, foreigners, their legitimate grounds for being in Ukraine and the corresponding legal response in cases of violations of Ukrainian legislation or illegal entry into Ukraine what we call illegal migration. We foresee a number of measures to ensure that the authorities of the State Migration Service operate. In the committee discussion, a whole series of comments have emerged that we adopt when we adopt the law in the first reading, a whole series of provisions that are laid down in the bill that is in the bill, honourable deputies, should be removed from your hands. Why? The bill was drafted prior to the adoption of the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine, with suspended social guarantees and benefits used by law enforcement officials, since there is no law today, we will also remove it from this law. I would ask you, honourable Members, to express yourself and support the bill in the first reading so that we can take your comments into account in the second reading. I repeat that in the process of preparing for the first reading of the 6 committees we have considered, in general, more than half a hundred of us have received comments, the vast majority that should be taken into account because they are right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u29	Thank you, Alexander Markovich. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a question, five minutes. List the names of the national MPs on the board. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[United]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u30	Jaroslav Suhi. The faction of SDPU, the city of Zaporozhye. Alexander Markovich! I have a question to ask in this room of interest to all the majority deputies who today, you know, literally, have sunk into the complaints of people who have no ability to form citizenship or to form documents. This question is of interest to those who are now in line — whether to withdraw from their citizenship or to acquire it. Please tell us, this bill as a whole, as a concept of new approaches to government creation, will it contribute to or alleviate the suffering of those who today are unable to unite with their families or simply solve their human problems?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u31	Thank you, Mr. Jaroslav Mikhailovich. That's the point. Today in Ukraine, according to the data I use, there are almost 550,000 citizens who are waiting for their determination, whether it's confirmation of the status of Ukrainian citizenship, whether it's from past Soviet republics, whether it's the status of refugees from hot spots around the world, whether the citizenship of other states is waiting for confirmation from their countries, or just the status of foreigners. We believe that this law will improve migration work. Today, nine authorities: both the IMF, the Security Service, and the State Security Service, and the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour, and a number of other authorities, deal with these issues. It's when people say that there's a baby with no eyes in the family. We're really trying to simplify and organize the migration determination system for citizens. I've got 2,000, 700 people in the district, border patrol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u32	Please, Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u33	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Alexander Markovich! I also belong to those who generally support your bill and have carefully studied it, and these functions are provided for the State Migration Service. In particular, it provides registration, re-registering and billing of Ukrainian citizens, foreigners, stateless persons, passports and other documents. Hence, as well as other provisions of this law, it follows that this service is actually absorbing what the passport service is doing right now. So confirm or disprove this conclusion. And if that is the case, it is not logical to hide its essence, but to define it as a state passport and migration service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u34	Passport work is just one way to work with citizens. And you can't narrow down the law to one function, Boris Yakovitch, because passport work or registration of natural persons is just one, we'll talk, from the direction of activity. The Migration Service actually predicts, you've noticed correctly, I see that you've read the bill, that it will also be dealing with visa and passport issues. That is why one of the suggestions is to create this body of the State Migration Service in the system of internal affairs bodies, that is, to subordinate the Cabinet of Ministers as a self-serving minister. Because, let's talk, there's already the State Department of Migration and Citizenship, which is part of the IMF. But a redistribution of functions is foreseen in the case of the adoption of such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u35	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u36	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Alexander Markovich, how does the Cabinet of Ministers feel about this bill? If they support, they sign off on the fact that they are unable to coordinate the work of these nine services. And the second question. If the State Migration Service is created, then these nine services will be eliminated or assigned to those services? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u37	Thank you. Well, no one eliminates the IMF, no one eliminates the Security Service or the StateCordon, because there are separate laws about them. But let's say these functions are subtracted, redistributed. If you solve this problem, you've asked a very deep question. Well, as a practitioner, I'd say it won't solve everything, because it's a complex and complex problem of population migration. How does this apply? Well, let's say different: there are those who deny, and someone agrees with the changes, but everyone agrees that these issues should be taken into account at the legislative level. We're getting closer, they say, to the European Union. The borders of the European Union are already passing through our borders with Poland, Slovakia, Hungary. Migration processes are also relevant for relations with Russia or with other neighbors. The law needs to be adopted. I would like to make one point, honourable deputies, in connection with what our colleague asked. We are adopting legislation, and the central authorities of the executive service or the President himself are creating it. That's why we're creating a legal field, and within what limits we're going to talk about, subordination is already, we're going to talk, in the Cabinet of Ministers, and in the President's decree to fill the service itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u38	Andrew Schlell, please, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u39	Alexander Markovich, I'd like to ask you a question. You know, you've already said that this will be transferred from several services and the Ministry of Internal Affairs functions, and the Ukrainian Security Service. I wonder what the budget is? After all, the budget is being allocated to both these areas and the militia, and the Security Service, or these budgets, will be automatically transferred to the Migration Service. And what's the amount of this, please, if you could. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u40	Andry Vasilovich, thank you. There are two approaches. It can be written that the law enters into force on January 1, 2004 and provides for appropriate funds in the state budget, certainly redistributing functions. If we're creating this service on a march, it means that what was envisaged either for the State Department for Migration of Citizenship, or for Mr. Moskal's State Commander, or in other ministries, it should be redistributed within the existing budget or the current one. And we're going to need a minimum of 360 million dollars for this service. Let's talk about it for starters.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u41	National MP Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u42	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Honorable Rapporteur! The fact that these problems really require a solution today is beyond a doubt. The fact that the problem has come to light, something has to be done in this direction, is certainly the same. The question is only one. First. Don't you think that some of the things the law reminds us of, let's say, rent one square meter of the border. It is still possible to develop functions, functionally, so to speak, to deal with this agency with one issue, and that we are now placed at the border to continue to do, so to speak, on the basis of the pattern that we have. Your opinion on this matter. That's the first question. Second question. Structure, after all. An important structure, volume, funding and so on, and so on. Doesn't it seem like we could have tried something on the basis of allowing the existing systems today, so to speak, to say, to write this mechanism out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u43	Thank you. The question is agreed with the State and we're not taking any of them, we're going to talk about the root functions that are assigned to them by law. We don't have any differences with them. The second question is based on an existing structure. There's this proposal, I've already said about what's being created, let's say, self-service, but in the IMF system it's, well let's say, the most or the least painful thing would be to create such a service, because every time we go to a function redistribution there, it's affecting someone's interests and not just the vendettas and the living people.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u44	Alexander Markovich, thank you. Time's up. I invite you to address Hennady Josephovich Widow, head of the committee. Please, Hennady Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u45	Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The question has matured. Ukraine has now become a transit state for illegal migration. And this creates a very big threat to the open border with Russia, a free flow of illegal migrants crossing the border. What's the most dangerous thing? It crosses the entire territory of Ukraine, and in the western border, our famous border guards are holding them back for their money, holding them back, and then asking for extra cash in the district government offices and then deporting them. The question has matured. That's the first one. The other one. The functions of today's passport control, which is migrated to some extent by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, i.e. the Ministry, are, of course, militias. And we, and since we are trying, at least, to claim our intentions, to try to integrate with European structures, we need to adopt European experience into armaments. Where these functions are not part of the police department. The Ministry of Internal Affairs says that in a number of European countries the issue is dealt with by interior ministries, but the functions of interior ministries are completely different. And the creation of such a department is quite relevant, although it's not an easy question -- it's not easy to create a new system now that meets at least European standards. The Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations discussed in detail the bill proposed by Deputy Bandourka and others. We have addressed almost all the ministries and departments involved in this matter, and we have received quite a lot of attention to this bill. the substance of which concerns: the first thing proposed to be excluded from the powers of the State Migration Service, the control and registration functions at the points of entry through the state border to leave it outside the borders. The attitude towards this service of Ukrainian diplomatic officials abroad, we don't have to choose the "little-powerful" ministry of foreign affairs. Confidential cooperation with Ukrainian citizens, foreign and non-citizens -- the U.S.S.A. is involved, the KGB has once done this, let them deal with this. Yes, Sergey Ivanovich? That's right. The rights of fellow workers to the storage, carrying, and use of weapons and special means. There is such an offer, but it must be studied. Whoever was in the United States saw that the first person we were talking to there was a representative of the Migration Service, who was checking our passports and our visa availability. But he's armed. And the military bill for officials of the State Migration Service, as well as the right of civil migration workers to social benefits, including the free use of transport. According to the committee, the comments noted may be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. The committee therefore proposes to adopt the draft Act on the National Migration Service of Ukraine as a basis. And the last. Even today’s discussion testifies to the urgency of the problem. Look, from the faction, a colleague of the Desert Tenko spoke about the problem of crossing the border between Ukraine and Russia. A colleague of the Mhitarians spoke, and he also spoke of the law. So the question is mature and our task is to deal with business with all the problems. The committee, I repeat, proposes this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u46	Yes, thank you, Hennady Josephovich. Dear colleagues! Any questions? Please sign in. On the board, please explain the names of the national MPs. Basil Nadrag is a People's Choice group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u47	Please tell us, as the Lugansk region, which has 800 kilometers of borderline, is a very fundamental phenomenon when relatives travel to Russia or Russia for a day or two. Here's your opinion, this bill and the formalization of this service will help us to find at least one way to say that a person who goes to his relatives for a day or two will not fall within the category of any emigrants or migrants who leave at most. So this situation is going to help us sort it out?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u48	The question of crossing the border in Luhansk, in particular the area, is not regulated by this bill. They are governed by Ukrainian Citizenship Act, Migration Act, Foreign Act and other Ukrainian laws. Question, this bill doesn't impose any restrictions on citizens' cross-checking, it's about who you're talking to today, the citizen of the Luhansk region, at least it should be up to five, up to six, if problems arise, 5-6 ministries, intelligence, he should go to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to the Ministry of Justice -- and whoever there isn't. And now we're going to have one organ, and it's going to regulate all the problems, all the questions. Now, it's not about granting permission to cross citizens of the border, it's about interstate agreements. As far as Russia is concerned, we have an agreement on friendship, cooperation and partnership, and this treaty must be governed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u49	Yes, please, the People's Deputy of Vernigor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u50	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Gennady Josephovich, we are such Ukrainians that we care about, care for, and care for the migrants, and that's all. And what about the seven million of our immigrants who went abroad, and these are the booklets they gave us, you know what they do with them. In addition, these 7 million who have left, you and I have made a commitment that when they return, we will keep them at the expense of those who remain. This arithmetic, I've been to Zakarpatski and Ivano-Frankowsky recently, where everyone else drives and sends money here, which means our dollars are drained, our workforce is drained and our pension and other protection funds are not formed. What are we going to do?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u51	Well, first of all, I absolutely share your concern, and I'm also concerned that our independent state has failed to provide such a level of living for its citizens so that they don't seek employment abroad. It's about Ukrainians, it's about Russians, it's about Jews and a lot of other people. That's the main thing. Today, the main thing for us is to raise the standard of living of the Ukrainian people so that they don't look for this job abroad. The second is that the report initiated by a human rights authority is the first report, and I am glad that it made this report. At least we'll know the problems our citizens face when they work hard, make a penny abroad. Well, their return to the state, to Ukraine, it will enrich Ukraine, because they will come with green dollars or Eurodolars if our famous border guards, customs, tax inspection will not take their throats abroad and confiscate them. That's why this committee, if we make it, we still have one very important point to make: to protect the rights of Ukrainian citizens who cross the border.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u52	Sergei Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u53	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Gennady Yosifovich, I have a question for you as the head of the committee. Please tell me, I am directly under this bill, but indirectly, the question is also related to this bill. I'm going to put it from the point of view of the majors, and I think I'm going to express the opinion of a lot of people. We, the Mayors, have the impression that we are deliberately creating from the side, I mean, States are creating obstacles for those who are outside our country to be granted Ukrainian citizenship today. And these bonds exist one by one. To overcome them to this day, believe me, it's very and very difficult. Do you, as the chairman of the committee, feel that way? And if it doesn't work out, I would very much like you at the committee meeting to consider this very carefully, take a particular person with specific examples and look at what today must be overcome by a citizen of a potential State who wants to become a citizen of Ukraine today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u54	Well, first of all, I want to say that on January 15, last year, the Supreme Council approved a new edition of the Civil Code. And this is a very progressive law that greatly liberalizes and simplifies the process of obtaining Ukrainian citizenship. An example. To obtain Ukrainian citizenship, you need to be informed that you are not a citizen of another state. This applies more to all of Russia. And a man without wealth has to leave Luhansk district, go to Kiev, stand in line at the Russian Embassy, pay $75, get help. We in our law, which you have established, are greatly simplified in our law. A person makes a claim that he wants to acquire Ukrainian citizenship or has no citizenship, writes in a statement, or has already renounced another citizenship, or has renounced another citizenship. Since this help has been provided, this person has been granted a Ukrainian citizen's license and rights, and he is given a year to resolve the issue or not to resolve the issue without citizenship. We've had enough of a citizen's statement. But if a citizen is lying, then he is subject to the Penal Code. Our trouble is, like all other good laws, the Constitution, they're often not implemented. And here's the problem. When the performer is approached in the Paradise Department for Ukrainian citizenship, that's where his problems begin, and that leads to references, which leads to people being caught here at the corner of Gruszewski and Schovkovych. The question is right. And, in fact, the committee has to look somewhere to see how the law on citizenship is being implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u55	Thank you, Gennady Josephovich, time is up. Thank you very much. From the Cabinet of Ministers, please, Hennaday Hennadiovich Moskal, head of the State Committee on Nationalities and Migration. Your position on the proposed project.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u56	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Cabinet of Ministers of the National Migration Service Act has included in the list of priority bills that are in line with the heads of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and are proposed for further consideration at the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 4th call. This brings legislation to European standards under civilian control a number of functions that are being performed today by strong authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the discussion. Please explain the names of the national deputies who have been enrolled. We have 15 minutes to discuss. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin The faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Ivan Mihovich. Please. Is there a Yuri Anatolyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u58	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The questions that we are considering, like all the issues that are being considered here, are certainly very important. Well, I would like to draw your attention today to some of the legal cases that might arise, and I would like to say that every illegal migrant who is being shipped out of Ukraine today is being treated by the state of Ukraine for 5,000 dollars. Count it, please. I would like you to know that in many cities today, illegal immigrants control our markets, control some cities, and are those with whom we have a very serious struggle. We have become an advocate of Europe today, and you understand that very well. Especially after we've been made a neighbour state after the kind of politics we've been running. Dear friends! If you look up. For the text of the law carefully, I want to say that conceptually I am in favour of the law, I thank the National Deputies and Bandurka, and Moses, and Gavrish, and Zadrožno, Kiwalov, Sinchenka for introducing this bill. At the same time, I would like to make such warnings. First. We're creating another weapon formation. We're creating military formation. Right in article 11, you assume that military personnel. obliged officials are on special account of the State Migration Service. We give them personal names. We do not go to Europe where these positions have long been replaced by civilians and are adequately regulated by wages. We also provide legal and social protection for the special composition of the State Migration Service the same as the military at a time when we accept the doctrine now and everything is done by the President's decrees and the Administration today before 150 military personnel are thrown into the streets. I'm saying, and I want to draw your attention to the inadequacies in the maintenance costs of the State Migration Service, which have the costs of developing a material and technical base, will go away with the issuance of relevant documents. I wanted to draw your attention and this is illegal, and I would like to draw attention to the contradictions of the Law on the Sources of Financing for State Authorities, where it is also envisaged. [[Articles 2 and 3]] I'd like to show you that those benefits that we haven't provided to either military or militia personnel, we're recording here today. All of these positions must be excluded from this law. And it's only going to be through the government budget of Ukraine, or we're going to create another food shop for officials. In general, I believe that this law should be adopted in the first reading. Then on the second reading, all of these things have to be removed by clearly calculating how much the law will cost -- I'm finishing -- and asking the question so that the law can only enter from 2004, not from the time of publication, because the government budget and the changes to the State Budget Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u59	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction. Get ready for Chicken George Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u60	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Dear colleagues, guests, voters, I also supported this bill on the committee, because in Ukraine, we really need a national migration service. This is particularly evident in Zakarpat and other border customs areas, and the police have to have a lot of trouble with the unsolicited guests from the east who are approaching us. On the other hand, there is no substantive study of migration flows, analysis, control, legal protection of our compatriots, who, because of unemployment and lack of trust, are forced to engage in violence and discrimination. The bill of consideration, indeed, well - worked, provides answers to many questions that need to be addressed. The creation of a migration service is based on legal, organizational, technical, and so forth. Nevertheless, the document raises legitimate doubts and fears to experts, particularly the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the public. Is such a person necessary, urgent? Why is there tremendous haste in his preparation and advancement? Are all its consequences predicted? The authors believe that it belongs to the priority areas of adaptation of Ukrainian legislation to European legislation. I'll do it. This is provided for in Chapter 15 of the Ukrainian Integration Programme since 14 September 2000 by Chapter 1 of the EU plan of implementation of the EU action plan in the field of justice and internal affairs of Ukraine with other documents that tell us what to do when and how to do. That is, we have a situation similar to the enforcement of the Refugees Act, which Western Europe does not want to adopt, preferring to create a specific sanitary zone in Ukraine. What should we do? The bill is appropriate to consider, but without haste, it is considered. In particular, I propose: firstly, to clarify in article five what special status this central executive authority will have; secondly, to narrow down its functions, as already stressed, by limiting them to purely migration processes; thirdly, to delete article 10 on the use of weapons, as already discussed here; fourthly, to state, as appropriate, a clear financial basis, the creation of another forceful authority, because article 16 clearly does not answer that question. Finally, such a law must take effect after making the necessary premeditations. In general, we need to ensure that Ukraine solves migration problems on its own, civilized, without the Western dictatorship, for hundreds of millions of dollars from the European Union to strengthen Ukraine’s western borders will have to wait as long and in vain as other promises. As long as the war is not far from us, the United States treats its allies as a servant.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u62	Until a private militiaman or a border guard has what to live for, we must act realistically and considerately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u63	Georgi Korniyovich Kruchkov of the Communist faction. Please. Prepare the ground.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u64	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Our committee has comprehensively considered the draft law that was introduced today for consideration by the Supreme Council. Members of the committee share the idea of the need for a single effective state administration system of migration processes to ensure a comprehensive approach to the production and implementation of state migration policies. The committee agreed to support the proposal to adopt the project, provided that it would be removed from the position that would be aimed at creating another force or quasi-silient structure in the country, which would provide for the transfer of powers to that service, which refer to the competence of other authorities and more of them, and some others. We received a written assurance from the head of the State Department of Migration, Gennadia Hennadiovich Moskal, and then from the subject of the legislative initiative of colleague Bandurko. So we think our warnings in this part are off. But I asked for the floor to draw attention to one very important detail, in my opinion: a bill aimed at creating the State Migration Service as the central authority of the executive branch and its system of immigration. However, according to the Constitution, article 106, part 1, paragraph 15, “The creation, reorganization and liquidation of ministries and other central executive bodies” refers to the powers of the President of Ukraine, not the Supreme Council. In doing so, the President takes a decision on such matters at the request of the Prime Minister. Has the constitutional procedure been followed, or do we not, as the whistle is said, run ahead? According to available information, the Presidential Administration is preparing or preparing an appropriate decree. Therefore, I believe that if the proposed bill is adopted on a basis, its revisions and subsequent consideration should take into account the President's decision on this issue, so that we do not adopt the law, and the President does not, for some reason, recognize the need to create the State Migration Service. And we say, "let's stay on the beans." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u65	Thank you. National Deputy Terrence, Julius Timoshenko bloc faction. Get ready for Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u66	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues! Today, the problem of emigration is very important to our nation. The enlargement of the EU and its borders to Ukraine will further exacerbate the situation. Because open borders in the east and closed in the west make Ukraine a reservoir of illegal migrants, without being able to enter the west, they will be sitting with us. In view of this, the bill is timely and deserves attention. The question of creating a migration service is not new. As early as 1994, Kabmin was passed the Ordinance on the Creation of Migration Services in Ukraine. Its goal was to pursue a single migration policy. As a result of this decision, the authorities of the Migration Service were to operate within the Ministry’s structure in matters of nationality and migration. However, this ministry was transformed into a state committee, and then into a state committee as part of the administrative reform, it was transformed into a department within the Ministry of Justice. It's been a year since the state committee was reestablished. I could talk about it for a long time. So that's what's causing the pipes to dissipate, and now there's 5 or more of the problems of migration. And so here, I think we really need to put order in place, but the most accurate approach is to the problem, the People's Deputy Khruchkov, who was speaking to me and I want to stress it. Listen, please, right now, we're looking at a bill on the state migration service in Ukraine, practically creating a new central executive authority, as Khrüchkov was really talking about here, these powers belong to the President. In accordance with article 106 of paragraph 15 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President forms, reorganizes and eliminates the Prime Minister of the Ministry and other central authorities of the executive branch, acting within the limits of the funds provided for us by the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council, and listen carefully, has only the right to approve the general structure, the number and the definition of the functions established in accordance with the laws of military formation. So I'd like to be honest today about whether we're creating another paramilitary formation, that's what Karmazin warned us about, whether we're replacing the presidency, and taking some of the powers from the Ministry of Social Policy, the work, the Ministry of Labour and so on, we're creating a new central executive body, we're violating the Constitution, that's what nonsense is. Or we're creating another military formation that we're talking about here, and that we're talking about in Europe, we're creating some kind of police formation. You see, this is where we need to get a good look at it. And then there's one last sentence. To my profound conviction, the Supreme Council would first have to determine the principles of regulation of demographic and migration processes in accordance with article 92 of the Constitution, by adopting the Concept of Migration Policy of Ukraine, which would be the framework document, the very framework document that would determine the direction of its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u67	Thank you. Mikola Tomenko, please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u68	Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I am two words of the story of this question so that we can understand what it is. In our time, the Ministry of Nationality and Migration and the late Alexander Emtsa were appointed minister of this ministry. I was among those who developed the first concept of migration policy and the concept of ethnonational politics. And I remember those discussions when some of the officials who still work for us today at the Ministry of Finance, the Cabinet of Ministers, told the President, then Leonid Krawczuk, how much money we would lose if we created a system of migration services. Then we predicted and showed numbers of illegal refugees, figures of illegal migration, how this would affect the social, economic, ethnocultural situation in the country, how this would affect the job market and unemployment. And then someone decided that it didn't have to be done, this concept was actually blocked, and the process of creating this system, actually, wasn't as much the State Migration Service as the State Migration Policy had stopped. The particular subject that these people need to be mentioned and that they should now look at the consequences after the unauthorized, or practically we are not interfering with this system of migration. We have villages in Central Ukraine run by gangs of immigrant countries. We have regions in the cities where these people run, and there are no district administrations or district councils. And no one can do anything. We have a situation where today, from the point of view of employment in certain traditional fields, we have traditional occupations that have an excess of those people, and we do the best we can for those people who come. In all civilized countries, migration services are assigned not only to how many people can enter the country but to what areas, what fields, what professions? If you're coming and you want to work as a teacher, of course, and we have enough teachers, good-bye, go to another country. Because we have to protect our citizens first, and then those who have problems. And I'm surprised by our tolerance, because yesterday I'm listening, the President of Ukraine in Mongolia said that everyone who's been suffering in Iraq, in other countries, we're going to work here, we're going to help. But our children are not getting better. And by the way, the President of Mongolia, I think it's actually bullying us, and then I said, "And we're ready to heal your neighborhood kids." And Mongolia, where the socio-economic situation is semi-feodal, it will heal our children, because we are healing the children of those who have suffered in the Persian Gulf. That's why I support this bill. The only thing that I think is too big for us here is the benefits of this State Migration Service, and we need to create it first, and then we need to think about the benefits. This chapter needs to be removed. And in general, it's to support and think, at last, about our citizens, not about the citizens who come to make money from this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u69	Dear colleagues! Time's up. Question completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. Please, with the motives of Michael Schulg, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u70	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today, when we consider the creation of a migration service, we discussed mainly the principles of the policy of migration policy of the State. And it turns out that somehow in violation of the proposals made by the Cabinet of Ministers to look at government migration policy first, and then to look at this law, we started looking at this law. It doesn't make sense. So I think, first of all, we need to look at the State Migration Service, determine priorities, determine what we're going to do, and then create an organ and its functions. That's why I think we're looking at this bill prematurely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u71	Yeah, with Boris Bespali's motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u72	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. The previous speaker greatly facilitated the motivation of my position because it is quite the opposite. We're very late for this project because the wave of illegal migration has just flooded Ukraine, and that's exactly why I'm asking everyone to support this bill in the first reading, because technical issues can be solved in preparation for the second reading. And a crucial and crucial point is the protection of Ukrainian citizens, the protection of their social and labour rights and the regulation of migration flows. So in my brief speech, I refer once again to all my colleagues, regardless of their political orientation, and we are one Ukrainian party in this regard, supporting this bill. Thank you and I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u73	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u74	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! I really want to get it into our transcript and my opinion on this. I'd like to add something to Bespalogo's brief presentation. We really have a conflict, we don't know what's going to happen to this presidential decree. This time. The second question. I, in support of the ideology that we've been talking about here, both Mikola Tomenko and other colleagues who really need to protect our citizens, and this is a matter that needs to be settled. But I would just ask you not to vote in the first reading for this version of the law and I'll explain why. Dear colleagues, we've recently sent a battalion to a hot spot, we haven't thought about their social protection. And today we're creating another armada of officials, and now we're putting in a bill a free home for them, and so on and so forth. I suggest you send for the first reading, clear this law, remove from it again these, forgive me, the virgin benefits that bet there and then vote for it only. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u75	Chubarov's reaction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u76	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say that, obviously, all legal aspects are related to migration, including illegal migration. Indeed, we also need to consider the only body in the executive branch on migration issues. So I think we have to vote in the first reading for this project, but I want to say that it would be unserious to expect that without strengthening the borders in general and especially in the east, we will only give some order by adopting this law. So I think we need to make decisions on the Supreme Council that would be aimed at final solutions to those border problems that we have in the eastern direction so that these illegal migrants do not use Ukraine's transit territory. And here are some moments of this political relationship with our neighbors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, we are finalizing the draft law on the National Migration Service in Ukraine, as you have seen and this has shown discussion, doubts as to the relevance, there is no need for this bill. At the same time, we need to look at the internal fulfillment of this bill. Especially in the part about our efforts to please everyone at the expense of the State. I mean, part of the relief. And according to the apartment, we don't have a utility. We write down 50 percent of the payment there and all that. We have to look first, obviously, at the possibilities of the state. I think we should take that into account. Alexander Markovich Bandurka and finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, I said from the rostrum that this was being prepared for when we had not yet passed the law and when the benefits were in effect. Today, we have given written assurances that by the second reading, all of this will be removed from the law, since other social protection legislation does not provide for this. This will be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, the decision on this bill will be taken on the day of the vote, taking into account the positions that have been declared deputies during the discussion. It's being announced. Oh, dear fellows, there is such a question. Are we going to take a break or are we going to work because we have so many bills? No breaks, huh? So let's work, please. A draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Advertising Act is being announced for consideration. Reporters. That's how it's proposed. We have three reporters and a co-reporter, and I'd like to ask very briefly, because we don't have time to discuss this bill. Within three minutes, if I may, Yuri Anatolyevich, I will be most grateful.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u80	I'll try. Dear Head, honourable Members, I would like to point out first of all that if every bill were to go through all the templates of the previous discussion, as it was with this editorial, with a new draft of the bill on advertising, we would not have to blush over our early decision-making. As we know, the scope of the Ukrainian advertising market is much in store for the advertising markets of our immediate neighbors. And everyone here understands that you can't make quality TV for three copies. The first edition of the Ukrainian Advertising Act was adopted in 96. But the situation has changed considerably since then. Now there are two problems in the media room: the first is the need to produce competitive products and the second is the difficulty in protecting our domestic information space from external influence. It's happening under conditions. when the media are virtually not financed by Ukrainian advertisers. TV channel managers generally agree with the bill. But at the same time, it is called hard and just. It's hard, because the new edition finally contains a ban and introduces new sanctions for violators in relation to direct and hidden advertising for alcohol and tobacco. It is fair, since the bill primarily takes into account the interests of the audience. This highlights a compromise option. It meets not only the requirements of advertisers and viewers but also the standards of European legislation based on the practice of our Western neighbors. And now, if I may, in more detail. First, the advertising blocks in the new edition should be reduced to 5-7 minutes. To compare now, the block is going 15-20 minutes, which includes anons of transmissions, which we haven't broken, unfortunately. Socially important programs, such as religious and childish films and documentaries, will not be interrupted by advertising. The other one. The press will prohibit the advertising of alcohol and tobacco products on the first and last page of publications. The same prohibition will apply to advertising trademarks. To balance the interests of both the audience and the media and advertisers, the bill allows trademarks that produce commercial products to be only sponsors of entertainment and sports programs, why they have not lost any demonstration of these programs. In this case, it will only be allowed to announce the name of sponsors without a demonstration of production and without the use of advertising texts, not as it is now. Some in this room are reluctant to accept this offer, but remember that the advertising of alcohol brands now accounts for about 20 percent of the total advertising market in Ukraine. Thirdly, the bill protects the rights of minors, prohibits the influence of unconsciousness. There is a clear distinction between “commercial” and “social” advertising, and we deliberately rejected the notion of “political advertising” because a similar project has already been registered in the Supreme Council. A clear definition of bad advertising, the degree of responsibility for its distribution, has been established. Consumers have the right to demand corporate props from the media if advertising does not match the quality of the product. Protecting unscrupulous advertising for securities and drug abuse is also provided in this bill. Clearly indicated are the mechanisms for punishing unscrupulous advertisers, manufacturers, and advertisers. You're looking at a new draft of the bill on advertising. In our view, the view of the committee, because we've had a few drafts, it's also basic, it's principled, it doesn't rip pieces that. He's actually a new editor. He is supported by a profiling committee with the proposal to accept it as a basis in the first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the committee's conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u81	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have a question for our colleague? Please sign up. Please sign in. Please give the name of the national MPs who are registered. Yuri Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u82	Lucenko, Ukrainian Socialist Party I have a question for you: do you consider it appropriate to introduce a certain percentage of advertising revenue into the production of a national television product by these companies? That's the first question. And the second question, I didn't quite get it, did this law of political advertising apply?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u83	Answer. First of all, this law does not apply to political advertising. There's a bubble bill, Communist Mishura, which will detail what will now be on the committee's agenda. As for the first question, the bill has such a norm that 5 percent of it. Advertisers should be sent to a special account that will be determined either by a separate law or by the Cabinet of Ministers for the production of social advertising. And for the production of the national product, we're going to assume that it's the market filling, it's going to force it to produce this national product. I'll say this: in Russia, they're now being produced because there's advertising, they're being produced, this year alone, they're planning to make two thousand hours of shows, and all of these shows, they're going to go to our market. We have no reason to oppose them. So we think that the reduction on one side of the advertising block, but the more money that's going to start, it's going to give you the opportunity to produce a national product.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u84	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u85	The Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear reporter! Please tell us what it is necessary to make this subject of a separate law, since there is no new legal relationship, by giving social advertising a comparative ad, not by giving a separate article a political ad. That's the first question. The second question. While advertising is going through all national channels, it is essentially the case that the same channel owner on all channels is being bullied by viewers today, citizens of Ukraine. You don't see it coming. You don't see it coming. Because people's psyche is going down, you called the project fair and hard, there's no hardness, and there's no justice. 20 percent of advertising every hour -- that's called rigidity? I'm sorry, it's called total advertising across the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u86	You know, I'll answer the second question. You know, Yuri Anatoliyovich, I'm a professional journalist, and I remember when inflation started in Russia in the newspaper Komsomolska Pravda was such a headline when the government gave the task of, say, making products at such fixed prices and there was such a headline as "Elcin ordered to be meat for two rubles, meat resisting." So if we come up with such logic that what we've said is true, it's not going to do any good. I'm going to bring up a few of these numbers, why it's hard, because, for example, in Russia now, every 15 minutes, in the U.S., every 10 minutes. We have about $85 million in Ukrainian advertising. And for comparison in the same Russia, Poland is 900 and 508, which is more orderly. As far as political advertising is concerned. We had our differences on the committee. Some members of the committee and I, including myself, believe that there should be no law on political advertising at all, but there should be a chapter large in the Law on the Election of People's Deputies, such as the features of the functioning of the media during, before the elections or at some other time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u87	Lejko Grigorovich Lukyanenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u88	Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party, Yulia Timoshenko Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, I would like to ask you this. This law, which was passed in 1996 on advertising, also prohibited and prohibited both vodka and tobacco products. However, nothing was done in practice. We still saw shields that advertised all of this, and it continued as it did before that law. What kind of mechanism do you think can be used to force executive authorities to comply with this law? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u89	Thank you. I think the best way out of this is to change this executive power, if you will. And in principle, you see, we have laid down in the law more stringent rules of the game and more severe penalties, four times, five times the price of advertising violations, up to 300 untaxed minimums. But the answer, of course, is not that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u90	Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich, time has passed. Thank you. The report is invited as the author of the draft law, Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u91	Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the actual Advertising Act, which your questions were, in principle, prohibited advertising on television, on the radio broadcasting of alcohol and tobacco products. Moreover, the Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl alcohol, cognac, fruit-alcoholic beverages and tobacco products provides for State principles to limit the harmful effects of drinking alcohol and tobacco products, which should include promoting a healthy lifestyle free from the consumption of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products, information on damage, excessive consumption of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. All of this is provided for use on national television. At the same time, dear colleagues, we see that 30 to 40 percent of television advertising is about advertising alcohol. All the questions that we've sent to the television companies, to the institutions that are supposed to advertise this subject, they give us the answer: it's not alcohol advertising, it's brand advertising. And so, the outsiders, the soft ones, the immoderate ones, and so on and so forth, are forcing our citizens to pay attention to it, and above all, our young people are affected by it. I'd like to give you a second example, Your Honor. Many of you have seen the Longer Crazy Juice commercial. It's a lie. It's not juice, it's vodka that's diluted with juice. And young people are persuaded to use this dangerous thing for health, for the mental health of people. Dear colleagues! I have introduced a bill that provides for the possibility of re-advertising trade marks to advertise dangerous goods, such as alcoholic beverages and other alcoholic beverages, so to speak, the contents of alcohol. Dear colleagues! I am very much asking you to support this bill. I realize that alcohol is very expensive for advertising on television. The companies that produce this product certainly have money. But we cannot sell our country’s future for money, sell our young people’s health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u92	Please sign up for the question. Please explain. Victor Taran. Next Warming.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill, Alexander Turchinov, is about banning the advertising of soft drinks, that is, banning the merger of young people. I mean, Turkey is proposing a ban on television and radio not only on advertising tobacco products and alcoholic beverages but also on weak alcoholic beverages and trademarks under which the products and beverages are produced. And that's why I have a question for you, Alexander Valentinovich. Do you not think that television today is doing everything to ensure that our young people, our future, are captured by alcohol, tobacco, and so forth, not interested in politics, not interested in their nationality, not interested in their cultural problems. So it's a state policy, a state policy global, a state policy, not, say, just television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u94	Thank you, Victor Vasilovich, for asking. You know, I agree with you. In fact, on television, alcohol is advertised as insolently as it is suggested that young people use alcohol, which is clear that it is not accidental. And that can be explained by the fact that all of our state-wide national channels belong to the major oligarchic groups around our President. And it is certainly part of their policy to unite our people, to keep our young and drunken young people together, and to manage them more easily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u95	Boris warms up. Next Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u96	Thank you. Boris Zagreva, "Our Ukraine" faction, Ukrainian People's Party. Please pass the word to Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich. Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Your law on time, it knocks on Parliament's door, our faction will support it. Without a doubt, obstacles should be put on the way to advertising alcoholic beverages, asking questions about the culture of drinking alcoholic beverages, not vachanalia, in fact, advertising alcoholic beverages on television, on the streets. And I'd say that it makes changes in consciousness and consciousness and changes in morality, like taking alcohol at large doses, and it's always something prestigious, it's something moral. This creates a new world view, which is harmful, which has a negative impact on people’s health, so of course we will support the bill. But that is the question. What do you think his chances are? Whether there are enough political forces in the Supreme Council, healthy forces that drink, but not so often, and they are able to resist this vacanal and especially to influence television because television survives on it. We can understand it from a financial point of view, but from a professional, moral, political point of view, we cannot understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u98	Thank you, Your Honor, for supporting the bill. I want to say that the channel owners have enough money to get them from other sources to support their channels. And to do that, we don't have to put our citizens together, we don't have to put our young people together. With regard to supporting the bill by the majority factions, I hope that many of the deputies of these factions have a lot of common sense, and they will certainly make their choice to protect our future, to protect our people from alcohol, from tobacco, from destruction of the actual one. And the Supreme Council will actually be able to vote, and it will, I hope, vote on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u99	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, your bill is absolutely correct in saying that advertising for non-alcoholic products is no less harmful advertising. More so, the trade marks that appeared on television today are simple. Let's put it this way, they're inciting people to drink. But I have a different question. You're making changes to the advertising law, not just TV commercials. Look what's happening: today people on the intersections see three, five on the boards that seem to compete with each other -- the same "Uncle Vanya" and "Michael" is what you're talking about. Do you not think that this side of advertising alcohol should be limited to a certain extent, since today all other goods are supposedly replaced on these poles by vodka? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u101	Thank you for asking. I think that by adopting the bill in the first reading, you and I will be able to complete it in order to take into account other aspects of advertising that can be stopped today, protecting the health of our citizen, the health of our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u102	Time's up. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u104	The word is given to the Montenegrin Leonid Mikhailovich. Is there a Chernewsky? Leonid Mikhailovich, are you reporting your law?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u105	The Honourable President and distinguished deputies, my bill is the most radical in advertising that prohibits tobacco advertising and alcoholic beverages. I've been around in a while when it's been interesting and I'm reporting that in no European country today you're not going to see Malborough commercials or other cigarettes there or vodka and everything. Moreover, developed countries are on their way to ban smoking even in public places. But there are so many supporters that my law will not be missed. If you vote in favour of this law, you will save Ukraine from this problem. Because he's in no way allowing these narcotics, in fact, things to be advertised. So what I want to say to you is that today, when they say that we're going to lose the TV market or radio market or something else, it's mostly people who've taken over TV channels and the media, and it's also big boards and all sorts of things. It's basically a very corrupt market. And besides what you're saving, we're gonna save our children from these problems because they're always looking at what a good-looking racer looks like on Malboro or under a camel sitting in a good-looking American advertising "Cammel." In fact, they don't smoke these people who probably advertise these horrible things. Because they wouldn't look so good, of course. But in addition, we will do another important social task, because, of course, it is very easy to advertise and earn money for death, much more difficult to show interesting televisions, including with the participation of people's deputies, where there will be many people here, where people will hear positive things, not, well, horrors about how to smoke well or drink vodka. Last night I was looking at it completely by accident, and I think the Lord God showed me this transmission, and I was watching the "Discovery" broadcast about the harm that smoking does to my health, and it's very careful. I've got five minutes, I'm the author of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u106	We all took three minutes. Please bet at this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u107	Five minutes. Look, here's a proponent of not passing my law. All other laws are passed by the wicked. And I'll tell you, as soon as I've passed my bill, there's a whole bunch of drafts that want to sort of solve this problem differently. They don't give a shit about her. Save our children and grandchildren and everyone. And not just ours. And let's make our country civilized, it's very important. It's so important that even my spirit takes over from what we've brought into the hall. And I didn't go so easy because I know what drugs, alcoholism and smoking are, because it touched my loved ones. Fortunately, I'm not a drug addict, but, in principle, many today would be happy to see me in a drug situation, only if I don't pass my bill when you vote for my bill, God will be with you, I call you very seriously. This is not a joke, please support my bill, and we will continue to improve it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u108	Please sign up for questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u109	Now I'm going to be a national language, there's no problem. That's the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u110	Light up, please. Winsky, next Kirichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u111	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Aren't you told that this is the bill that we're talking about today, if we take it out of the general context, the immoral state, the immoral power, the immoral society, and we want to put order in one area? I think we should start with the basic, you know, the situation that is in advertising today is the mechanism of moral breakdown, the mechanism of the breakdown of society, the mechanism of the breakdown of human relationships that are mental for our nation. Aren't you told that we should look at these problems a little bit more?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u112	You know, I also thought that let's start with something this big, and then we'll get to the cigarettes. The President is very right when he says we can do a lot in Parliament and we don't. Today I suggest you put one brick in our society's health building. And it's going to depend on you too, and if you don't vote for my bill, then you don't have to talk about serious problems. This is the most serious problem. And in a little bit, we're going to get to more serious problems, even though today I see this problem the most serious way. And every day that we don't accept a bill, on this proposal of mine, is made by those who today push out all other bills, except my colleague Mr. Turkinov, because he's a believing person, and I don't, and I don't mean anyone else, let them sound like others. Because these companies have billions of bribe budgets, not just for advertising. And yesterday I saw it on the Discovery Channel. And I've seen how much money is spent on these things.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u113	Please, National Deputy Terrence, faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u114	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear reporter, you know, Paul Grigorovich Tikini has these verses: "The society that I care about, whether I'm the first project or the last." I mean, in principle, it doesn't matter who's first, who's last. But still, I want to say for the truth, and for the sake of the transcripts, that much earlier, a bill of Turkey has been registered as yours. Well, it's for the truth. And if that's true, if your bill actually repeats that, well, I'll give it to you, so you can't look, I have it. If your bill actually repeats what is in Turkey, is it not appropriate that the truth really prevails and is accepted, you simply withdraw your bill and support Turkinov, because your bill actually repeats it. That's the first question. 11 seconds to go. And the second. You say that the President is very right when he says that Parliament can do a lot, but he doesn't. I'd like to ask you a different question. The President can do a lot, but he doesn't. Do you agree with that? It does not make the situation in Ukraine dominated by cultural, educational, and not by Rogan. "Roll" is good, you know. National culture is bad. That is, to create and create an atmosphere in a country where there is no all that there is today. Thank you. Two questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u115	First of all, I want to tell you the principle that, as a Christian, I equally love you and the President. And I have no problem with that. I don't have any hatred, even though you can talk me out of it. That's the first one. Oh, that's different. I want to tell you that I've passed this bill, and the honourable chairman knows, and, I think he can handle me, and everyone who's been on the Conciliation Council, I'm going to push him out. I'm his real initiator today, and I'm gonna get him to the bank. What's more, I'll do it if we don't take it, yeah, it won't even come into your head. So back me up, yeah. And we will not be wicked.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u116	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u117	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky oblasts, Lvivščina, "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter! I'm waiting for your performances, for God's sake, no one here likes you as much as I do, waiting for your performances as a holiday. I'm sure a lot of people here will never become drug addicts because they get high from your performances the highest they can be. [[Applause]] So I want to ask you. In fact, let's say, for example, let's say, on behalf of such a private, private Ukrainian resident, there's this wonderful ad of vodka, it's kind of the most pompous thing we have, and so people think, "Well, maybe there's some kind of a drink there, a drink there, a drink there and something else." And then, let's say it's, well, it's a very, very, very high-ranking person, and people see it as an anti-alcoholic commercial. What can be left behind, or first or second? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u118	Well, first of all. I want to tell you that I'm waiting for your performances, too. And when I go to Parliament, yes, I read the Bible every day for seven years, and Mr. Turkinov will confirm. Yeah? And I'm seriously going towards Christian ideology. I want to tell you that I ask God to give me words that fall into your heart. And I finally did. That's why you haven't heard such statements from me in past parliaments. Isn't it? Yeah. And I think I got you. That is why this bill is from God. I assure you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u119	Thank you. Time's up. From the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, the head of the committee, Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u120	Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! I sometimes feel the same way that Parliament has to remind the circus, but in most cases it has to be a parliament, so I would like us to gather and talk now enough about serious things. The committee, and I'd like to take this off, I've considered three bills. No one was pushing or pushing anywhere, and the committee supported the three bills as stipulated by the Rules. And any author here can perform, reprove and so forth. So I wanted all the warnings with the leadership of the Supreme Council or the committee to be removed. Another thesis. We're now talking about a new bill on advertising, not about change and the position of the principle committee, we're going to reject all the bills of those national deputies who are worthy or authoritative, who think they've made one word and saved Ukraine from immorality. This is a procedure, a mechanism, a responsibility, and an understanding of how the law should work. And when someone thinks he's put two words "no alcohol advertising" and it's resolved, it's obvious that that man is deeply wrong. That's why we prepared and talked about the new law. Today, advertising for alcohol and tobacco on television is prohibited. But there are no trade marks. And so the advertisers took advantage of it, and in fact, there's direct advertising on television for alcohol and tobacco. In the law, we provided for a strict ban and trademark, including a trade mark. [[supported by the committee]] I want to say that we have foreseen a procedure that, if this law has supported, I mean Artemenko, Bagraia, Omelchenka, will be accepted, advertising alcohol on television and on radio will not be in principle. And I didn't want there to be any moments. With regard to Alexander Turchinov's version. I agree with him that we need to think between the first and the second readings, really, this situation has arisen with everyone there, like pseudo-indulgents, who have really the basis of alcohol and so on, and so on, and that's to predict, because this is not the case today. One second. Today, there are certain realities that we are talking about. These realities mean that we must protect the social morality and protect our viewer and protect it with a severe influence on the content of advertising, including. We don't eliminate advertising as a class because it's part of an economic relationship, we need to influence the content of advertising, and we predict, just like we do. And finally, we have strict rules on advertising, public language and responsibility. And what we're talking about is that we and I, in particular, are a person who has a position with regard to channel owners, criticises these channels, I'm a representative of the opposition. But I'm afraid that once the opposition comes to power, and it eventually comes to power, we have in Ukraine in the countryside, not only one Russian Radio, but also one Russian Television. Because if we don't define those rules of conduct on the advertising market, Russia's advertising market just gets up and disables Ukrainian television as a fact. So our position is to protect people's morals, but we don't have to eliminate Ukrainian television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u121	Thank you. Please take a position from the government. Only I would ask you to identify, someone from the government has spoken, or we have 10 people coming for one question. Please, who will be there from the government to speak on this matter?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u122	Leonid Semenovich, head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. In our view, Bill 2476, submitted by the national deputies Artemenko, Bagrayev, Alexander Omelchenk, should be supported. We propose to take this bill as a basis, and in our view we should also take into account the proposals proposed by national deputy Alexander Turkinov, who impose additional restrictions on tobacco advertising and alcoholic beverages on television and radio in part of trade stamps and logos. The issue of social advertising remains very relevant today. The absence of an effective legal mechanism, the control of tobacco costs and the use of alcoholic beverages, enables advertisers of tobacco products and alcoholic beverages not to pay the specified costs, to violate existing legislation, and to benefit from health benefits, primarily for young people and adolescents. Therefore, it would be appropriate to reflect in the law the standards that relate to the moral condition of society, which primarily relates to the distribution of erotic products and the use of erotic elements in advertising. Taking into account changes and additions, this bill will be more adapted to European and international standards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u123	Thank you. Let's go over to the table, give us a list of the names of the national MPs, we have nine minutes left. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction, prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u124	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština With a commercial in Ukraine, to be honest, we're bending the stick. It certainly has to take its place in our lives, touching all areas of the economy: culture, life, etc. But it requires not dilettarianism but governmental, thoughtful approach with balanced standards and the use of international positive experience from its organization. That is, advertising, as an engine of production and politics, must be smart and attractive, aesthetic in content and form. Unfortunately, that's not exactly what you're going to say about our advertising. Today, it is obsessive, sometimes empty. Do you, your fellow believers, not have the desire to look into the eyes of those who give way to such advertisements? Do we not have a body that should be responsible for having low - quality advertising and production from television screens, from which the population receives only irritation and sensitive nervous disorders? You look at, say, an interesting TV show or a movie, and once and for all, you get a little bit of a repeat of the same annoying commercial and the wrong songs and hangovers: "Melkow" -- the soul company, "Artemis" on the table -- peace and peace in the family, toast and drink -- a beautiful couple and so on? You can only imagine. What the reaction and further actions with unforeseen consequences have caused, let's say, only a slight attempt to interrupt the President of Ukraine's speech with a fat, say, advertism. In such a case, all of them would have been able to fly their heads in these, too. Thank God, there's still a little sanity, and that's not what happened. So far, advertisers' actions are falling apart, and they're not responsible for breaking existing legislation. We cannot agree with the proposal to lift the ban on discontinuing films for the purpose of advertising. By the way, when they meet with the voters, they ask to learn about the allocation of individual air time in television programs for advertising blocks. For example, watching a movie spends about 15 minutes on air. And here the voters are asking, why should I enrich the advert's execution? Paying 15 minutes' worth of electricity? For advertising, there may have to be a specific time and channel for interested ones to watch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u125	Yuri Carmazin, get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u126	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Today, all are misled: What are the three alternative bills we are considering? We're looking at a health bill called "Pro advertising," a new edition reported by Yuri Artemenko, and we're looking at two maneuves, as Rikin said, "something in the nose," a projectile. Of course, they deserve to be paid attention, but the time is right to look at them, I think it just wasn't serious by the organizers of this meeting. Why? Because the draft would not have to be reported for five minutes, it would have to be said that one article here is supplemented by one sentence: "It is forbidden to advertise tobacco products and alcoholic beverages." We're in. All of them. And we support that. Turkinov added soft drinks. Everything, and you don't have to talk about it anymore, and you don't have to spend it here. And now for the bill that Artemenko proposed. Of course, and today Tomenkom has been thoroughly analyzed, of course, this is a step forward, but you know, you don't have to take the whole step, not the whole step because the mines are slowed down here. First of all, there's no political advertising at all. We are invited to do so in the election law. I'm sorry, there are political parties all the time, and they need more than just time for elections, otherwise there will be Women for the Future, without Ukraine. I'm sorry, the Party of Protectors of the Motherland is clearly in position: now to provide, now and on all channels, the oligarchic or not oligarchitic. That's the first one. The second is a separate article, just like you write social ads. Second, you write in the 13th article: "The time spent on advertising cannot exceed 15 percent of the total actual volume of speech." During one astronomical period, you can count what you write and why you write 15 and why not 5 and why not 3? Where did you figure it out? You've seen that in America 98 channels, and we have two channels in the village, if 3, 4, they all belong to the same owner. And this one owner runs the commercial at the same time, and you can't survive. What you do then is you create a monopoly. So I say that the 13th article is written in a clan agreement to those who have these channels. The 13th article in this form does not have the right to live on its own. This applies to the interruption of film and video broadcasts. You see what we're doing, we're doing mental damage to our population, especially to the growing generation. And about tobacco advertising. I want you to know that when a woman was a colleague of ours -- Paradise the Richter's Minister of Health -- she supported the lawsuit, to American campaigns in U.S. courts for about $20 billion. Ukraine was to receive these funds. She was pushed so hard, she was called back without her, she was called back, and Ukraine didn't get anything. This is the kind of forehead behind the tobacco, and this is the kind of forehead behind the alcohol.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u127	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u128	Dear fellow national MPs! Dear radio listeners! I would like to say first of all, of course, that the advertising market is not regulated. So the normal thing is going on in the process of some kind of regulation right now. And that's what the three bills are all about. What is really an alternative to the Advertising Act is to be discussed no more than fully according to the previous statement. Others need only point out that the Chernobyl project completely prohibits the advertising of tobacco and alcohol products in all manifestations, wherever they may be, even in men’s clubs, and that advertising is prohibited everywhere. This is a total approach, I want you to know that. And, in principle, this has to be treated with some caution, on the one hand. On the other hand, it is absolutely right to make adjustments to alcoholic beverages. We are well aware that underalcoholic beverages can hide advertising and strong alcoholic beverages. Finally, I see no difference in what makes a person an alcoholic of alcoholic beverages or of strong alcoholic beverages. So I wanted to give you a few more minutes to focus on the Artemenko Bill. There's such a passage, I'd like everyone to hear it because the law itself is necessary, but some things kind of undermine his trust. This expression, we read, is prohibited by advertising with information that can undermine adult authority and trust in minors. You know, blow it up. I can't understand this passage, adults, children. What is this all about? And they cause or cause a negative psychological condition. Yes, I have Ukrainian television all together without any advertising causing a severe negative psychological condition. Then does it have to be banned? And there's a lot of these flaws. I mean, I'd like to say that there's enough positive here, but let's not forget that the law is necessary. And that's why it's good, especially we can and should point out right now that not even the advertising of alcohol or tobacco products is made in a foreign language. Why? Then why isn't it in English? She also understood everyone. I don't see another one. That's why I need to emphasize and adopt a law that forbids it clearly, because I see a Peace commercial, and I don't like it, because it's a foreign language, and it's a foreign spirit, and it's a vodka commercial. So I'm stressing that we have to adopt the Advertising Act, which takes into account the Turkinov Bills in the first place, and I'm positive for the Chernewetsk Law, and we have to be honest with each other here in this room to say that we need this law. And this law needs to be treated that way. There are plenty of shortcomings, and the percentages placed are sufficiently literate in this Advertising Act. But on the other hand, why sponsor it if it's not there? And so on. And in general, I would totally agree that in Ukraine, without this law, we cannot raise a normal generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u129	Thank you. The time spent on the subject has been exhausted. What procedure? Please proceed with the Blackout procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I won't forget that. The thing is, in my opinion, there's been a breach of procedure. Again, three bills were passed, all three supported by the committee. In my opinion, our committees are not carrying out their mission. They are obliged to consider the bills that have come; they are obliged to force the maximum number of authors to have one bill, not three. If the author agrees, he removes it, and his positions are accounted for mainly by the bill. Now we can spread our voices on Thursdays, and such an important question that must be resolved beyond question, since we do not clearly and clearly define ourselves. That's why I'm offering to follow procedure. The committee can support one bill, and it is desirable to put one into the room by creating a working group that will agree on some positions. That's the first one. And the second. I agree with the need to write the mechanisms very clearly. Unless there are clear mechanisms, the laws will not work. And write down the responsibility for breaking the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u131	In this case, the committee, I will answer for you, Mikolo Volodymyrovich, so decided, in the draft decree number 2476/P, he proposes to adopt, as a basis, the draft Ukrainian Advertising Act of the People's Republic of Ukraine, Artemenko, Bagrayev, Omelchenk. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u132	Ten seconds. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to tell you that everything that has been said is from the wicked. And what we don't have is an ad for the same good air, we have a lot in Ukraine. Very talented journalists. We need to create programs, not advertise all kinds of shit. As for the committee, he almost kept my bill in the same place for four months until I got him here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u134	If you scatter it and put out three bills, don't give it to God. We won't vote for any of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u135	Thank you. Mikola Tomenko. A general summary, please. Head of the committee. Take the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u136	Dear colleagues! I would ask everyone, when we talk about such serious things as power, television, society more often to feel sorry for the Lord God, he has enough problems to preserve peace on this planet and stability. So let us remember him less. With regard to the bills once again, there is indeed a certain nuance in the fact that various laws are involved. There's a new edition, there's a new law, and there's two bills that apply to specific changes. The position of the committee has been as follows. We've tried our best to compromise between these authors. Since there was no compromise, we convinced the three authors. [[Although there were six bills]] So we're proposing to support the Bill of Artemenko, Bagraev, Omelchenka. As you've heard, all of Alexander Turkinov's changes with my warnings today are almost entirely ready to convert to second reading and Leonid Chernewick's in the television and radio parts where direct ban. Clearly, we don't spread it all over Ukraine, all the points where man and citizen walk and so long. And it's impossible to accept that. So the position of the committee is clear. We suggest that the new law be adopted in the first reading and that the amendments to this law be taken into account as much as possible by two other authors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! We have completed our consideration of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. A draft Arms Law is being announced for consideration. We also have two projects here, two reporters - Chernewsky and Joseph Wynski. Please, Leonid Mikhailovich Černovetský, I invite you to elaborate on your weapons bill. In five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u138	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. Today's bill is a continuation of those changes and one of the elements of democracy, because today most of the population have weapons, shotguns, all kinds of crap, and deputies have guns and. Huh? Talk to me, please. I'm all the deputies if you don't have enough. You're just gonna kick my ass for a second. Today, this problem is not resolved by law. I am sure that today, as an opponent under this law of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, I am really supported by this law, because this law - I must mention this person - was developed by the colonel general, the first deputy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Nedrigailo, a decent man. And he's quite ordinary. What's his point? [[for radio listeners]] They have weapons today, they don't need any law, and they don't need any authorization from the Supreme Council. Today, there is no weapons and no opportunity to protect those who are their victims who are killed daily in various parts of Ukraine. As for the left hand side of Parliament. I want to tell you that Lenin was still at the dawn of the revolution saying that the people must be armed. And if Stalin hadn't removed him from power, he would have done so, because the sign of any democracy is the opportunity to defend himself! Because some, especially in the regions of Ukraine, special units become bandits, they attack ordinary people, they search illegally, including transport, and they enter apartments, and I will give you a million examples. I have a constituency in my constituency with the help of, among other things, the staff of these services tossing voters out of their apartments and tossing them.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u139	One minute, Leonid Mikhailovich! I'm asking you to stop the meeting there. Leonid Semenovich, Leonid Semenovich! I'm asking you, your question is over, please hold a meeting in your structures. I'm telling you again! I'm sorry, we have to stick to the ethics of a normal human being!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u140	There is no democratic country where this issue would not have been resolved in one way or another. There's been a weapons law in Russia for a long time. This law has long existed and is effective. And there are no examples from Russia of what the problem is. What do we have in Ukraine today if you do not accept this law? There are absolutely poor Ukrainian security units that function for some reason as a commercial entity with a monopoly on the right to carry weapons. And they're starving people who want to serve in the militia because they don't get paid properly. In establishing security structures, we create tens of thousands of jobs. Today, some generals and colonels of decent people are wandering around the unemployed, who could serve their country well in commercial structures that would be specifically engaged in these activities. My law limits arbitraryly as much as possible, it gives no reason to assume that everyone will start shooting right next to the sitting man. It's kind of a dick that can't handle any criticism. We have political killings all the time. Look, they just killed another MP. The security that exists cannot do that. There is no country in the world in which the security functions are assumed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Even the presidents of many countries have concluded relevant treaties and are protected by private security structures. They value their authority, they fear that any employee of theirs, God forbid, would be drawn to a place where they would not be deprived of their license. But they are highly paid professionals, decent people who do their duty. There's nothing more special about this law. And, I think this Parliament will adopt it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, the question is, please sign up. Five minutes. Sign up for questions. Put on the board a list of the names of the national MPs who are enrolled. Colony, faction of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u142	I would like to ask how long it will take to increase the organs of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in order to have order in the country if we are to issue weapons to people.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u143	There's two ways, right? First, they're going to shrink. less service, which. Yeah. No, they don't shoot it off, you know, given Lenin didn't give you the benefit of the doubt. In fact, the organs of the Ministry of Internal Affairs will be smaller with lower wages, and let them take more for licenses and normal wages. Because today the Deputy Secretary of State is getting paid so much that God won't let you think about anything else. Besides salary, it's a problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u144	Yes, Andrew School, please, the Julia Timoshenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u145	Dear reporter, I actually want to support not only you, but all the arms laws, I belong to those people who believe that the main principle of protecting human freedom is their right to defend themselves, and the right to defend arms does. I want to ask you one question: why didn't you bring statistics to those post-Soviet countries that introduced the law for the free sale of arms -- Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia? In Lithuania, crime declined by 2.5 percent on the street, decreased after entry, and did not increase now. Why didn't you say so? And on the other hand, I ask again, why are we giving three bills again, why aren't they agreed that you don't like the two bills that are proposed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u146	It's the same thing as a tobacco commercial, isn't it? Because as soon as I'm proposing my bill, because I'm telling you, there's no one in this room that's going to convince anyone in the positive or puzzling examples of this bill. The lions will shave against it, though I promise all the communists to give the gun to the dearest. That's a hundred percent because it's a head problem, nothing else. It's an ideology issue, a human either free or a slave. Or the thug will know that he can be resisted and shot like a dog today, by the way, as a lawyer, I'm telling you that there's no reason to shoot. Cannot initialise But there is a slave ideology of the totalitarian system in which we were educated. As soon as we do. This law is more propaganda, give your voters a chance to become free - nothing more.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u147	Basil Calinchuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u148	Clothing, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Dear reporter! Indeed, according to the Constitution, each individual has an inalienable right to life, the right to defend his life, and as if he needed a weapon. But you said that this man is free if he has a weapon. And I think it's the other way around, if it's a weapon, it's violence for whoever has it. So can we allow another form of violence in our country because someone is carrying a gun or a machine gun or a grenade? That's the first one. The second question. Article 34 of the proposed bill mentions a tax on weapons, but it does not say anything, but how it will be calculated, what mechanism, and what kind of tax it is. I thank you, please answer these two questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u149	First. Bandits have guns, and you know it and you don't have permission to do it. And the fact that we don't pass the law, they're getting more and more, motherfuckers, they're arming themselves. Second. Once we get a good payoff for carrying a gun, the police will stop taking bribes, and they'll have extra money in their budget, and there's nothing special about this. But the other question is that wherever they want to restore fascism, the totalitarian system, there will never be a weapon, because they dream that it will come back tomorrow. And then the people must be unarmed. The people must be armed. The people must have the right to self-defence. And all the communists I promise to arm, it's no problem, for my money. Then let them read more Lenin. So we're defenseless, not shit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u150	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u151	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter, you know I've been breaking this law for seven years, not seven years, but eight years, along with a large copyright team. Why don't you want to talk about it today? You focus only on the 11th article of this law. Why don't you want to talk about serious arms circulation situations that are regulated with regard to the state-owned weapons cadastral, weapons and ammunition certification, about the classification of the weapons that are provided for in this? Why you don't want to talk about the tremendous amount of work that we did with you when we invited the embassies and thank those embassies of those countries, publish that information as they apply these laws, and then translate these bills, because people don't understand exactly what you're about to say, because you've only gone to the 11th and 12th articles, you're only talking about two articles. Tell me about the whole bill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u152	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u153	Yuri Anatoliyovich, first of all, I want everyone to know that you're in charge of this bill, not because I'm ironic because you've actually been doing this bill from the heart and from the conscience. But I want to tell you that this is a political issue. And any argument for the left-hand side of Parliament, no matter how much we say that there will be new jobs, that it will cause the insurance market and what you're talking about about cadastrals, and all the things that the guards are checking out, it won't matter. Because there will be a standing decision on this issue. Those with left ideologies will say that this law is not necessary because they remain in that society. And to talk about how other countries live, well, it doesn't make any impression. I can see the eyes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u154	Thank you. Time's up. Please sit down, Leonid Mikhailovich. It was necessary, perhaps, to arm everyone, and then to enforce the law. Please, I invite you to the rostrum of the author of another bill by Joseph Vikcentiovich Winski, who will present the bill of the group of national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u155	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I am introducing Bill No. 1171/2. It is another option of the legislative regulation of legal relations that occurs in the circulation of various weapons and weapons in Ukraine. Our overall position is the next. Such a serious and topical subject, such as weapons, their circulation and use, terminology, which of these issues must be regulated by legislation, not by the familiar instructions that are so far. This is the principle position of our group. It's a hot topic. She's out of date, and with the adoption of the law we're late, I'm sure you know that for almost five years there's a debate going on around this law. You know, there are a few bills that have been submitted to the Supreme Council. They differ in content, coming out of three basic things. First. These are the authors who represent the interests. Whose interests are behind them? Arms dealers need to be frank about this; states within the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the power structures and users of weapons. And here I would say that the sedentary point determines the point of the corn on this question. And that's pretty obvious. I'll be honest. That bill, prepared by me and my colleagues, was prepared by gun users: athletes, coaches, hunters. So it's focused primarily on the interests of gun users, because they're interested, so that the issue needs to be regulated, and each one of them knows exactly what rights he has, what duties. We come from the fact that a natural or legal person who is interested in the acquisition and use of weapons should have the right, under a certain purpose, to acquire these weapons legally, to register and use them properly within the limits defined by law. At the same time, the State in the person of its authorized person must have full control over the movement of weapons, its placement, and how the users refer to them. I mean, if I'm a hunter, I need to know clearly that I buy weapons for hunting purposes, I have my rights, my duties and all that. If a person simply collects weapons, he has the right to buy them, hang them on a wall, look at them, and do nothing with them. If a man is an athlete, he knows accordingly that this weapon is used exclusively for sports activities and no more. That's what our bill's for. The fact that the level of this bill is high testifies to the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, which considers that the bill that I am presenting is "the most perfect -- I am here literally quoting a version of all the projects under consideration on this issue." [[I think she did an unbiased expertise.]] All comments, including alternative projects, can be taken into account when preparing for second reading. Taking into account the question of the armament of citizens, which the deputy of Chernovetsk, a short - standing weapon, has just spoken of, the subject of guns and revolvers is outlawed by this law. I wanted to emphasize that in particular. That is, the subject on which the draft bill, which was submitted by Chernevski, was passed in my law outside this bill. Expressed because there are differences of opinion on this subject. I don't see any point in this argument having more or less arguments. We don't know what the consequences are going to be for Ukraine if we arm ourselves, as Czernovetsky's fellow citizens call it, because in this situation, the failure and the situation where people today are beyond survival, you know, it could be an explosion that we can't predict. For I do not think it right when, for example, it is suggested that we arm those who guard with short - force weapons. Whom Are They Protected? Oligarchs, bandits guard. Now give them official IDs and official weapons so they can do it all. It's a big threat, because, excuse me, I don't know how the main population that needs this protection can buy a gun, for example, for $500. So I think it's fundamentally important that this issue, which today is extremely controversial, be brought out of the question under discussion. And the last. I would like to take the following into account when deciding on this law. There are huge interests of arms dealers. The short-range arms market is an extremely serious market, I've already named the number that the price of one gun, you know that demand is going to be huge and there's a part of people who want to adopt this law, just to solve their financial issues and get rich. I think this part should also go beyond this law. I mean, I urge you in the Supreme Council to settle arms issues, but not in the interests of the bandits, not in the interests of those who want to trade arms, but in the interests of the population, in the interests of the state, so that this situation is transparent, understood that everyone knows their rights and obligations as defined by law, not by official instructions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u156	There will be questions. Please ask questions. I ask you to sign up for a question to Joseph Vicentiovich of Winsky. Please put on board a list of the names of the national deputies enrolled. Vladimir Yavorovsky faction "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u157	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Jovkovsky, Lvivščina Dear reporter, the Montenegrin thesis that we need to arm ourselves, of course, is very correct and if Lenin really hadn't changed this whole policy, we would be armed today and not have as many problems as we have. I have a question for you. How will we act, and how will we arm ourselves if the law of the Chernewite is suddenly passed? How do you look at, let's say, because most of our respect, we respect and love her, she's armed, she's protected by the militia, and so on, so that we can only issue arms to the opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u158	First of all, I'd like to protect Lenin. Because Lenin never said anything like that. Lenin was a serious man and said that social relations should be changed. And the weapon was just an element, when those who made these social relationships didn't want to go voluntarily and there was no other way out, they took up arms. And I, believe me, will find a weapon without the arms law. Because if they lead people to this situation, they will find a weapon, and if they do not find it, they will kill those in need with shovels. And yet, I am in favour of having the option that is proposed, which is an alternative to my bill, not yet accepted. I say again, we need to study the situation and consequences very deeply, from what will happen in the state if we allow guns and guns to arm the entire population of Ukraine. It's in America. They think it's normal. But there's a historical tradition. And what happens in Ukraine, I don't know. Since we don't know and there's no prognosis, let's just stay out of this nonsense. Or maybe after a certain period of time, if we see, study this situation, and consider it necessary, we'll make some changes, one article, and we'll add that question, and then we'll know that it's going to be solved. I believe that for one thing, this law must not be passed. And he was not accepted three times for one reason, which was a very narrow question, to organize trade in pistols and revolvers. This should be forbidden. I don't think it's necessary to do that today, to accept this law peacefully, the time will come, if there's a convincing argument on this side, then we'll arm not only the security structures. That's what I'm stressing. My position is, if you are armed, it is right to arm the opposition and the proletariat.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u159	Alexei Malinowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u160	Thank you. Alexei Malinowski, Socialist faction, Cherkaschina Joseph Vicentiyovich, I understand that two conceptually different approaches to the concept of this law are one in your application, the other in Mr. Czernewecki's application. In this regard, two questions. The first question is, how do we react to Mr. Chernewecki's rerun of weapons is an element of democracy and freedom? That's the first one. And please comment on the event that took place in Lviv literally three days ago when a law enforcement officer fired a gun, there was a conflict on the bus with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u161	Well, I'll start at the end. Of course, when a law enforcement officer uses weapons in public transportation, this is not normal, and this is already a matter for the prosecutor’s office and other structures. I say again, they're hungry too. We should understand that generals, perhaps working in the police, have something to eat. And if he's an honest cop, he's hungry too. We know what their salary is, we know what their budget costs are. That's why it is. But we can't do it without it. The state is a tool of violence, there are structures in this state that perform this function of violence, and we need to understand that. And we can't destroy the state because some fool used the wrong weapon in that state. And as for the element of democracy, well, it's hard for me to comment, but I think that democracy in the sense that if one goes with a gun then, it's democratic when the other goes somewhere with a gun, not a pitchfork. Maybe that's democracy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u162	Sergei Matvienkov. European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u163	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Joseph Vicentievich, the law is of course complex, and we know that for five years, whatever they say here, no matter how much the authorship here is, there are five years of discussions about this law. This is not the first time that this question has been raised in the Hall. And so many deputies, so many, probably, and opinions. Most importantly, the most difficult thing in this law is that we have to write out the concept of weapons, the standards for weapons. We must issue the most important issue, the mechanism for the use of weapons. If we are talking about the use of weapons, he should know clearly how to use them, when and under what conditions. When a soldier goes into service, he has clear instructions and mechanisms, when and under what conditions he can apply it. But I would like to ask you one question, so to speak, where our positions do not match you. If a State is unable to protect its own citizen, a normal citizen, why do we not allow a citizen to defend himself? Your opinion on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u164	The first part of your question is a very clear resolution in this bill, which we are the authors. It clearly states what a weapon is, what it is, how it is used, how it is bought, who sells it, who buys it, who issues licences, who watches it. That's what this law is all about. And what is secondary in this law is that it is necessary to protect a particular person. You can put that outside this law at all, you know? And here's this one point, it's melting the whole law that needs to be passed in order to essentially resolve these relations. That's the fundamental difference, I understand, under this law. And here's the last topic you're talking about, I'm saying again, I'm here to protect myself, but I'm against using weapons for banditry. And where's the edge, when this self-defense works, when a man buys a gun and waits for the bandits to come at him or attack him, he'll notice him, or when he drinks 100 grams and goes off that gun. That's the whole problem, so we need to look at this situation. If we improve the argument that our society has matured, that our citizens are so conscious and understand what weapons are, and they are willing to use them exclusively for self-defence, then I will be in favour of resolving this situation as proposed by Mr. Chernovetsk. Until I get convincing arguments that this will not be turned into that we will arm whole gangs of minors and so forth, and there will be no shooting, as in the United States of America, in schools and so on, in public transport and so forth, I will not call you to vote for it and I will not vote for it. That's the problem. I mean, I don't think this topic is working today, it's not studied, it's not proven by professionals, it's not proven to be experimenting in this part that I just find unacceptable. I mean, I'm categorically opposed, I think we need to be very careful about this. But in order for this caution not to overturn the possibility of adopting an arms law today, it is necessary to adopt an arms law without that position, and then this position can be amended as a change to that law when we are ready, when we examine the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u165	Thank you, Joseph Vicentiovich, time is up, thank you. The report invites the head of the committee’s subcommittee on law enforcement matters, Neciporuk Vladimir Pavlovich, please, Vladimir Pavlovich, to be brief and concise.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u166	194 constituency, Hmelnichtina. Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and thank you all. I'm a constant follower and a proponent, and a pulsator in terms of solving the problem of the ratio of firearms, including short-lived, separate and human beings in a democratic, legal society. The constitutional right of a citizen to self-defence set out in article 27 of the Constitution of Ukraine must be properly implemented. Firearms are not the only tools of effective self - defense. I've been studying this question for over five years. During this time, he has accumulated and processed substantial factual material on this issue in other nations of the world. In fact, all the developed countries of the world have appropriate legislation. The authors of the Karmazin project, the Czernovetsk project, and other bills, working on a document of concern for a situation in which an average citizen today found himself. In the streets of Ukrainian cities, gunfire, automatic lines, explosions, and criminals are not interested in the law allowing them to buy and use weapons. Firearms became a tool for the blood business. A law-abiding citizen, including a national MP, government officials, yesterday’s police officer, counter-intelligence, military intelligence, military forces, the state forbids the possession of a gun, deprives him of his rights to protect his life, the lives of his family, the lives of other fellow citizens from armed assault. It forbids answering a bullet to a criminal's bullet. The Ambassador of the Republic of Latvia asked us that the Arms Act, adopted by the Supreme Council of Latvia in 1993, allowed citizens who had reached the age of 21, as well as foreign members of the diplomatic corps to use shorthand weapons for self-defence up to 9 millimeters. Mr. Ambassador further noted his words, quote: “The main measure of the usefulness and suitability of this law is the absence of cases of unlawful use of legal weapons. Armed crimes are generally committed by illegal weapons. There are data available on the successful use of weapons against robbers, including rural residents of the elderly, who would be victims of robbery or murder if they did not have the opportunity to give the perpetrators armed resistance. The concept of the right to bear arms makes it possible for a law-abiding citizen to protect himself, his property by all legal means and compels the offender to consider the possibility of armed resistance to the intended victim. Before the law was passed, the offender could be sure that the victim was not armed. Subsequently, Latvia intends to authorize the use of electric shocks and other devices” - and so on. Similar legislation exists in Lithuania, Estonia. In the Baltic States, since the introduction of arms legislation, there has been a general decline in the number of violent crimes of so - called street crime, even home thefts. Honorable colleagues, respected fellow citizens, the Ukrainian people of ancient times, when they saw the enemy in front of them, took up arms and struck him down. An armed criminal is a real enemy of the Ukrainian people. He kills innocent defenseless people, kills and maims children, old men, and women, and he is no better than an essayist. To leave the Ukrainian people unarmed on their own with an armed blasphemy. On its own, because today, unfortunately, the police are unable to stop and punish the murderers because they kill the police. Thus, an honest man, a police colonel, was killed on the street in Simferopol, the head of the Office for Combating Crime, and the killer is still at large today. If we do not solve the problem the way our neighbors have solved it, each parliamentarian and government official becomes free or out of the will to participate in any subsequent murder by an armed gunman. There is a problem. It must be resolved as quickly as possible and as correctly as possible in the interests of society, in the interests of every law - abiding citizen as possible, not in the interests of bandits. By majority of the votes, the Committee on Law Enforcement decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the Karmazin, Chernevski and others bill, to accept it as a basic and generally law of Ukraine. The bill of Joseph of Winsky and others is not supported by the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u167	Thank you. Sit down, please. I'm asking for my first deputy. Please, but here's a committee proposal. The co-rapporteur doesn't ask the question. If you insist, please. Dear colleagues! Five minutes, please sign up for the question. I'm going as the committee suggests. List the names of the national MPs who are registered. People's Deputy Permanent, faction of Ukraine. You don't? Basil Nadrag, please. Is there a Basil Nadrag? None. Yes. Turn on the microphone, please, Vasil Nadragha.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u168	Dear reporter! Please answer that question. Is this a legitimate way to protect a citizen?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u169	Even more than legitimate. This will be God’s way of protecting a citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u170	Basil Nadrag, please. Then you're wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u171	The only question I would like to ask may be more general than today. And yet. We live in a particular country, where, unfortunately, because of the different circumstances of the weapons, there is more than enough. We're legalizing the situation now. As always, and naturally, from everything legal, something will always go into an illegal element. If it doesn't work out for the good conversation that we are today arming the population for protection, we will first and foremost arm those who will go to that population, including by means of this law, to find a weapon with which they will then create whatever they want.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u172	Dear colleagues! No one in any way, and how many countries of the world have gone along this path, no reported weapons are at fault. Crimes are only committed by illegal, illegal weapons.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u173	National MP Spivacuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u174	Vladimir Spivacuk, Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hmelničina Dear Volodymyr Pavlovich, please say. It is known that bandits, so-called commercial security officers today, are still carrying weapons -- and others today are still carrying weapons -- because they use their fists, not the law. And what guarantee is there that the bill you're proposing will not stop the spread of the same weapon? On the contrary. I think it's going to spread out, and that's what the police think. That's the first question. And the second question. Please urge the committee to refuse the Vinsky bill. Specific words. I'd like to hear them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u175	Answering the second question. For one thing, the committee was rehearsing three times because the drafters of the bill did not come to the committee, and for the second time, the law of Winsky and others came when the bill. which Karmazina, the Chernewetsk and others, was gathered together with three bills and there was no bill at the time. And when we made a decision that one of the three had been made and sent to the Supreme Council for consideration, the bill also appeared. This bill is a complete copy of that bill that made Chernewicki and Karmazin, but here it is written about granting the right to acquire short-walled firearms. First question. On the first question, Your Honor, just think from a psychological point of view, the criminal, going to his crime, which he's committed, taking away money, killing a citizen and all that, he's confident today that a citizen can't be protected, and the militia can't be found, and in 20 days, you understand that for yourself, that's why. And when this law is passed, it does not mean that every citizen should have a weapon, but every criminal, every gift will be sure that the citizen has a weapon and will give him a reprisal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u176	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u177	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear reporter, why don't you say that the legislative field has begun to be defined and the bills have been introduced since the year 95 and there has been a lot of development. And why don't you say that not exactly a copy of our bill is a bill that was now presented as an alternative bill, but actually an MFD bill, but a copy of the Russian arms law with all the troubles and so on. Why don't you say so?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u178	Thank you for asking. I answered those questions, and I was asked specific questions that were answered on the committee. I answered the questions that were on the committee, and I answered the question of what law is the lobbying IMF, which is the real law, let every national MP deal with it. The Supreme Council as a whole in the voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u179	Thank you, Volodymyr Pavlovich. Time is up. Please sit down. Replica of the People’s Deputy of Viennese. What do you have, Santa?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, I must answer the line that has been said. I'm telling you 100 percent that when I prepare this law, I've never had a conversation with any of the Ministry's employees. I didn't communicate with any of the Ministry's employees. The drafters of the bill, who drafted it, were written at the end. There was no secret, as it were. And as for the arguments that were about my bill, I'm going to say that, in fact, there was no rejection of the bill, there were formal reasons that we said ours had passed and yours had arrived late. That's it. Although he came by the Rules when it was necessary for him to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u181	Thank you. Rudzkowski, please. For what reason do you have a replica?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u182	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhajlovich, I would like to express my reply to the question under discussion. The point is, if we really follow the logic of the just speaking reporter, nothing will happen. If the racketeers come and threaten with fists, they will come tomorrow armed with guns and guns and will demand money or bribe until they shoot. The militia can't intervene. This is the first time. Second, you know, a very difficult social situation, and if there's a hundred-year-old column on the street of Kiev, but armed demonstrators, it's very helpful to democratize and stabilize our political situation if we follow that logic. Although I am a representative of the opposition, I believe that arming a nation at such a time, of course, will earn millions to sell arms, but dozens of lives will be lost by accident, either by drinking or by something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u183	Thank you. We continue to discuss the matter. I ask you to express your position to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Presented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Kornienko Mikhailo Vasilovich, First Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u184	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Indeed, the Ministry did not take part in the drafting of laws, nor did the National Deputies of Carmazin, nor in the draft law submitted by the deputy of Winsky and others. But still, both of these copyright groups have taken the basis, and I have to say, the law that was drafted eight years ago by the Ministry, with all the changes and everything else. We do not agree in the main with the fact that we are entitled to short - term weapons. We argued all of this. I'm very short on time now, I won't take it away from you, but the gun is not a panacea from all the trouble, he thinks he can't save everything. This is the first position. Second position. This is something that cannot be preferred to some categories of society in the use of short - term weapons. Whoever it is, whether it's a deputy or an official. And the third. We think that interest here is more economic than social in adopting this norm that gives us the right to short-lived weapons. Therefore, the IMF is in principle supporting the law that has passed by the People's Deputies of Vienna and other people's deputies, but we suggest that we take it as a basis and then work on it. And we asked that the IMF not be excluded from this process of legislation, that we be invited and, in the second reading, we will provide assistance to both experts and everyone else in order to work out this law, because it is essential to society and the state. And such a short trailer. So, as far as the lions' events are concerned, our employee. The flag of the police, he started shooting when his ribs were broken, and he was shooting, by the way, not with a gun, not with a gun, but with a gun. It's designed for firing rubber bullets. And these rubber bullets, by the way, didn't do as much damage as they did to him, and he's in serious condition right after the surgery. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u185	For what reasons? Wait, what's the motive? We've finished the discussion. For what reasons? Please move on to the discussion. I'm asking you, one minute, then it'll be motivated. Well, please, it's a hidden opportunity to speak. There are other people, please calm down. Dear colleagues! We're just running out of time, let's take another 10 minutes to talk, given the relevance of this problem. Okay? Did you sign up? Please show me who signed up. Yes, dear fellows, let's vote then. Now there are 30 minutes left on the board to consider the matter. I suggest 10 minutes before we take a break to consider this question. There's more, let's vote. No questions, dear fellows! We have 160 drafts this plenary week, not one weapon. That's it! Yes, 10 minutes, dear fellows! Please, National Deputy Puzakov, Communist faction. Then we'll vote again if we have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u186	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Kirovgrad. Having read the draft arms law, I must say that this law is necessary, but in my view not everything is acceptable to our modern society. Article 9, for example, provides that citizens of Ukraine shall have the right to purchase weapons and ammunition in Ukraine. I believe that our crisis-criminal society is far from there. Who can acquire a weapon? The one with the big money. These are usually criminal elements. So they already have it. This paragraph will allow them to legalize the mass of illicitly converted weapons. According to the press, only in the past year, 724 crimes were committed with the acceptance of firearms in Ukraine, of which 198 were intentional killings of more than 5,000 guns were taken from organized groups of 257 firearms. Last year, more than 100 circumcisions, pistols, machine guns were seized only in Kirovgrad. In our area, 35 short-lived crimes were committed, including 10 killings, 9 robberies, and what would happen if all weapons were allowed to be carried. Such a permit would significantly increase crime in the country, increase economic, political, commercial, hooligan and drunken divisions. In general, the draft law provides for the arms of all and all. I propose the first. Article 9 deals with Ukrainian citizens to supplement the words: “In accordance with their official duties and to grant them the right to self-defence by means other than assault rifles, pistols and revolvers”. Second. The Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, to other departments with firearms, to strengthen control and responsibility for its storage, including the seized one, which is often kept in the safes and desks of investigators. Third. In article 16, in the first paragraph, a decision may be taken to replace words by a decision, in article 46 the general phrase on liability for a violation of the law shall be replaced by a specific responsibility or a reference to a specific legal one. And that responsibility must be strengthened. Fourth. In fact, rather than forbid the media from showing and promoting killings, violence and human abuse, such as the illicit proliferation of firearms and the propaganda of violence are catalyzing aggression and the cruelty of criminal acts. Crime has become more widespread, organized, technically equipped, young and aggressive, that is, all State and non-State bodies and organizations, and all media must fight crime and illegal possession of weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u187	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine, please prepare for Konovaluku. You don't? Then get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u188	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, reverend people of Ukraine! How many lies have come out of this rostrum today, scary, scary. The Assistant Secretary of State, Kornienko, says that none of the projects were here, so she didn't take part in the IMF. And I'm going to show you how, at your request of your predecessors, I've drafted a bill in the past calling on the national MPs. I'll show you your proposal from the IMF. You just don't know the left hand that does the rights, you have a lot of deputy ministers, so you don't know, and I'll show you how I wrote your proposal to reach consensus. At the time, we did not know that there were some provocations among us that would simply help us to break the laws. So, dear friends, how many lies have come out of this hall today, which is hard to say, including from this rostrum. Where you speak here, in this law that was drafted, which was voted twice by Odessa voters in 1994, in 1998, these paragraphs were introduced into the electoral program. People voted for it. Where is everyone's right to acquire weapons? He's gone. At the suggestion of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, it was removed. And it is now envisaged that people of only 25 years of age have the right to a firearm and to a variety of hunting weapons, not as in Moldova - out of 18 and not as in Estonia - out of 18. 25 years is the first condition. The second condition is non-judicial. The third condition is that they have studied legislation. Fourth condition. That the Ministry will give them permission. Fifth condition. It is the fact that these persons are merely a cut off from certain ministerial servants. They're national MPs. Why? Because they are asking questions that are very acute, and they are facing serious threats, and that is what is being done. These are representatives of the court, the prosecution, the investigation, the criminal investigation, who are retired, and then they are met by the criminals they planted, and they are unarmed. So whose mill are we gonna pour this water on today, whose mill? Keep going. This is not to say that today we are asking questions about making a cadastre, a state - owned weapons cadastre. And it's over. I want to tell you, I mean, it's all completely overtaken today. And finally, I want to read to you from the conclusion of the Committee on Law Enforcement, an assessment of an alternative, so-called, non-alternative bill and could not be adopted by any regulation at all. The rating is: "On the basis of the Russian Arms Act, the authors did not take into account the existing Ukrainian legislative field, which has its own laws on property rights, business, licensing, certification, which have already passed the test of time and hardly require substantial changes. The arms business and the arms market of Ukraine remain a problem." And so on. Those aren't my words, those are the words signed by Moses, head of the committee, judge of higher qualifications.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u189	Andrew School, please. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u190	School Andrews, Yulia Block Timoshenko, political party of the Ukrainian National Assembly You know, I'd like to tell you, starting right now with the topic of war in Iraq. You know why I can't believe Saddam Hussein was a dictator, a usurper, and a totalitarian leader? Because he was the leader of an armed nation. That's why I won't believe it. Because an armed nation cannot be ruled by a dictator. And that's why there are so many opponents who issue firepower to the population. And unfortunately, the Karmazin, Chernewsky, Nechiporah and Rimaruk laws do not allow the people to be armed. Too bad. Only a small, very small part of it. I'll tell you more, right now we have to give ourselves an honest answer to our questions -- we're for democracy or against it; we're for a citizen to have the right to defend himself against an armed bandit or not. And the second. When they come out here and say they're gonna arm the bandits. Well, first of all, the weapons license will be granted. Mr. Carmazin, please let our representative go! The Ministry of Internal Affairs will either give arms to the bandits or not, for it will allow, permit. If we apriors believe that they will sell to bandits, there are other questions. Next. Next question. I can only give you guarantees in one thing that now the entire criminal world is armed. We're getting help here, and the police will confirm that I found this weapon today, and I'm going to go to the police. This help is put in your pocket. A second pocket contains a weapon, and a man with a permit to engage in illegal arms trafficking in Ukraine. He's being hunted. He shows this help. It's $200, because that's what happened, and it's still going with the same weapon to commit its crimes. I don't know who the racket was coming to, armed with fists. I'd like to meet this entrepreneur. The racket comes armed with guns, the fists come from armed idiots only. I apologize for such a strong expression. Because nobody. They come with guns and everything. I'm primarily talking to colleagues of communists and socialists. Support this bill. This is going to be a breakthrough. Only national electorates and representatives of law enforcement agencies who have retired will be armed. But this is going to be a breakthrough in the legislative process. These things can be settled and regulated later. Believe me, the armed people are a people free and no one can convince me of anything else. It's all the remains of the past. I emphasize why such problems arise in every Arab country when it comes to the rule of authority. Because there's only a legal way in the country of armed people, because the word "arms" is always stronger, and otherwise how do you protect yourself from assaulting your own life against an armed thug? Only with a gun in his hand. Next, the last one literally. To say that the oligarchs and bandits will buy up arms and give it to someone else. Now a rubber bullet, a gun, a rubber bullet costs 280 bucks. Two hundred and eighty dollars! It's not available on the rubber ball. Of course, it's more expensive to have a short- standing firearms, and so I urge you to vote and support it in the first reading, and we'll figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u191	Victor Mironenko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u192	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, Communist faction. Respectable compatriots! I propose to support the Vinsky bill in its first reading, but in no way does it support the Chernevski bill, as it is contrary to the interests of the people of Ukraine. In fact, what he is proposing is, first of all, an opportunity to make a living through the sale and sale of weapons by private individuals on blood, on the plight of people, on the rise of crime. In the United States of America, there is already such experience and there is a law in force. Every four hours, the biggest crime in the United States is killed there! Does that not teach us anything? Of course, we know and in the U.S., bankers are willing to produce weapons and sell to individuals, and that's what they do for a living. But I'd like to draw the attention of a Christian banker, because it's not possible to do that, to live on blood, to kill people. This is unacceptable! And probably. It would have been better if it had reduced the interest, the bank interest on the loan, ensured the normal development of the economy. He now destroys, portraying himself as a benefactor who takes care of the people, destroys businesses, destroys the economy, destroys the people. Please, please. Please do not in any way support this draft of the Czernovecki bill, support the Vinsky bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u193	Thank you. Matvienkov, please. I'm asking you very briefly, we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u194	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear friends, I have asked you to speak for me. First. Whatever we say here, the bill has been in Parliament for many years, and we have talked a lot about it. Today, there are dozens of arguments for one side, dozens of arguments for the other side as well. But while we are here today, we cannot but note the fact that we have been polarized in society. The first is a criminal world armed, and it needs to be seen, honestly, openly and without being seen. Second. Come to the market today. Unfortunately, there is a underground arms sale in the open. Well, in the open, I mean, with certain channels, so to speak, you can buy weapons. That too, so to speak, exists. Third moment. Our law-abiding man is bound by laws, rules of conduct, and he cannot transgress the law. Here are the three dogmas that we must consider to date when deciding on the bill. Therefore, we need to write out or resolve at least the main nodes. The first is the security services. We have the largest industrial enterprises with billions of billions of dollars worth of assets. However, these security services are told: hand over your weapons because you do not have the right to have them, only the police are entitled to do so today, even though they have had them for many years. Go make a deal, have security bring you this facility for huge funds, for huge money. This is the first issue that needs to be resolved today. Second question. If a State is unable to protect a citizen, let us give him an opportunity to protect himself. But. On the one hand, what do we have to decide? The first is who to give, under what conditions to give. A system of control and responsibility. That's what we have to say. And when we write all these rules in the law, I think we'll leave then. There's another dangerous side and one disease. Today, there is a desire to trade arms in the country. And here we have to say clearly and put it in our hands: no! Only the prerogatives of the State, only under State control. Only to the doom of the State! And when we cut off all these moments, I think we're going to solve this problem. None of the bills under consideration meets these requirements. I would be happy to send everyone to work out a new bill, indeed, but not to put it in a long box. I would therefore like to propose a new harmonized bill for re-reading, which would meet the requirements that I have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u195	Thank you. Dear colleagues, With the procedure, please, Vladimir Cherniak. Well, you've done it twice. Come on, stop making that conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to point out that the quality of the bill depends decisively on the activities of the professional committees. At the level of the profile committee in this case there may be a breakup of two sides of the problem. There are two sides to the problem. First. This is a regulation of the armament of those who need self-defence. And a second. This is regulation of arms circulation. And we need to put this together in a single bill. The Wynsky bill focuses on one thing, the Chernevski bill, Karmazin does on another. So, I think we need to bring these two sides together, and only then will we have a quality bill. That's the first one. And the second. A deputy's weapon is a word. If a bandit kills a deputy, it won't be a sensation. If an MP kills a bandit, it'll be a sensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u197	So 30 seconds for the final word to the drafters. Please, Joseph Vicentiovich, do you need me? Please, the microphone. And get Carmagine ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u198	Dear National Deputies! People who represent an alternative project are acting in such a very strict, confidential way. I wouldn't ask that question again, I never said that I was a brilliant man there who wrote this bill himself, before we went a long time. We can totally solve these problems. But language is based on what base and where to go. I propose to take as a base what will certainly be voted on by the Supreme Council to all because against what I propose no one today denies. And if the authors of the bill convince themselves of their position in the short-term arms trade, the use of weapons by all deputies, the second reading of this article can be added, voted. But if we go the other way, their position, which is related to short - term weapons, virtually rejects the possibility of adopting a law as such. And then we're in an old position that a very serious issue that is affecting the lives of a very large number of people is not regulated by legislation. In principle, in this difference, I propose to go from smaller to larger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u199	Thank you, Yuri Carmazin, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u200	The Party of Protectors of Motherland Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The language went first, and it was completely wrong to say that the issue of weapons production, ammunition and weapons repair was not settled. The language went and this was one of the questions why the adoption of the bills was delayed for a long time, three times passed differently, and then the committee worked on it. It's just about the weapons of domestic production -- that's the first thing, the native one. I'm underlining. The other one. Is a native made somewhere other than the state? It's not made anywhere. The other one. We are told that someone is arming the people is not the way we feel about them. We're just comparing that little million-dollar Estonia has 100,000 weapons on its hands. I would like to thank today the drafters of the bill, this is the people's deputies of Romeruku, the National MP of the past call by the Lieutenant-General of the Nedrigailo militia, General Bilas, Muhin Volodymyr Vasilovich, the deputy of the previous vocation, Danielchuk, the deputy of the last vocation, Hamic, Bernadski, Professor Fedorov Mikoli Petrovich, other authors who worked on this bill who put their soul into it. And what I'm saying is that these issues that you're talking about, we still have the right to settle them in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And there's absolutely no danger here. The only thing to accept as first reading is our bill, not our so-called "alternative." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, the draft arms law has been completed. As you can see, we have different positions, sometimes polar opposites. I think what we need to do is set ourselves up in the Supreme Council and separate the lobbying of arms sales from creating the right conditions for self-defense, because we sometimes want to solve some of our own problems under the cover of human protection. And most of all, we have to prevent the country from being transformed into a completely protective structure. And lastly, as to how the armed national deputies of Ukraine are. Since this broadcast is going on, I think that among the national MPs, the absolute majority have no weapons. That's why I think today we're going to ask the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, which of the national deputies has weapons and which, in order to inform both the listeners and the national deputies of Ukraine. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00.
