ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:32]] Registered -414 There are 414 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Rybikin Pavel Borisovich. Let's welcome him and wish him well. Ladies and gentlemen, today the media are celebrating their professional festival. I think you're going to support me in that it's a state-wide, country-wide holiday. Let us welcome the journalists with their professional festival, and let us declare our kind treatment of them with your flurry of applause. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Rules do not provide for the announcement of parliamentary requests, but since you insist, I could quickly announce them, and then at 12 o'clock we would not take a break in order to consider the bills. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies - Proskuratova, Karnauh, Golub, Rudzikowski - to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the transfer to the municipal property of the territorial community of M. Odessa, the Fountain sanatorium and Perlina. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:03:10]] For 109 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies - Yukhnovsky, Hare and others - to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the cessation of arbitrary activities of the Poznežilbud construction company in the adjuvant territory of Panas Mirno and the bulvara of Lesi Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:03:48]] For 1052 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of constitutional rights of the inhabitants of Kyrovgrad, a participant in the Great Homeland War. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:48]] For-140. Decision taken. Petra Toločka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the socio-economic position of civil engineering staff at the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:18]] For 118 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the review of the appeal of citizens of public organizations, the political parties of Donetska on violations of the constitutional rights of citizens and the deliberate deterrence of the development of Ukrainian language through the elimination of Ukrainian schools and classes in Donetsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:56]] For-151 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov and Alexander Bandurka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of capital repair and reconstruction of the premises of the Kosovo branch of the National University of Internal Affairs. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:25]] For-152. Decision taken. Vassil Nadraga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on measures to eliminate submergment in Lugansk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:49]] For 196 Decision taken. Anatolia Átovajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of the project after the completion of the construction of the Jenakijevo-Vuglegirsky gas pipeline. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:16]] For 116 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the protection of the rights and interests of the military. Pensioners of the Ministry of Defense who suffer from tuberculosis and from refusing to transfer the Alupkin Military Clinic to another department of defence. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:48]] For 202 Decision taken. Mikoli Shershun to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of compensation payments to education workers for the years 1997-2002. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:17]] For 218. Decision taken. Anatolia Kukoba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the legality of the administration of the Poltava District Authority for raising tariffs for water heating services. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:45]] For the 180. Decision taken. Tarasa Steckova to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the recognition of citizen Paramut resident of Lviv by the creditor of the Bank of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:15]] For 109 Decision taken. Anatolia Matvienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the privatization sites of the UDAHK Fund "Ukrpapirprom". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:48]] For-127 Decision taken. Sergey Slabenka to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine, on the status of the security of the Volin County courts. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:17]] For-99 Decision taken. Vladimir Simonova to the Minister of Culture and Arts of Ukraine for the financing of the renovation of the cultural building of the village Melnica Podilska Borstevsky district of Ternopil. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:47]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Tarasa Steckova to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Kirilenka regarding the restructuring of the debt of the Ukrainian Scientific Research Centre of the Native Minerals, credited to the State Innovation Company. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:19]] For 115 Decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the abuse of officials of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:48]] For-170. Decision taken. Istwan Haydosh to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the purpose of reforming the Issavsky and Vinogradov district military commissioners of the Zakarpat region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:15]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Groups of National Deputies Bondarenko, Crnvolenko and others to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the provision of official information on the reasons for delaying consideration of the petitions made by the city of Kiev on the registration of the Statute of the territorial community of Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:48]] For 180. Decision taken. Groups of national members of Gladys and others, only 16 national deputies, to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the replacement of the precautionary action against Leonid Kozachenko. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:16]] For-152. Decision taken. Anatolia Nastawayko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the payment of debts on salary to the employees of the Anakyyev Building Authority of Donbasdomremont. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:45]] For 104 Decision taken. Tarasa Cranovila to the Attorney General of Ukraine for confirmation of the arrests of a group of police officers in Kiev in connection with the Gongadze case. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:14]] For 139 Decision taken. Stepan Cloud to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the fact that the officials of the Procurator's Office of the Righteous District of Kiev, the Prosecutor's Office of Kiev and the Administration of Kiev's SIZO number 13 have exceeded their official authority, which has led to illegal detention at the expense of the accused Vitruk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:50]] For-99 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine to ensure the enforcement of legislation by the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Protection against the Chernobyl disaster in response to the situation on the Black and Asian seas. [[requisition]] I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:25]] For-146 Decision taken. Victor King to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the statement by the head of the Montenegrin District Administration, Theofil Bauer, to bribe officials of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration of $600,000 to remove him from office. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:00]] For 201 Decision taken. Gregory Omelchenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, heads of the Ukrainian Security Service, heads of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine, heads of the Court of Auditors of Ukraine on the verification of the acquisition of state administration of Italian furniture by the President of Ukraine for more than $2 million,600,000 for the offices of the President of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:41]] For-163 Decision taken. Mikhail Siatini, head of the executive board and liquidators of the bank "Ukraine" for the return by the bank "Ukraine" of the charity "Karitas Maramrose". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:09]] For-98 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies: Puzakov, Poliyet, Sas - to the Minister of Transport in relation to the mass dissatisfaction of voters in a number of areas in the Kirovograd region by changing the route of the Kirovograd Kiev train. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:39]] For 128 Decision taken. National deputies: Red, Alexiyuk, Shirko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the theft of the memorial board of Meleti Smótricki, Ukrainian writer, philosopher, church and educational director at the Holy Trinity Temple of the Derman Monastery in the Plain region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:13]] For-137 Decision taken. Bogdan Kostinuk to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the theft of the state property of the wood-processing company Osvolod Ivano-Frankiv region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:42]] For 133 Decision taken. Anatolia Orzhachowski, head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting, Ukraine, for the financing of unfinished construction, installation and acquisition of technical equipment for the relay center located in the village of Olga High-Pile district of Hersonian. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:17]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I have received the attention of the leaders of the three factions. - The Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and the "Our Ukraine" bloc. The substance of the statement is read out. The SPI factions, "Our Ukraine" and BUT require that we give the floor at the beginning of the meeting for a statement in connection with the extraordinary events in the Chernigian constituency no. 206 National Deputy Boko Ivan Sidorovich. Since this is not provided for by the Rules, I would like to put to the vote - I would like your attention - to give the floor to the application. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:20:15.]] For 222 The decision is not taken. I'm putting this proposal on your mind for the second and last time. [[10:20:41]] For 227 Please, three minutes, Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, I took the floor to report on the extraordinary situation that had arisen before the interim elections in the Chernigian constituency No. 206. The government stretched to the last limit. Everything is done to ensure victory, more precisely to draw the victory of Bank candidate Jaroslavsky. To that end, the electoral field is literally cleared. Last night, it was taken off the registration of Natalko Vitrenko. Everything is now being done to remove and discredit the only candidate from the united opposition — the extraparty Dmitry of Ivanov. Tonight he was greeted with a kind of journalist’s day, he is a famous poet and journalist, and tonight his election headquarters was destroyed, the computer was broken, and everything else that was there was at headquarters. In recent days, the police have detained six agitators from the Ivanov team. A listening device and transmitter have been detected in the electoral headquarters yard. Authorities are insolently aspiring for Jaroslavsky to threaten business leaders with layoffs. Kuchma and his team are demonstrating in Chernig's cynical disregard for the law, openly mocking democracy. And all of this is because Dmitri Ivanovov has certainly taken first place today in the affections of the blacks who have shown sociological surveys. The regime wants to rape the will of the electorate. In fact, in the example of Chernigov, we see the horror of democracy going on in Ukraine. This is the real face of the political reform behind Kuchma, and this is what you're doing in the presidential election rehearsal. The factions of the united opposition are fiercely protesting the banditry of power in Montenegro, reminding us of the imminent responsibility that will fall upon the heads of those who are ruining democracy in Ukraine. "The One Opposition" urges the voters of Chernigov to cast their votes for the non-partisan Dmitri Ivanov. And we demand from the Attorney General's Office that severe punishment be imposed on those who are in the face of gangs before the elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the main directions of budgetary policy for 2004 is under review. May I have your attention, please? Such rules of procedure are proposed. Report of the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, to 15 minutes. The answers to the questions are up to 10 minutes. The budget committee's report is up to 10 minutes. The answers to the questions are up to 10 minutes. Discussion is 45 minutes. No objections? Please, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u4	Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences, in a speech or statement that has now come out of this rostrum, the National MP of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has stolen a mistake. The Montenegrin constituency does not have the only candidate from the opposition forces, but there are two candidates from the Communist Party of Yasock and the Socialist Party of Ivanov. So I'm paying attention to voters coming to the polls on Sunday, June 8, to make the right choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u5	Yes, dear colleagues, we agreed on the rules for dealing with this issue with clarification. Peter Alexiovich also requests 15 minutes for a report. The first Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Azarov Mikola Janović, has the floor to report on the main directions of budgetary policy for 2004.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u6	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Today, the main areas of the budget policy for 2004 are proposed for your attention. How important this issue is is once again evidenced by the great attention given by the President of Ukraine to the main strategic directions of budgetary policy. You are all familiar with the President's address on the most fundamental issues of budgetary policy next year. In recent times, the Supreme Council and the Government have done much in the development of the budgetary planning system. Expansion of treasury, public and local budgets. But we certainly have more to do with you. First of all, I will focus on the specificities of the budget for 2004. I would like to point out that the only source of budget replenishment is the national economy, from industry to every economic and national actor taken. Therefore, in the formulation of budgetary policies for the coming year, the primary objective of the Government is to strengthen finance for enterprises, households. Balance the resources and needs of the State, industries, regions. You and I, the distinguished people's deputies, have laid not a bad foundation for the formation of the budget, which I mean. First of all, this tax reform on irresistibility, which has been discussed in recent years, has finally moved from a dead point of view and you have been able to solve serious problems in these months, such as the reduction of tax rates, business returns and the recent adoption of the new Law on Taxation of the Income of Individuals, which has reduced the tax burden on citizens to 13 per cent. As a result, the income of our citizens will be substantially increased. Much work has been done to prepare a section of the Tax Code dealing with excise collection. The Government hopes that the same constructive work will continue and that by the end of this session we will have adopted a new law on value added tax. And now the working group is working intensively on this legislative act. These and other steps of Parliament and Government should contribute to the serious economic growth of our country. The implementation of the legislation adopted would enable the establishment of a draft budget next year, as required by the President of Ukraine on a new tax basis. By lowering the tax burden, the Government envisages expanding the tax base, abolishing the economically unjustified benefits, which will certainly contribute to the childishization of the economy and allow the legalization of the income of natural and legal persons. We understand that this process is long, that it cannot be solved for one year, but the main problems in this direction will be solved with you this year. Of course, the 2004 budget will be difficult, but we are deliberately taking this step with us. The main directions for 2004 are based on the projection of the main macroeconomic indicators for Ukraine's development, developed in a conservative scenario. Our task is to create conditions for sustained economic growth, conditions for the adoption of an innovative investment model for domestic economic development, competitiveness and social orientation. In general, the Government has identified the following main priorities in the formulation of budgetary policy for 2004. First of all, this is the balance of all State budget indicators. The main objective of budgetary policy is social orientation and, accordingly, an increase in the share of social expenditure. The main parameters are proposed as follows. First, the General Fund of the State Budget should not contain deficits, and the deficit limit for the Special Fund of the State Budget for 2004 should not exceed 0.5 per cent of gross domestic product. The second priority is, in the context of a reduction in the tax burden in 2004, to prevent a reduction in the share of the redistribution of Gross Domestic Product through a consolidated budget compared to 2003, i.e. retaining it at 27.5 per cent of gross domestic product. I repeat that this can only be achieved by reforming tax legislation, from the adoption of legislation to improving tax administration, improving payment discipline, both among operators and improving their budget calculations. And here, more than ever, we need consistency and firmness together, because we declare one thing, and we make completely different decisions, which are constantly providing new and new benefits to individual producers. And it's an unacceptable practice. In this regard, among the areas proposed by the Government, I would like to highlight the restrictions on the loss of economic operators in the past years, which reduce the tax liability on profits. In many countries, the State does not thus allow itself to stimulate loss-making activities. For example, our neighbours Poland and Russia imposed a 50 per cent and 30 per cent limit on the transfer of such amounts. We consider the possibility of setting a 40 per cent limit. Third. We propose that the calculation of non-monetary budgets, as well as any restructuring or cancellation of debts, insecurities of taxable persons, collection of compulsory payments, provision of deferrals or deferrals at their expense be definitively prohibited. Fourth. Identify government borrowing and income from privatization of public property by mutually compensatory sources of budget funding. We believe that the implementation of a balanced debt policy with a view to optimizing the structure, public debt and reducing its volume should reduce the share of budgetary resources allocated to service and public debt. But together with you, we have yet to identify mechanisms that will enable us to manage these processes. Sixth. We guarantee that in 2004 the share of transfers from the State budget to local budgets, as well as the share of local budgets in the consolidated budget, will not be reduced. As is known, the per capita income tax has been set at 13 per cent since 1 January 2004. Our calculations show that we will not allow local budgets to be affected by this decision. Seven. The establishment of inter-budget relations at the village, village, district and district levels should be resolved as soon as possible at the legislative level. The relevant law has already been drafted and will soon be submitted by the Government for consideration by the Supreme Council. Eighth. Policies should continue to promote investment, innovation and development. To that end, it is proposed that the level of capital investments in the 2004 budget be set at not less than the corresponding level this year, but that, when planning capital investments, we should not dissipate, as we did with you this year, but concentrate, indeed, on the critical areas of investment development. The practice of supporting regional budgets by transferring relevant subsidies from the State budget will continue. Ninthly, we will continue to improve the system of existing benefits and compensations, as well as the manner in which they are granted. We believe that a long time ago, when it is necessary to replace the current scheme for targeted cash relief to those who really need it. Another important position is to streamline the streamlining of the network of budgetary institutions. Gradually, there is a need to move from budget institutions to the provision of public services through the public procurement mechanism. Next position. This is the introduction of budget programme passports that will monitor the effectiveness and purpose of budgeting. It is equally important, together with the improvement of the tax system at the legislative level, to limit or suspend certain State programmes or activities that are not provided with budgetary resources or are obsolete. This point is also noted by the President of Ukraine as an effective mechanism for the recovery of the financial system, preventing the increase in debt under the State's obligations. In general, the draft budget policy guidelines for 2004 that you have proposed allow for the balance of all the State budget project indicators to be maintained and strengthened. the social dimension and, most importantly, it provides economic growth, subject to the necessary activities by all actors in the budgetary process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u7	Yes, please sign up for a question at Mikola Janovich Azarov. On the board, please give your names. Yes, Petrenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u8	Thank you. Petrenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Nikolai Janović, it is not clear why the Government is replacing the mechanism for existing benefits and compensation to citizens for targeted assistance. This will make citizens more dependent on local authorities. The pain is that you know that an economically dependent person can never be a free man. Human rights are therefore clearly violated. Especially in the election campaign. And minimum wage. What is the minimum wage?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u9	Above all, targeted assistance is a social protection mechanism that exists in most developed countries of the world. The system, so-called addressless benefits, does not really see a person, a family, a household, and, in fact, does not work to provide social protection. Only the targeted assistance system, when the social protection structure is primarily mentioned by the Ministry of Social Protection, examines the well-being and income of each family, monitors, assesses and is able to allocate funds optimally, only such a system is capable of providing real social protection. And the sooner we move on to it, the sooner we can move from declarations to actual assistance. Second. The minimum wage is determined by our last decision with you and before the 2004 budget, the Government will submit a law to determine the minimum wage on which the budget will be calculated.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u10	People's MP Bronnikov, faction of the Ukraine region.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u11	Nikolai Janović, I fully agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u12	Mikola Janović said they would make proposals. Now they're not ready to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u13	I fully agree with you that you can't write off the understatement, but this is about current calculations. The inadequacy of past years was due to the financial and regulatory misunderstanding in which the country was located, especially in energy. How do you feel about this case? And the second is about investment. Spent investments, as you said, are now allowing individuals to raise gas and water, which they so need, especially in the South of Ukraine. Would that be right if they were focused? The rest is to be referred to Thurman.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u14	The Turmanov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u15	I'll start with the second question and move on to the first. It must be clear to you, the big landlord, as no one else, that if we do not solve the issue of renewable energy, we will not be able to bring any gas to any population within five to six years. And if we continue to pursue a policy to dissipate capital investment to the extent that it is important, even though it is important, for each family to deal with issues that are not relevant to public issues, then we will lead our State to a critical level. I've always stood in that position and stood. Therefore, I find it absolutely unacceptable that the practice of dispersing capital investments that we have adopted with you are unfortunately unacceptable. I hope that you and I will be able to work together on the principles of budget planning next year to establish a position on the concentration of capital investments in decision-making areas. And with regard to the understatement of the past years. It's already been my memory and yours that we've been cheating on, not once. And then literally a year or a half later, it grew back to a size. Therefore, we are putting the problem at the top of our priority, especially the debt of the VAT-returning State. Second. To solve the problem of non-payments, which is expressed in the existence of large accounts receivables. As well as the problem of the debt of enterprises to the State. We are going to solve this problem in a civilized manner, perhaps by issuing State-owned bonds, securities with certain maturitys. But we want to enter in 2004 by clearing the field for normal monetary calculations. This will be our policy with your support, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u16	Turmanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u17	Thank you. Nikolai Janović, in the case that the Ministry and I are engaged in a labour conflict and labour arbitration, the last of which we held a meeting, there are recommendations to make repayments to miners in the 2004 budget. I want to say that over the last three years, 795 million people have been living in the United States. not added to mines, industries not added, according to the budget. I therefore have a question: will the Government make a separate payment in the next year when the budget is drawn up? Grieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u18	I am once again returning to the issue of balance of income and budget expenditure. This week, we have listened to the performance report for 2002. It is clear that neither the income nor expenditure of the 2002 State budget has been balanced. This creates and creates a problem of debt to the budget manager, in this case to the coal industry. Therefore, I am very clear on your question: this year, in five months, the State did not owe the coal miners a penny. We have absolutely no debt on our payments to the coal industry. Therefore, the problem of past years exists, and we will wisely address it, but within the framework of the balance of the State budget. We will in no way allow income to be inconsistent with the actual income of the budget and, therefore, expenses, otherwise this problem that you are talking about, we will not only not solve in 2004, on the contrary, we will stretch the loop on our neck and continue to try, so to speak. It's a long neck to thump.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u19	Yes, Basil Gavrilishin, Gavriluk, I'm sorry, the People's Authority MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u20	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Nikolai Janović, you propose to change the system of benefits and replace them with an address grant. Article 22 of the Constitution. It makes it clear that when new laws are enacted or amended, the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms cannot be narrowed. So the first question is, How will it be ensured that the financial situation of the taxpayers does not deteriorate? And the second question is: As a result of the 2002 review of the State Budget report, it is clear that 43 per cent of enterprises and organizations in the country are bankrupt. Of these, 54 per cent are farmhands. What steps will be taken to remedy the situation next year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u21	Well, first of all, what the Government is proposing should in no way worsen the social protection system, i.e. all our measures will never be contrary to this requirement of the Constitution. I want to ask you a question in answer to your question: What if the benefit that is written down in the legislation is not really granted and the State is not actually paid, is that compliance with the Constitution? Thus, I think that it is much better to examine the real need for a particular family's household to provide services from the State, to assess the real capacity of the State, and, in cash, to provide specific targeted assistance to that family. This will be a much more protective function of the State than the so-called granting of benefits that are never paid or granted in real terms. We have encountered a problem with the payment of debts on the part of the Chernobyl population. Now Thurmanov, a national MP, was talking about miners, about debt of 1 billion 200. We are in debt to the debt-settling problem of 722 million black people. I repeat, in five months we have not allowed a penny of debt to the liver, but this burden, these benefits, is on the 2004 budget, will be on the 2005 budget. Do we need a system like this?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u22	Last question, Victor Terrence. What's the second question?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u23	Second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u24	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u25	I'm sorry, I didn't answer Gabrieluka. The second issue concerns business losses. As long as the system in the State acts as an incentive for loss, we will never lose our way. And I said in my statement that we would suggest that we limit the loss of past years to the economic performance of the current period to forty per cent. I think even such a small rule will significantly reduce business losses.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u26	Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u27	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Victor Teren block of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Mikola Janovich! You've been in the public service since 1994, remember you and I were sitting in the same Parliament, after a few seats, you sat behind. And you've been in the public service for ten years, and please tell me you haven't studied Ukrainian. So whether you can learn Ukrainian or if you're sorry, you're Ukrainianophobic. And the second is the main one. The budget for this year provides 10 million dollars for the development of the Ukrainian language to be sent to the Ministry of Culture, Mikolo Janović, for the purchase of books from the Wesselka publishing office for rural libraries. But this money, according to information from the Ministry of Culture, is now going to buy other things that have nothing to do with Ukrainian. I mean, I'd ask you to take control of 10 million dollars that are directed at the Ukrainian language, not to order offices, cars, or anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u28	I promise you that 10 million will go to translating literature into Ukrainian and that is my answer to your first question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u29	Thank you, time's up. The cost will be allocated, which is the first question that the First Vice-Prime Minister takes care of and cares about languages. Please, in my report, I invite the head of the Committee on Budgets, Mr. Peter Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u30	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues. Usually when we're looking at budgetary issues, despite the fact that they should cause a very lively interest in society to listen to them very hard, because these are long lines of numbers, a list of measures that contribute to the increase in income. Measures to improve the use of budget funds. And sometimes, with these long lines and proposals, we lose the essence of the State Budget. In answer to the first question, I can say that unfortunately, in the draft budget resolution we do not have the necessary funds to carry out social reforms in society. We can solve the problems of paying off the debt to miners, we can stop the holes in the crisis phenomena that are in our agriculture. If you look closely, there are problems in every field that seem to attract budgetary funding. But first of all, the most important thing from a state point of view is the real financial guarantee of the need for a pension reform, which we are already talking about today, all 12 years of Ukrainian independence. And constantly, when we emphasize the need for it, we are told that there is no money for it. This money is, but today we need to define pension reform as our priority, secure it resourcefully and implement it. This is the case with reform, for example, in housing and utilities. This is the case with social reform. But we only mention this when the Government's Action Programme comes to us in the Supreme Council. In the Government Action Programme, we clearly stress the need for reforms, administrative reform, pension reform, social reform, housing and economic reform. When we start discussing the budget, we see that no amount in the state budget for these reforms is, unfortunately, being allocated. In my opinion, it is clear that there is no long-term strategy for these reforms in Ukraine. When we talk about the need to increase the income part of the budget, it's like we're losing the core again, and what do we need the income for? We are now doomed without increasing our income to economic stagnation. Because the concentration of funds on the key strategic directions of reform, we believe, is not available today in the Budget Resolution. I am confident that the budget resolution should be shaped with a minimum of three years of economic forecast. We haven't used long-term economic forecasts in our budget strategy in 12 years. In his statement on the budget resolution, President Leonid Danilovich Kuchma of Ukraine noted that we should move from budget policy planning to the establishment of a medium-term budget strategy. I am confident that this should be a positive signal for investors and an absolute positive for our electorate, for our population, who will be able to make it absolutely clear that those measures that are planned and adopted by the Supreme Council are not populist in nature, but clearly resourceful. Once again, I will allow myself to appeal to the President on budgetary policy. It clearly states that the issue of repayment of late repayment of the added value tax should be definitively resolved in 2004. If you analyze the rate of increase in this debt, you'll see that it's now up to 10 billion dollars. We can't even talk about any solution to this problem right now in 2004. Moreover, this problem is already becoming a threat to national security, since the circumvention costs of operators are now artificially washed away and involved in government funding. I am confident that, given this reference, this issue should be considered shortly at the National Security and Defence Council meeting, in order to be clearly designed to deal with these extremely dangerous crises. At the same time, I would not like us to continue with the general criticism of the budgetary resolution, the basic thrusts of the budgetary policy that the government has put forward. I am confident that constructive cooperation should be based on these current hearings, we should clearly develop proposals and the government's commission. I'm sure that the base, the basis, is to be based on those that were declared when both the President and the Government addressed the Supreme Council, and this is presented in their factions and I've tried to put it in my bill, which is registered today under number 3562-1, where it's proposed to take up 25 of the Supreme Council's proposals and 17 of the orders that will allow for a substantial change in the budget resolution itself and the nature of the budget resolution itself. I am confident that the draft budget resolution for 2004 will have to be adopted on time. We certainly have no right to stop the budget process, so despite the criticism, I think there are positive sides to the resolution. First of all, it is the establishment of a mandatory procedure for calculating the costs received by legal persons in connection with the availability of tax benefits. It would be appropriate to propose a ban on making calculations in black currency. It is certainly important that the resolution improves the system of monitoring compliance with budgetary legislation, ensuring its transparency. While these proposals should certainly complement the requirement to ensure the full transparency of the entire public finances system, including respectable colleagues, social insurance funds. If all proposed changes to the budget resolution can be made, the source of funding for social reforms will be found. I think that next week, based on our hearings today, we will have enough opportunities to take into account the right proposals that will be made today, to hold the necessary meetings, and the budget committee, I have to inform you, has already called on the government to hold a meeting and to improve the mechanism for removing part of the revenue of state-owned enterprises, which was introduced for the first time in this year on the initiative of the budgetary committee. We certainly have to solve the problem of tax benefits -- that is, and as far as free economic zones are concerned, this is about the introduction of judicial practice for excise collection and customs payments. And I'm sure that the judiciary should be involved. And on the basis of our work together, we will have every reason to clearly identify and shape the government's clear direction on improving the budgetary process. We are confident that a substantial settlement needs a mechanism to reduce tax debt. We see strange numbers again. On the one hand, the Budget Resolution calls for an increase in government debt to 45 percent to gross domestic product. At the same time, the President writes in his letter that the strategic task is to implement policies aimed at reducing the ratio of government debt to gross domestic product and reducing the cost of its services. Who determines politics, and where do we go? In fact, I can say that the budget resolution, which was tabled for Parliament's consideration, directly in hard form contradicts the Government's Action Programme, which was recently voted in our session room. Unfortunately, I would also like to point out that earlier the Budget Resolutions were based on the President's message, which was announced annually, in the Supreme Council. This year, in some strange way, the President’s letter was drafted in such a way that it was given only for 2003. The 2004 perspectives, which could be taken into account by the government, are not in the President's letter at all. And all we had to do was analyze the President's letter to the President of the Supreme Council to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. And we were pleased that the whole series of these, which we, as the Committee on Budgets were initiated, were taken into account by the President in their message. I am sure that this is a serious reason for a good, efficient drafting of the budget resolution and for us to finally put in place real budgetary planning in Ukraine for those directions and those that we failed to implement in the 2003 budget process, together with our efforts, we would include in the State Budget Act 2004. I thank you for your attention. And I'd love to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to our committee manager. Please, on the board. Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Ten minutes as we agreed, don't forget.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear reporter, you know, we love this rostrum to keep doing these, including the magic of numbers, these ritual spells around it. Now, look, the budget code is "stupid," and there are problems with the constant underfunding of social benefits. There are so many problems, and we keep trying to talk about it. Your position on this matter, the Budget Committee? Because the First Vice Prime Minister was speaking to you, he was also trying to hide problems by a fraction of numbers and assumptions. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u33	Thank you, Mr. Andrey, but I was deliberately trying not to name any numbers. And the only number I called was the increase in the ratio of tax debt to the level of gross domestic product. Although, first of all, the budget, of course, these are balances, these are numbers. As far as strategic tasks are concerned. First of all, we have to enter 2004 without social debt. This is true of the debts of the Chernobylites, although they must first be inventoryd. It is clear who needs this funding and then it is guaranteed to finance it. Clearly determine the issue of indebtedness to local budgets, which also need to be closed. I'll say now, maybe a rather unexpected thing: the resources to enter 2004 without social debt are in the budget this year. And I'm confident that as a result of the joint work of the Committee of Budgets, interested people's deputies on the budget resolution, I'm not calling for another bill to make changes to the State budget this year, where we'll clearly indicate the sources of social debt elimination. I had to build my thesis on another, which was that we had to concentrate on solving the most major problems, the small enough costs of the State budget. I share them as follows: social reform, pension reform, reform of housing and reform of relations with local budgets. If we can clearly solve these extremely painful problems, I'm going to think it's going to be the first budget to solve strategic problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u34	Puzakov Vladimir Tikhovitch, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u35	Thank you. Please pass the word Zibenko to Petra Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u36	Please speak up, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u37	Thank you, Volodymyr Tikhovich. Cibenko, Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons. Peter Alexiyovich, well, we live with you in a year that has been announced by the European community for a year with special needs and therefore one question and one wish. Wish. I turned to the letter, knowing that the budget process for the following year is beginning, with a letter to the Prime Minister asking to support one of the disabled organizations, the Association of Disabled People's Organizations of Ukraine, the second-largest disabled organization, which has 650 thousand. A man who is currently being set aside for 50 grand. I counted eight copies for a disabled person. Well, I'm sorry, it looks very and very, very rude. And secondly, please tell me that I thank you for your desire to support pension reform, and I would like you to do the same when the budget is being formed. What I mean is the problem of dividing the spending of the state budget into various pension schemes. Today, this year, unfortunately, 800 million dollars have not been added to separate pension schemes. I'm asking that we get back to the practice of the last few years when the budget. Counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u38	Save the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u39	Well, from the answer to the first question, I might say something quite unpopular. We have the Disabled People’s Protection Fund today. A huge budget that is under pressure from the Wages Fund, and first of all, I would think that our common task should be to increase the efficiency of using these funds. Costs for supporting public organizations, including disabled organizations, if there is a need for this, I think we can make a decision at the expense of this fund. I am confident that the State budget should concentrate the funds in other directions, including pension reforms. The thesis on the second half of your question about the allocation of the Pension Fund's expenditure is absolutely right, in keeping with the current legislation of the norm, but I'm sure that pension reform, and you're also confirming it, is a very expensive thing. And the introduction of pension reform in conditions where we have economic growth is actually the only chance that we have in 2004 the beginning of this pension reform. And with our joint work, including with your committee, I know that there are interesting works to be done today, and I am confident that we should do so not when the budget is already reliable from the government and the Supreme Council after September 15th, but now, on the basis of your letter to the government, a proper advice on the measures that need to be taken by the Government, the Supreme Council for the implementation of pension reform. Only by working together will we be able to overcome this problem, which has been in our teeth for five years, six years, and is a major problem when you meet with voters. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u40	I can't see the truth in the hall. Gorlov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Mr. Masters.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u42	Turn on the Masterpiece microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u43	Vladimir Masterskin, faction of "Ukraine". Peter Alexiovich! You know my position on the government borrowing program, when it's being submitted to the government's project, and then we break our heads as it's being worked out, how it's going to negotiate with international financial organizations, and so on. And then we don't see the relevance, let's say, the transparency of the development of this program. Can you not see, perhaps in a budget resolution, that the government, at the time of the submission of the budget resolution, would somehow pre-ratification these credit agreements and then go to international financial institutions. In this way these organizations will see pre-ratification and, as they say, the general good to Parliament. And then there won't be any ratification problems at all. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u44	Thank you, Vladimir Yakovich. I don't want to be clearly funding a particular mechanism right now, an agreement procedure for the borrowing program, or it's supposed to be a perdation, or it should be in the form of a prior agreement. But the fact that, as of today, the problem of borrowing needs serious processing is that it is in the sense of the budgetary process that I have no doubts here. I'm sure we're in a budget resolution as the Supreme Council's proposals to the government on the need for inclusion in the State Budget to improve the reconciliation of the borrowing programme, and I think the Supreme Council will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u45	Nightmare. It's a party of entrepreneurs. Get ready, Pehoti.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u46	169 constituency. Peter Alexiyovich, I fully support you in your plans to anticipate the possibility of social reform in the State Budget. But I'd like to point out one thing. The resolution, which now provides for a moratorium on increased expenditure on social services, including social assistance. There's an indicator like the standard, like the minimum of living, and then there's the level of security for this minimum of living. So if you take social assistance, last year the level of this aid was 80 dollars at the minimum wage of 140. You know what you've been serving. Now 237 has been adopted since December 1st. But the level of social assistance or the level of security is again 80. What will be your position on this matter?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u47	If you're interested in my position, I'm sure that we have a social welfare bond that should not go to the minimum wage level, but to the minimum of living, because that should be the correct ratio. And I can tell you that last year's deflation rate did not increase in Ukraine. At the same time, I would like to say another thesis that we should certainly raise the level of social assistance and bring it closer to providing every citizen of Ukraine with funding to the level of living minimum. A serious improvement is needed in the problem, in the accounting process, inventory of the funds that a citizen receives through state social assistance. A serious analysis of the implementation of the address aid and the replacement of an active relief system with an address aid system is needed. I would not want to simplify this question or politicize it, as some national MPs do. But I can tell you that today, according to our legislation, a person who has a two-, three-, four-and-a-half minimum of living according to existing legislation still has a reason to count on benefits. At the same time, people who live much below the subsistence minimum today because the state does not finance social programs in full compliance with legislation are actually below the survival threshold. And I'm sure from the point of view of social justice, it's us, the people's deputies, that there's a problem with the government to solve this extremely painful issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u48	Vladimir Yuriovich Pehota, European Choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u49	"European Choice," Vladimir Pehota. Peter Alexiyovich, from your statement, I understand from your report that you support the main budget resolution. And you, more than anyone, realize that trying to make it even better and better can lead to, somewhere in December, we'll be sitting around all night making up for the time we've lost. So I have two questions. First question. How can we make sure that it passes with specific suggestions for timeless improvement? And the second question. Are we sure that we will accept the budget on a new tax basis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u50	To answer you, Your Honor Vladimir Juliusovich, I will start with a second question. You have to figure out what the new tax base is. If the Law on the Taxation of the Income of Individuals is adopted -- that's the whole new tax base -- we're going to adopt it on a new tax basis. But I think that neither society nor the economy will fully accept this new tax base, because we have to make it clear and declare that if we said that there was a need to lower taxes, reduce tax burden on the economy, expand tax base, eliminate benefits, then technology is the only way that we can do it, it is during the budgetary process in connection with the implementation of specific social programs. So I'm sure both the government and the Supreme Council should take this unique opportunity. With regard to my personal view of the Budget Resolution, I will say enough of that, perhaps an unpleasant thing. In the way it's given to us, it can't be accepted. The argument is next. First. It is in no way related to the Government’s Programme of Action voted for by the Supreme Council. It is not in any way related to the work done by the Supreme Council, which has been handed over to the government in a timely manner, but if we work on it on the basis of parliamentary hearings, I am confident that we will be able to come up with a compromise harmonized document. I'm sure it's extremely dangerous to delay this process, we need to arm the government with a document that unlocks the budget process. As for the Committee's efforts, you know, you're taking an active part in the work of the Committee on Budgets, you know that previous proposals on the Committee have already been presented, most of them have found support, and I'm confident that we'll be able to present a compromise harmonized document that will be proposed to the Supreme Council for approval in the next plenary week.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u51	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. The report and questions have been completed. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given by the deputy of Assadchev. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u52	Dear Chairman! Assadchev, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. I want to contact the national deputies who will be speaking. If you really want to make your proposals, the proposal is just going in the main directions where 1, 2, 3 points and then your proposals will go into the transcript and will be considered by the committee. If you just talk about the Budget Resolution, there will be no proposals. That's exactly what I'm gonna start with. So, paragraph 1, "Basic Directions." What am I offering? In order for the Budget Resolution to be stated that the following year the minimum wage of 237 and the restoration of the ratios of 1 January 2004 is not in the resolution. The government will give us 237 with December allowances, and in December only the ratio will be restored. You can't let that happen. In this context, you realize that the drinking weight of local budgets is going to increase, and since the main source of local budgets is the income from citizens today is sufficiently uncertain, we still have no statistics, this is a new absolute law, we propose that there be no 3 percent ratio between local budgets for inequality, but 5 percent, as it was in the first year of the introduction of the Budget Code. [[This is paragraph 6]] That's the first one. Now the second is about debt. Well, with the debts, there's an interesting situation here. Today, the debt to GDP is about 32 percent about 32 percent. Total amount of 31.12 - 72 billion dollars in gross product 220. With 272 gross products, the government is offering 45 percent -- 112 billion dollars. Are you going to raise $40 billion in debt? That's because you wrote the president that he should be reduced. So I suggest in paragraph 3, not 45 percent to write, but 33 percent to write the debt as it is today. It's about the size of the locals. Now it's about the capital investments. According to the government, we're adding about 7.4 billion dollars to the budget, half of them, roughly, to the wages. Why should we leave only 400 million equity deposits? I propose to increase this amount by 800 million -- that's in paragraph five. Now for the local budgets, more. It is important to record that all programs for local budgets are stored, including Lviv, Odessa, had room. The budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea must be formed according to the Crimea Constitution. The city of Kiev must be budgeted according to the Capital Law. And one more thing I'm going to say is, in the absence of time, I think I'm going to write it in writing, it's going to have to do with the principals. Let's finally apply the software target method because we talk about it a lot, but it's not being applied. I suggest that these expenses be transferred to their chief executives. That is, so that we no longer have health care at Ukrózliznice. Let us move to the health system and see that the network is improved, and the cost will decrease considerably. I propose these proposals, which I have announced, to include as my proposals in the budget resolution. And I'll put the others in writing, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u53	Thank you. Carmazine. Replica, Solomatin, in order to drive, turn on the microphone of Deputy Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u54	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Mr. Alexander Alexiyovich, I have now seen on the monitor a list of deputies who have signed up for the discussion and made a small estimate of this. From the "Regions of Ukraine"-3, the NDP-1, and the People's Authority - 1, entirely from most - 5, from "Our Ukraine"-3, and from all the others that are left, including the Communist Party - 1 and the 9th, Solomonine in particular. Therefore I would ask you to give me a word among all those who are before me to express our view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u55	The position is clear, we're going to give a word from the factions who wanted to make their proposals. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin Get Harry ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u56	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, reverently suffering Ukrainian people! Today your fate is resolved for the next year, not just for this year. As she had made up her mind, everyone had made sure of their own lives. Whether it's good or bad, this resolution that we're proposing is "Basic Directions of Budget Policy 2004." I'd say it's anti-national. Why? Because there is no repayment of debts to the social sphere, unfunded in 2002 and 2003, there is no unconditional return on the value added tax, and the debt has already been 10 billion, and only more than three billion over time. This is the destruction of the national economy. This is the basis for corruption in the broad sense of the word, because in order to return today, they are looking for a 20 - to 40 - percent laziness to compensate for VAT. Is that normal? This is not included in the budget resolution. As suggested today, we must go in the direction. So the main goal is budget policy. In his letter, the President of Ukraine writes that he is concerned that nearly half of the economy continues to be in the shadow realm. A whole system of action is needed to eradicate the causes and prefaces of this most disturbing phenomenon. Tell me, please, where is this system? Is this system foreseen here, in this budget resolution? It's not predictable. There is no stopping the phenomenon of pylos — the function of free economic zones. Now to chapter three on the marginal size of government debt and its structure. 45 percent is proposed. I think it's just people don't realize that, and our children will all be in debt, and even grandchildren who aren't yet born will be in debt. So I would suggest that this figure be reduced, limited to 33 percent, this is a world practice, first. Secondly, I'd like to write down here a clear 237 wage minimum of 1 January with a rescheduling rate, and from 1 July 350 with a trend towards living minimum for working persons. We have to write that clearly in the budget resolution, that's the goal that we have to move towards. Next. We have to see why a special fund deficit of 0.5 is set.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u57	Yuri Anatolyevich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u58	I'm done. Just issued a budget resolution, which I propose to the national deputy, Peter Poroshenko. She's much better than the government, but she's just been handed out. I analyzed it, and I want to say that it also lacks specifics -- numbers, numbers need to be added. I will certainly submit them, but I would like to draw the government's attention to this: you're asking questions about a legislative settlement. I'm done. and the application in case of the long-term repayment of the government's boron. You don't need any law, Mikola Janovich, you have to take loans cheaper now, and pay back what you took under 12 percent. What, does all government or some law require special adoption? Take less than 8 percent today, pay back urgently, and we will reduce the amount of government debt that is now 14 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u59	Turn off the microphone. The word has a national MP, Hara, to prepare the Masters. I ask for strict adherence to the Rules because this will affect the speeches of others.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u60	Dear Nikolai Janović, our respected colleagues! Regrettably, once again, on behalf of the Committee, I must point out that the proposal of the main areas of budgetary policy relating to the social sphere are declarative, sloganous, and do not contain specific parameters for the level of funding of these costs. Further allegations of increased social function, increases in part of social expenditures also remain declarative. At the level of social assistance, people's deputies have asked these questions today, remain extremely low at last year's level, which is 40. 80 bracelets. In preparing the main areas of budgetary policy for 2004, the current Cabinet unfortunately continued the bad practices of previous Governments, ignoring the requirements for ensuring compliance with the legislative and legal norms of the budget resolution. The Act, in particular, on State social standards and State social guarantees, which should form the basis for the formation of basic social guarantees. The oblivion of the poverty-relief strategy approved by the Presidential Decree did not take into account the requirement of a strategy to replace the system of benefits for targeted cash assistance with the need to provide, above all, certain social prerequisites for the replacement of benefits, the stabilization of consumer prices for services, and the availability of services. Allowances and subsidies for accounting for housing and utilities consumption, revisions of concessionary tariff consumption standards and so on, discrepancies with the demands of the President of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers programme itself. Actually, Nikolai Janovich. Well, of course, he's not interested in listening. It's interesting that he's whispered beautiful words in his ear. But it seems to me that the Prime Minister and the supreme leadership of the Kabmin are themselves, and this ironwork structure, which has been formed in Kabmin for 50 years or 100 years, remains the same. The slogans are one and the documents are received by another. Therefore, in accordance with articles 1 and 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws on State social standard guarantees, the minimum subsistence allowance and other Committee on Social Policy and Labour, the transition to budgeting at all levels and their implementation should be an important condition of budgetary policy for 2004 and should be a priority for financing public and social security costs. We must abide by the Constitution and the laws. The bad practice of the Cabinet of Ministers continues until it ignores the provision of laws on the basis of which the State budget is to be established before the budgetary process begins. This is primarily the Living Minimum Act. "Minimum Wage", "Minimum Age Pension". “On the non-taxed minimum income of citizens” and so on. And it comes as in the old days to the ready budget we will stick to the cow seat, those norms that will not be in line with the wishes of the Cabinet of Ministers. I, unfortunately, have come to an end, but I must also note from other budget claims that, unfortunately, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour may have decided, or fortunately, that the basis has been decided by the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, but they are not very consistent with the Rules, but they are objective and fair. I propose our committee in the rest of the time, and I think all the other committees have submitted their proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Budget Committee. Unfortunately, however, they are constantly ignored and not used. I'm sorry, I'm done. We are told and told today by Nikolai Janović about the balance of the budget, so let us balance it in favour of social policy and the State, not in favour of bringing some dividends to our people. I believe that it is necessary to make every effort not to delay this process, to make such a budgetary resolution in order for it to comply with the ideology that has been sent by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u61	Thank you. The word is given to the deputy of the Master, to prepare the Suprun. I remind you that we have three minutes, not four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u62	National Deputy Masters, faction of Ukraine, constituency number 14. Given that time is very short, I'd like to literally define two of these in my speech. Thesis first. This is what today, in fact, the amount of government debt is too high, especially burdened by part of the cost of maintaining and servicing government debt. Consider that today more than 1 out of every 4 dollars of the budget spends on the maintenance and payment of the principal amount of the debt. What am I suggesting about this? I propose on this occasion that we mobilize our work with you, honourable deputies, to improve the government's work on this, let's say, field. I propose today to consider the Law on State Debt to provide as many instruments as possible, active instruments to deal with government debt. And consider that only a one-percent improvement in the debt structure in the service sector gives more than $140 million to the budget economy every year. That's the first one. The other one. I would like to make sure that we start a new system of planning the government’s borrowing programme, which is proposed by the government for each year, so that at the time of the budget resolution, we will necessarily include such a thesis so that we can pre-ratify a programme or another so that when we consider the budgetary resolution, we know what programs of government borrowing. What does that mean? For example, a fairly decent and normal program of government borrowing in rural development. There's $200 million in credit to support the village. We know from what today, let's say, big problems in the village. The problem is there's going to be short loans. In six months, you can't buy into the village that you have today. It takes at least five, ten years. I'm just trying to get this program to work. This is what the village expects of us. But surely let us consider the problem at the time of the adoption of the resolution, when the Budget Resolution is given, then we make it a pre-ratification. And it's only then that we're able, let's say, to government officials to go to world financial organizations to develop one or the other program. And at the end of the day, I'd like to say such a thesis that let's be careful, but let's go back to issuing state guarantees to our businesses. This is a rather painful subject, especially considering what the head of the interim commission of inquiry is now saying on unrefundable loans made to the government. But if we improve this system today, we will return to our inner investor. And at the end of the day, I would like to say that we are today, despite the fact that the amount of government debt is fairly large, I'm not going to limit ourselves today, and that 45 percent is not a big problem. The main problem is the government's debt-servicing budget. There's work to be done here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u63	Thank you. The word has the national MP Suprun, the People's Democratic Party, to prepare Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, national MPs, reverend Mikola Janovich, representatives of the government. The People's Democratic Party has set itself up and proposed a new order of state policy by involving the public and public organisations. That's why, on May 30, this year, we held a forum of national democracy in the form of round tables. One of them was called the 2004 Budget Process and Tax Reform, which, according to our decision, will become a permanent decision of the forum. It was noted by the meeting that our party suggested that the 2004 budget should be implemented and reflected in the Budget Resolution for the following year. First of all, we think that we must take into account not only the President's Message, not only the Government Programmes, but also the legislative framework that exists today. You and I held parliamentary hearings, and as a result of parliamentary hearings, by the way, they were also attended by government representatives, and special decisions were adopted by the Supreme Council, which regulate the use of funds, expenditures for 2004 and subsequent years in separate areas of the national economy. This is also true of agriculture, it's about the social sphere, it's about others. So, in my view, in the preamble to "Basic Directions," it's definitely necessary to reflect that. Priorities need to be defined. And these should be our priorities in terms of health, education, culture, science, housing and utilities. Investments that we can make through human budget into human capital. To that end, we need to form the revenue part of the State budget, so we suggest that we put in place the following. When designing the budget, apply a new methodology that takes into account the inclusion of all taxes, congregations, compulsory payments, including contributions to insurance, government, other funds, and government loans made at the expense of the State budget. Provide full accounting for tax benefits to legal and physical persons. In addition, we have many sources of income that are not currently included in the State Budget and unfortunately we need to adopt a whole series of bills. In particular, we didn't ratify what we call the Kyoto Agreement. Under the Kyoto Agreement, Ukraine is entitled. has a quota of 500 million tons of emissions into the atmosphere. This quota can be sold in foreign markets, and it's worth $5 billion. Therefore, in my view, we certainly needed to take into account the introduction of all the bills that we should have adopted within two months of the conclusion of this session with a view to forming an income part of the State Budget. We suggest -- very briefly, I'll try to make a list -- the following. It is mandatory to establish the State Budget Act the minimum wage, with the obligation to maintain the ratio through the introduction of a tariff network. We're proposing to introduce targeted interest-free loans to citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u65	Regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u66	For higher education, for higher qualifications, for retraining as a social investment in human capital. Resolve municipal loans, settle the repayment of budgetary debt in previous years. It is imperative that the State Building Fund and Maintenance Facility be established, otherwise Ukraine will not receive the $750 million that are currently stored in the accounts of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development specifically for this purpose. It is also suggested that expenditure be provided in terms of programming and economic classification, budget reflection, as necessary. In 100 percent of the amount, the financing of the Road Finance Act is in effect for the following year.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u67	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u68	Unfortunately, in the absence of time, we cannot give a full list of our suggestions. But the faction of the People's Democratic Party will give them in writing and these proposals will be discussed in party lines, discussed in the forum, and they need to be reflected in the budget resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u69	Thank you. The word has the national deputy of Konovaluk, the faction of the Ukraine, from the faction. Prepared for Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished Mikola Janovich, respected colleagues. I really don't intend to define all the fiscal policies for the next year in three minutes, but every time we deal with this issue, we're trying not only to influence the development of the state budget, but, above all, to shape government-concentrated policies of state, economic and social policy. Because it's going to be implemented not only on the backdrop of the economic growth that we've been seeing with you since 99, but we really need to change the methodology not only in budgetary relations with local budgets, but also in terms of the principals, social insurance funds. We really need to look at the function of the special fund, which unfortunately was not reflected in the government's proposals. In government proposals, we don't see what's going on in the treasury service and there are some problems with this. There are not clearly defined mechanisms for the economy of its resources to implement and secure government debt policies. I would like to support the intention offered by the minister of finance. Deputy Prime Minister of Economics for Chief Officials by 10 per cent for the maintenance of state institutions. We also need to inventory all budgetary programmes, strengthen budgetary policy control functions, ensure that decisions are taken to help ensure that tasks are taken and implemented in the execution and expenditure, and implement those major socio-economic policies in the state. We understand that the main task is to carry out the basics of the government's work programme and some of those I would like to quote right now. A steady increase in salaries to 25 percent, a shift to the salaries of budget workers on the basis of a single tariff network. Dear colleagues, 237 dollars is not our wish and it is our intention to set this social standard in order to raise the income of the population that we need to understand that it requires enough spending in the state budget. And I don't agree with the government's position when you and I are living under two or three scenarios, targeted, conservative and more. We have to have one scenario, responsible, professional. And if the government's activity program predicts 8 percent of the growth of the internal gross product, we have to move on to that, to that indicator. Because this will allow us to compensate for the loss of local budgets, the state budget for the introduction of new taxes. We should not view tax reform as a separate change in individual laws. We need to find out what the system should be that will enable us to legalize hidden economic activities, to ensure the efficient use of budgetary resources. So, dear colleagues, I think there are a lot of proposals now to take into account the budget resolution. And I think we should work on it. And for the first time, perhaps we can achieve that we can not only include these fiscal policies in next year's budget development, but also influence the state that is now in the state. Because we need to understand that the following year and politically, this is a very responsible year for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u71	Thank you. The word is given by Yuri Petrovich Solomatin. Prepare Bondarenko, European Choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u72	Yuri Solomatni, Communist faction, Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Blackwater Disaster. First of all, I would like to turn to the respectable Mikola Janović Azarov and the fearmaker for the fate of the Ukrainian people, who prevents Mikola Yanovich from listening to my speech! Mikola Janovich, please focus on my speech! Dear colleagues! The income part of the budget, it has to be increased, and it's in the hands of the majority to pull out of the shadow another budget of Ukraine that's rotating there. And it is clear that our faction will be all-round, all-out helping the majority in this noble cause. The second question is about targeted social assistance, about the protection of the Chernobyl population. The budget resolution foresees that total social protection should be provided as targeted, and if most of the benefits and compensations are targeted, but some part, it was in the form of benefits and compensation. The Chernobyl organizations, especially the Black Sea Union of Ukraine, have repeatedly addressed the President, the Government, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and our committee to protest against such efforts. Our committee and the faction to which I belong support such warnings and requests from Ukrainians. But what is most remarkable is that this budget resolution provides for the transfer of social protection functions to Minsk and health protection functions to the Ministry of Health. So there's virtually nothing left of the Chernobyl question in the INS, and the Chernobyl and the carpet, this pie, it's going to be stretched out in separate ministries and departments. So I remind you that in the recommendations of parliamentary hearings. which took place on April 14 on the Chernobyl problem, it is the government's mandate to study the relevance of the update by the State of Chernobyl of Ukraine. And I'm asking you, Your Honor, to study this question. And finally, the problems of geology. Geology has a pitiful condition for today. This is the chicken that's carrying the golden eggs, and so far the cost of the financing budget is falling, and now it's even foreseen from the special fund for financing geological exploration work to be transferred to the General Fund. It's going to be, as they say, for geology, "full blizzard." Mikola Janović, this cannot be done if we want Ukraine to have a future based on the growth of fossil resources. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u73	Thank you very much, Yuri Petrovich. The word has the national MP Bondarenko, "European Choice", to prepare the Vojs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u74	Gregory Bondarenko, constituency 92, European Elections. Dear Chief, distinguished participants in the hearing! The European Election Group believes that one of the most important areas of budgetary policy in 2004 should be the social orientation of the budget and accordingly increase the share of expenditure in education, health care, social benefits and compensation. The 2004 budget is expected to increase the rate of real income growth, which is also the wage, social regulation, poverty reduction, and improving the quality of life of citizens. It is essential to improve the system of existing benefits and compensations. These costs must be directed towards supporting those social groups that cannot provide themselves. A mechanism for replacing existing benefits and compensations should be developed and implemented. The changes in legislation in part of the expenditure are a prerequisite for the implementation of the budgetary policy of the state. With a view to avoiding debt, it is necessary to include budget expenditure in line with available resources, as discussed in one report and another. In view of the rather tense situation in the 2004 budget, each chief budget manager should optimize his expenditure. It is necessary, including the deep structural structure of the master administrator system, to review the statutes and sources of own revenue, as well as to optimize the number of budget programmes to be implemented in 2004. Only those who measure up to the basic goals and tasks of the Chief Agent need to be left. In the end, the chief executives should learn to work in the budget situation that has been in place for 12 years. I mean, there's not enough money. The necessary urgent measures to fill the income part of the budget must be taken by the end of the current session of the Supreme Council to amend the current tax legislation. There is a need for a moratorium on legislation on the extension of the tax system. We're supposed to order tax benefits, ban bills from being in money form. In view of the cancellation of customs congregations and taxes from natural persons on January 1, 2004, compensation resources should be found. In the relationship between the state and local budgets, it is proposed not to diminish the volume of transfers that was achieved in 2003 and the demand for local budgets in the budget. The government budget deficit threshold for 2004 should not exceed more than 0.5 percent of GDP. And the State Budget Fund should be free of deficits. Thus, honourable colleagues, the proposed draft core budget policy orientations for 2004, both in my opinion and in the opinion of the European Election Group, allow for the rebalancing of all State Budget project indicators. Contribute to strengthening its social component and ensuring economic growth, provided the necessary measures are taken by all participants in the budgetary process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u75	Thank you. The word has been given to the national deputy of Voysh, the faction of SDPU, to prepare Kirilchuku for the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, in the absence of time spent in the presentation, would like to move immediately to comments and suggestions on the main directions of the 2004 budget policy presented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In general, the faction of SDPU(o) positively assesses the direction the government is proposing to direct the budgetary policy of the state in 2004. As a result of the party’s programming positions, the SDPU has raised the issue of increasing the social orientation of the budget for more than a year and will therefore support the movement in this direction. At the same time, it should be noted that most of the budget resolution provisions presented by the government, even valid and necessary, are declarant and do not contain specifics. In particular, the task of gradually bringing the amount of non-taxed income into line with the size of the subsistence minimum does not have a deadline for implementation. It should also be noted that the budget resolution does not address a number of budgetary issues that need an immediate solution. In particular, the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine defines that in the main areas of fiscal policy for 2004 there is no attention to addressing the rather important social problems, especially with regard to the debt owed to education workers provided for in article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act. [[united]] It takes a long time to solve this question, as it creates social tension in teachers’ circles. According to the faction of the SDPI(o) the State has had to legally determine the debt of these payments to education workers and start its repayment since 2004. Thus, we propose that the budget resolution should reflect the need to restructure the debt owed to education and budgeted expenditure to pay it off. In addition, education grants in 2004 should ensure full compliance with the requirements of Article 57 of the Education Act, including guarantees to rural teachers and prevent the creation of new debts. It should also be noted that the government's proposed main budget policy for 2004 did not reflect the question of raising minimum wage to 237 dollars and restoring it to inter-employment ratios. In addition, the budget resolution does not highlight the issue of financing environmental and environmental measures. Considering that the future of the state depends on solving environmental problems, the faction of SDPU(o) insists on substantially improving the financial security of environmental protection programmes. I'd still like to stop at the local budget issues. For the past year, the Budget Resolutions have been taking sides in the specificities of the formation of the budgets of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Kiev in accordance with Article 67 of the Budget Code. This year’s resolution did not become an exception. This approach, of course, violates the rights of Kiev and Crimea to stable sources of income defined in the Crimea Autonomous Republic of Ukraine Capital and Constitution Act. It causes misunderstandings and use in the government document instead of the specific volume of inter-budget transfers provided for by the Budget Code in the expenditure of the State budget of Ukraine for the total volume of transfers. The government's proposal to maintain this quantity at no less than 2003 will in fact mean that the volume of transfers will decrease, which the faction believes is unacceptable. Taking into account the above-mentioned faction of SDPU(o) proposes to take into account the basic directions of budgetary policy for 2004, taking into account the comments made in the proposals of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u77	Thank you. Eugene Ivanovich Kirilczuk, please, from the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. We've prepared Gabrieluk, the People's Landing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u78	Eugene Kirilchuk, Faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Party of the Fatherland. Dear National Deputies! Indeed, the main thrusts of budgetary policy must be design, must be the backbone of the 2004 budget, and for all national MPs it should be clear about its parameters, its intentions, its directions, its main and secondary actions, both to Parliament and to the government. Today’s report by Nikola Janović and a report by the head of the budget committee can be said to be government decrees, not a budget resolution. Maybe it's sharp, but it's only fair, because Mikola Janovich was doing numbers, facts, and so was the head of the budget committee, so that things wouldn't get any worse, he also went through the prime numbers. Please tell me, do we have the basic macroeconomic indicators of the deputies? Can you say something about how we're going to develop our main industries, let's say, light, agricultural, machine-building, fuel-energy complex? What will be the rate of growth in that other field? In this and other field, how much are we going to get into the budget? Mikola Janović declared that the renewal, mechanicalization and modernization of the industry was me standing and standing in that position. You guys are good! Almost all industrial production is privatized, stocked, we are forbidden to invest in it, and we should remember for sure that our task is the social problems of the population. Before we solve them, we don't look at others. We can't even go into this today -- what will be the balance sheet of our budget next year. We are not informed, but how much money will come from those. from that property that's in stock companies. We Germans figured it should be at least 6 billion, and we don't have a billion. Again, the government did not say anything about a special fund that seems to be the main hole in the escape. We're running out of legal government money. We have repeatedly voted to eliminate this point. This is not mentioned in the resolution. Such facts.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u79	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u80	Such facts could be summed up very much. As a result, I believe that we have discussed and pointed out much today. With budget proposals taken into account, the discussion should be reversed and really put to a resolution so that a specific document can be voted on. If we vote for that resolution, we'll have a big budget problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u81	Gabrieluk, please, Basil, from the People's Rule Group. Prepare to be an agrarian pack.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u82	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The Ukrainian state is only at the beginning of a competitive market economy, an effective social security system, a powerful educational and scientific system. And the state budget is one of the main means of implementing state policy in these areas. But do the basic fiscal policies that we consider meet the needs of the state during this difficult period? Are they in line with the principles laid down in the President's Letter, in the Government's Programme, in the country's main programming documents? Basically, yes. But there are several positions that we think should be written more clearly. Without denying most of the government's proposals and determining their overall progress, we would like to stress the need for a more extensive definition of some priorities in the state's budgetary policy for the following year. First, about the social component of the future budget. We insist that next year we anticipate an approximation of the minimum wage of at least 75 percent of the minimum wage, i.e. up to 275 dollars. Moreover, we consider it necessary to pay a variety of social benefits: assistance to socially vulnerable groups, families with children, and so on, to determine the extent of the real cost of living, since in recent years the State Budget laws have determined how much to take in terms of the size of the aid, and to some extent such standards have been justified. But with the growth of budget revenues, this practice has to be stopped. In our view, the following year we should begin to move to the standards of the developed countries and to social assistance for the underprivileged citizens to calculate, on the basis of the cost of living for the entire family, that is, marriage, children. A logical extension should be to increase pensions. The State’s view of health is also an extremely important part of social policy. Obviously, there is a need to increase funding for the most important scientific programs, prevention of the worst diseases of AIDS, tuberculosis, and cancer. Secondly, we insist on increasing the cost of science and education. Today they determine the direction and pace of economic and social progress of the nation. Third. The need to increase the authority of local authorities, expand their functions, and increase their funding has been repeatedly mentioned. And often local budgets need to be increased, including an increase in the proportion of local budgets, which will ensure that we take advantage of the pace of socio-economic development of the state. I also wanted to stop at one of the other points -- the capping, where one of the criteria is 80 percent must be ready to build. I would like to make such an important point, whether the region needs it or not. For example, the Cremenchug. In order to address drinking water issues, it takes 24 million people to deal with the problem of drinking water. Grieve, and if we approach the concept of government, this problem will never be solved in life. Please consider our suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u83	That's it, thank you. National deputy of the Shpak faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u84	Shpak, the faction of the Ukrainian agrarian party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Taking into account the extremely difficult situation in agriculture, the faction believes that the 2004 budget should first take into account the requirements for Ukraine’s adopted agricultural laws. The main and principle requirement of Ukraine's agricultural stimulus law is to meet the total amount of government budget funding at least 5 per cent for agriculture, including the following legislative requirements. First. Reimbursement of 50 percent of insurance costs for compulsory insurance, insurance for crops. That's why there's a last example today. The other one. A particularly important and justifiable mechanism is the budgetary support for agricultural lending through partial repayment of credit rates. This credit mechanism in the APC received 6.2 billion GN last year. Third. This year, Ukraine’s fixed agricultural tax laws and the special VAT regime for agricultural enterprises are being completed. These laws were adopted with the aim of providing State support to agriculture through the debt regime, which was estimated at 3.4 billion grams last year. And the last. Because of monetary policy as the chief budget manager, many targeted programmes are financed, including "Agrarian Science and Education", social programs, agricultural machinery, such as financial leasing, others that form a false general view of significant budgetary support for agriculture. We therefore consider it appropriate to identify in the 2004 budget the main managers of the organization’s funds and institutions, which are subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers and have a long-term backing basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u85	Yes, Taras Cranville, the faction of our Ukraine, and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u86	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The first thing I want to say about this budget resolution is that we see it at a fairly low level of processing and preparation, general declaration. By the way, I want to remind you that at a time when the Supreme Council was preparing a budget resolution on the adoption of the Budget Code, the level of the Budget Resolutions was higher, and there was a much higher level of absolute reality. In this budget resolution, first of all, if we're talking about the main founders of these, there's no key point that should be out there -- the childization of the economy in Ukraine, because it's the only real way to fill the state budget today. Among other problems, there is no correlation with a re-adopted income tax on natural persons, and it has a very real impact on the income of local budgets and has to provide for appropriate transfer compensation for local budgets. If we don't, we're actually going to completely destroy the budget system of Ukraine, and that's exactly what the budget resolution should be. Who remembers the last budget resolution we adopted for 2003, there read a very nice phrase for address aid in exchange for a system, a fragile aid system. Do we see the embodiment of address aid this year? Obviously not. Will we see it next year? I can say with confidence that neither can I. So are the very nice words about stimulating investment and innovation that were also in the last budget resolution. Practically, all the other items, such as the capping and other items contained in that budget resolution, show that this will only remain in words. In general, energy-saving technologies for budgetary institutions are funny. So once again, I'm going to say that there's a lot of unspecifiedness, and where it is, it looks pretty funny. Positively, the Budget Resolution decided to address the problems associated with inter-budget relations at the level below the district budget. This is positive, but whether they will be willing to adopt an appropriate level of laws and corresponding changes to the Code of Budgets, this is also a serious issue. And very important to me, I didn't see in this budget resolution the government's clear plans of January 1, 2004 to actually go to the implementation of our Law on Minimum Wage 237, which was to be done on July 1st, and to ensure all inter-task ratios. Unfortunately, there is no such thing. The unforeseeable increase in capillaries, more for those who read only an explanatory note, is written a better formulation, which is not below the level. The very text of the budget resolution is very clear, on the same level as it was this year. What is this level, we know very well, completely inadequate. There is no system to extend the growth of local budgets as a result of non-detainable standards. In addition, I have to point out that the painful system of education is also not actually foreseen. Neither the development of the implementation of the 57 articles in other paragraphs that are not provided today, nor the 100 percent implementation of the 8 and 10 that we have already adopted in this year’s budget, nor the repayment of the debts of educators in the preceding periods. Likewise, not bad things are in relation to the legislative framework. By the way, this chapter has turned out to be the biggest thing in the budget resolution, although it's still more of a problem for Parliament than the government, but there are things that I'm afraid will just not be done. I'm going to read just one, that's the elimination of tax benefits with a branch base. I'd like Parliament to do that, but somehow I'm afraid we won't, but it's a source of fulfillment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u87	Dear colleagues! Time is up for consideration, with reasons, please Vladimir Cherniak. Dear colleagues, time is up, we have a Civil and.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear Mikolo Janovich, dear colleagues! I suggest you put the emphasis in the budget resolution first. The first focus is the mobilization of the budget, the formation of the income part of the budget. We don't pick huge amounts of budget. I can tell you exactly where we don't pick, I don't have time. That's what we need to pay attention to both the government and the parliament, how we mobilize the budget, how we increase the income portion of the budget. Another accent. The rate of economic growth requires an increase in the amount of capital investment. In the Budget Resolution, very small volumes need to be increased. The third accent. The activation of social policy, what's done, but very little, has to be more clearly activated by social policy. And the fourth accent. Stop the rate of increase in debt due to the possible default. Here are the four main highlights to be put in the Budget Resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u89	It's from Polychuk. Please, Your Honor, let's not. Please, Poljczuk Mikola Efremovich with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u90	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I'm asking you, there's a rule, we don't get to speak from the committees, but four to five minutes talk. I would ask the chairman to keep the schedule, and then all those who have signed up for a certain period of time would be allowed to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u91	Criticism is accepted. She's fair. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the main directions of budgetary policy for 2004. I'd like to ask the committee, taking into account the discussions, the suggestions, the comments they made here, to finalize the draft ruling so that we can accept it. But before that, we need to reconcile this project with the government and the factions so that we can have a positive decision. The draft Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine is announced for consideration. Justice Officer Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. The Legal Policy Committee proposes the following rule: 15 minutes for the report, 10 minutes for the answer, and 25 minutes for the discussion. I figured there wouldn't be any reports, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u92	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u93	Excuse me, Alexander Volodymyrovich. We agreed, ladies and gentlemen, that since there is no regulation today to deal with parliamentary requests, we will consider them, and we will not take breaks. We spent half an hour looking at the questions, and you agreed that you supported the idea. Please excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u94	The draft Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code presented for your consideration aims to ensure the full functioning of the judicial system by regulating civil proceedings in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine that have been adopted since the Constitution became effective. He will allow the courts to carry out their duties, ensure proper and timely consideration and resolution of civil cases in order to protect the violated or challenged rights and freedoms of individuals and legal persons, as well as to protect public and public interests. In addition, the completion of civil-procedural reform has contributed to the adoption of a number of legislative acts recently, particularly those that directly regulate the operation of the judicial system such as the Judicial Act and two very important codes: The Civil Code and the Family Code. It should also be noted that in recent years a significant number of changes have been made to the current Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine to address the individual problems of civil justice. Such fragmented changes in this code have led to a lack of harmony, a balance in its standards, which is now extremely complicated by law enforcement. Ukraine's draft Civil Procedure Code regulates the conduct of civil matters before the courts of Ukraine. This project contains a number of principles of new provisions aimed at ensuring and implementing swift and fair justice, ensuring the rights of the participants in the civil process. Obviously, you all know that there is now a big problem with the fact that it is not always timely and that civil cases are dealt with quickly enough in the courts, which are very often obvious. At the same time, while working on the Code, it was possible to preserve the succession of the basic institutions of the civil process, which, in turn, would be accessible to civil society participants. Among the money presented in Ukraine’s Civil Procedural Code is a few that have not been used to date in civil proceedings in Ukraine. In particular, the project introduces a simplified procedure for dealing with civil matters, such as a warrant. A court order is a special form of a court decision to collect money from a debtor or to dispossess movable property at the request of a person who is entitled to such a claim. This will allow the principle of the procedural economy to be implemented, as a simplified procedure is envisaged to deal with the application for a court order. This is a clearly defined category of issues that can be dealt with in order of orderly implementation. The procedure for providing evidence and a lawsuit has been improved. For example, the project provides for the possibility of taking action to secure a lawsuit and evidence at the applicant's request before filing a lawsuit. This will enable the court to carry out a future decision, since the experience of executing court decisions shows that there is an array of non-execution that is programmed in advance before the trial begins. In order to avoid this, such a right is provided for the courts. In order to avoid the abuse of this right, the project requires the applicant to file an appropriate application within 10 days, as well as the right of the court to oblige the applicant to ensure his/her claim. Also taking into account the provisions of the law on the judiciary, the Civil and Family Codes of Ukraine, as well as the law on combating tuberculosis, questions about the order of legal and individual conduct are raised. Where it comes from making decisions on TB, on other diseases where the State has the right to force. In particular, according to these laws, regulations have been laid down for adoption, recognition of a natural person is limited to an effective or ineffective person, the provision of full-fledged minors, compulsory hospitalization of a natural person to a psychiatric institution, compulsory hospitalization to an antituberculosis institution, and so forth. For the purpose of holding. I apologize, since we carried out a small judicial reform, after which a number of shortcomings have been identified in the practical application of the Court's rulings in appeal and cassation. The new draft Code of Civil Procedure for Ukraine has improved the procedure for such a complaint, modified considerably, simplified the requirements for appeals and appeals, also introduced an earlier unknown civil and procedural law of Ukraine, a re-cassion institution that was introduced after the adoption of the Law on the Court of Justice. In order to ensure the proper protection of the rights of natural and legal persons, the project has refined the question of the restoration of lost judicial conduct that has been carried out in a separate chapter. In particular, this refers to the procedure for reinstatement of the lost judicial conduct of persons who have the right to appeal to the court for reinstatement of the conduct, the content and the subordination of the claim, the examination of the claim, the decision of the court in the matter of reinstatement of the lost conduct. In the light of the provisions of Ukraine’s international treaties, questions have been raised regarding the conduct of cases involving foreign persons and the issue of the filing of a suit against a foreign State, the execution of foreign courts and the referral of Ukrainian courts to foreign courts, the recognition and enforcement of foreign courts in Ukraine, the application of the rules of international agreements ratified by the Supreme Council and the validity of Ukraine. It should also be noted that the provisions of the drafts of all procedural codes refer to the Criminal Procedure Code, which was adopted two weeks ago in the first reading, this Code, which is currently under consideration, the Economic and Procedural Code, which will be addressed this month and the Administrative and Procedural Code of Ukraine. They should be based on common approaches to the legal regulation of the procedural institutions and should be harmonized with each other as part of the harmonization of the basic principles of the conduct of judicial proceedings. That's the principle of the Ministry of Justice, and all the codes were developed, and the ones that are now being presented to you for consideration. This should ensure the uniformity of the legal regulation of the basic institutions of procedural law. The adoption of Ukraine's new civil procedural code will allow civil justice reform in Ukraine, improve the effectiveness of the civil process, promote the realization and protection of constitutional rights and legitimate interests of the parties in the civil process. At the same time, its adoption will be another step forward for Ukraine in fulfilling its commitments to the Council of Europe, which are foreseen at the time of our country’s accession to this important European institution. I also want to say that the work on this draft code was carried out by a joint working group of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the Ministry of Justice, with the participation of representatives of the Committee on Legal Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, at the very stage of the development of this document, we have been able to take the various points of view fully into account and to present to you a bill that has been completed today, from a professional point of view, a view that can be applied by the courts of Ukraine. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, questions to the minister? Please sign in. We had a deal for ten minutes, didn't we? Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u96	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Mr. Secretary, I certainly support the whole idea that a new procedural code is needed. I just have a question about article 46, your views on the attorney's rights. There are a little bit more rights, on the one hand than on the other, and on the other hand, we see that at a time when the state is being thoroughly looted, the prosecutor has in some way the right to have, even to have, an appeal and a cascading charge, and on matters where he has not taken part, if it is caused solely by State interests or the protection of the interests of minors or those with disabilities, limitations on efficiency, patients and so on. Why don't we? This is me in Article 46, part four, the question is conceptual for the development of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u98	I want to tell you that there is no limit to the prosecutor in protecting the interests of the state so that he can file an appeal or a appeal. This is about restrictions that are established if it was a dispute involving legal or natural persons who do not have the State’s interests represented. So I think there's just a different interpretation of this standard. If there is a need for greater clarity in this, it will be possible to do so, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u99	Igor Shurma, faction of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u100	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Mr. Minister, article 15 determines that when a court order is reviewed by default and given under the new circumstances, the judges are in the same condition as they were ordered. But how will the above documents be reviewed if the court is able to meet in the same warehouse for the reason that the judge resigns or is transferred to another court? That's the first question. Two shorts, if you please. The project, part one of the first part of article 17, defines. that a judge is unable to take part in the case and is subject to an appeal if he is a relative or a member of the party or other persons taking part in the case. So the project only mentions the brother-in-law of his wife. Thus, the project does not specify a self-restoration if the judge is the brother-in-law, the ewe or the father-in-law of the party. Is there any solution to this problem? And one last question. The project, part six of article 153, deals with how to secure a lawsuit. In order to prevent abuse, the plaintiff lodges a pledge to be deposited with the court. So I'm asking you to give an answer as to what this mortgage should look like -- in monetary form, in notary form or in bank guarantee form?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u101	Well, I'll start with the last question. The way the mortgage is supposed to look, the judge is going to decide here, because this is actually about when it's going to be necessary to make a bail if the claim for bail is filed before the application is filed, which is what I was talking about in my report. Depending on what the dispute is considered to be the subject of a dispute, such as a husband, wife, and related relatives, I think that your proposal is, in this case, to consider it carefully, to associate carefully with the Family Code and, if necessary, to introduce this article, there are no problems. In the 15th article, what you asked is that if the judge goes where, well, of course, in that case, if the judge is transferred to another court, he can't be called back. And in this case, as I think it's logical to replace the judge completely, if you see in this case the need for this particular reason to be set out in the 15th article, it's also a clear solution when you prepare the final edition for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u102	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u103	Thank you. Communist faction, 161 constituency, Hinzburg. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! I have two questions. One of my colleagues asked me to ask you, and I have another question. The first is how long it can take, how long can it take, for example, to run a civil court case if we adopt the proposed bill today. That's the first question. Second, I am concerned about article 105. It is determined that court fines imposed on officials of public authorities will be collected from institutions, organizations from their own incomes. And if it's an institution and an organization that's not state-owned, then it's going to come from an organization, why am I asking that question? I've been working with a ministry today to pay off government debt on wages, and that's the problem with Conotap, and I'm being sent to the courts all the time. And I'd like to hear about this today, maybe it'll make some changes, that state-owned enterprises will actually give our people a salary, or it won't make any difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u104	This procedural code will affect this process, actually, if you've listened to me when I talked about the innovations that have been introduced, those that are not in our procedural legislation today, particularly with regard to the orderly implementation, that is, the simplified order that applies to a defined category of cases. One of these cases is a review of applications for wage expansion, which is listed but not paid. In this case, there will be no need to hold all court proceedings; the judge will issue an order immediately on the basis of the material available to him — that is, it will be done very quickly. In this case, this helps to solve the final question of the state-owned enterprises that you are talking about, and the wages, I hope that you and I will be able to consider in the near future further necessary changes in the current legislation that will address the disregard for today's moratorium on the alienation of state-owned enterprises. Or at least in the part that relates to salary payments on regressions and others that can't be done today if there's more than 20 percent of government property. And the same should apply to other cases, especially when bankruptcy is violated, when all implementations are stopped and there is also no possibility of pay, nothing else can be drawn. I hope that we will work with you here to work together and to deal with these problems in solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u105	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u106	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, part three of article 42, states that the trust of a natural person must be certified notarized in enterprises, organizations or devices where a natural person is employed or studied. But, as I understand it, the notary is the notary. It is appropriate to write in such a way that either the notary, or the enterprises, devices and organizations where the natural person is studying or working.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u107	Yeah, it's just grammatically missing here, of course it's notational or. Unfortunately, it was grammatical. Clearly, the right to representation of interests is formed either yes or as today, by the way, in procedural legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u108	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, thank you, all the questions have been asked. Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u109	Basil Onopenko, head of the Ukrainian Social Democratic faction, is non-factional. I'm sorry for my voice, but I think you'll hear me. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. Work on the new Civil Procedure Code has been going on since 1992. There were several committees. And what the new CDC introduced today is based on the work that was still there. But you might ask, why couldn't we introduce a new Civil Procedure Code earlier? Because we didn't have a Constitution, because just a year ago, we passed a new Law on the judiciary, where we defined the system of courts. And then it was only possible to prepare a whole new Civil Procedure Code. So on behalf of the committee, I thank everyone who worked, really, the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court, the scientists, the deputies for the Titanic work, the Titanic work. You can adopt many laws of a material nature, a civil code, a family code, land, you can form any courts, but the rights and freedoms of citizens will not be protected until a procedure for dealing with a particular category of cases has been drawn up. And that's what the new Civil Procedure Code says. The Minister of Justice has quite carefully examined the draft law, and I'm just going to stop at some of the features. For one thing, this project has six chapters, 422 articles, and 43 chapters. If you've noticed, the Civil Procedure Code removes sections and chapters relating to the regulation of legal relations that come out of an administrative legal nature. That is, the election to the local councils, to the Supreme Council, the prosecution of the actions of officials, the authorities of the state executive branch. We deleted it. I think they did the right thing, because it's about creating an administrative court, an administrative justice, and it's in the new Administrative and Procedural Code, introduced by the deputies, and, I think, soon, a doctor, professor of law, Victor Lavrentiovich Musiaka will report on the new Administrative and Procedural Code in this room. That's why we removed it. There's another feature, your honor, that's the question of appeal. It's not as sure as it seems for the first time. The new Civil Procedure Code is that appeals and cassation should be at the level of one court, i.e. an appeal court or earlier, a district court. So the formal composition of the district court or the appeal court now divides into two halves, one dealing with appeals, and the other dealing with complaints. I have great doubts because it's one group, they're not just working together, they're drinking coffee together, they're communicating, people are human. I think there may not be an open courtship and a case-by-case hearing in this case. And the Court of Justice Act provides for an appeal at the level of the area, and the cassation -- a more different level -- is a court of cassation to create. Of course, certain expenses and everything else, but if we want complaints to be handled objectively, comprehensively, I think we need to think deeply about the matter, even though I do not rule out such an approach. This is already the concept of legislators. Another novelty, I think, is extremely interesting, is that complaints have to be filed -- appeals -- not to the local court of court, but to the Court of Appeal or to the court of cassation. And in this way, the Supreme Court will require and determine the case, verify the evidence of the complaint. It's very important and I'm grateful to the developers because I personally get a lot of statements on the committee that cases don't go to the Court of Appeal, and I don't get a lot of approval, approval, and so people can't protect their rights and freedoms. Dear colleagues! I think that although there are some shortcomings in the new Civil Procedure Code, I think we are taking a big step towards codifying and systematizing our legislation. I think the new Civil and Procedural Code is much more perfect than the old Civil and Procedural Code, which was adopted back in 1963, and if I didn't say anything, if the Minister of Justice hadn't said anything, that's his advantage, because he's taking into account the new substance, which is the new state, there's a new ideology. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u110	Thank you, too. It's a question, isn't it? Please, let's sign up, five minutes then. Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, please be logged in.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u111	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you very much for the opportunity to ask questions of Vasil Vasilovich. And the question is. To develop what Olga Petrovna Hinzburg was talking about. Today, as we know, in a civil trial, the court can go on indefinitely -- it would only be a desire for the parties to the trial to do so. There are such facts as six years, eight years, and so forth. Is the new Code of Civil Procedure any kind of restriction on that? I know that the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine has been on trial for illegally privatized boarding houses and hotels at the Institute of Theorphysics for over six years. And they suddenly discovered that they're in the same place they started today. The charges -- once again, the new grounds -- two, the court's execution starts -- three, all of these are challenged, all of them are accused, and so on and so forth. So maybe somehow you can win this process or end it with something? Who can put the point in this matter?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u112	Sergey Ivanovich, you just asked a very important question. This is the question of the new Civil Procedure Code and the Court of Justice Act. Really, how was it possible before? The Supreme Court examines the complaint, overturns the decision and directs it to a new hearing, and so for years, the parties die, the new expertise goes on and on and on, I'm not talking about health and everything else. We introduce the concept of an appeal court, where we give the opportunity to re-evaluate and take the decision of a higher court without again referring to a lower court. And the minister of justice has already told you about the introduction of the new chapter, the new chapter of the court order. Without prejudice to the case in general, where there is a written agreement, certified by written agreement or notary, where there are other appropriate grounds, a court order is issued which is the nature of the implementing document. And immediately, within five days, it starts to work. We simplify that. There are other novels, but I don't want to take up time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u113	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u114	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski and Žovkovsky districts, Lvivščina Dear reporter Vassil Vasilovich, there are two life stories that I have, perhaps very awake, but lifelike questions. First. How is this going to work out? You know how Kalchenk's election, which was coming from Julia Timoshenko's block, was taken off in a few minutes, literally, before the deadline was over, and there was nothing to be accused of. And instead, there was a candidate who didn't get close to him. That's the first question. How is this going to be normalized, or are you transferring this to administrative processual? The second question is also purely lifelike. I think it's very normal that we did go to ban auto inspection. I was just there today at a meeting of the Kiev City Council where they discussed this issue, take pictures of, say, numbers, and go to a civilized version -- receipt, pay a fine, and you want to -- go to court. You can see for yourself, when we overload our judges, how scary it gets and scares off many of the same drivers, I say that as a driver, this is an opportunity to go to trial, because knowing what it will be. That's why it's better to give a bribe to an inspector and all that. These are the kind of people you should forgive so that they are not too keen but very important questions of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u115	Thank you. I'm going to say that all of these issues are being transferred to the new administrative and procedural code, and there will be not only issues related to the election, but also relevant acts of the President, even the Supreme Council, if this draft code goes through. But we've already considered here today, at a session of the Supreme Council, a bill stipulating that the decisions of the local courts, which were formerly final and were not subject to charges, should today be brought against the CDC against the higher court. So we've unlocked. I just can't remember whether the President signed these amendments to the Civil Procedure Code. This needs to be settled. Including proper road inspection. Police officers - all of these issues will be regulated by the new Administrative and Procedural Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u116	Basil Nadrag, People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u117	Vasily Vasilyevich, I wanted to agree with your thesis that man is weak. You're absolutely right about that. And it's also true that I'm in solidarity with you when you say that cassation and appeal cases, if that's what one court is looking at, then people, you're absolutely right, which, I stress, work together, have a personal, friendly, what kind of relationship, so I have not so much a question as a wish. I agree, and I think we will generally support your position on first reading, but this is what needs to be done in court-level appeals and cassation cases, and I would like the committee to take this subject and finalize it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u118	Thank you. But make suggestions, two weeks of reading, we'll be grateful for these suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u119	Yes, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u120	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Basil Vasilovich, I would like to ask you: How do you feel about the fact that Articles 326 and 356 contain a virtually anti-constitutional position that appeals, cassational institutions in their decisions should necessarily refer to the clarification of the plenary of the Supreme Court? This is contrary to the part of article 129 of the Constitution where the court is governed only by law and only by law, and the clarification of the plenary is not even a legal act. How do you react because you did not say it in the report, that it should be expelled and even thought that it was impossible for judges? The judges have to obey only the law, and the guidelines of the plenary are old. It's just a generalization of court practice and no more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u121	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. You know that this practice is now in place when an explanation of the plenary of the Supreme Court, which generalizes a category of cases, is handled by judges. I think there's a problem here, and that's the question of the source of the law, is there a decision of the plenary the source of the law? Yes. So in the second reading, let us all think together, and we will again address this problem. I agree that there is a problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u122	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Yeah, it's Yuri Carmazin. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u123	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Of course, the fact that such global codes went and started to be adopted, to be considered as criminal and procedural, civil and procedural, administrative and procedural, that's very good, and that's just to be welcomed. But I would like to make sure that, in order for our judicial authority to function democratically, we have made observations today that need to improve this code. Can it be conceptually accepted in the first reading? I think it's possible to accept it conceptually in the first reading. But references to laws, particularly in the first article, that determine the order of conduct in civil matters, should be limited to the Constitution, which defines principles. No other laws should be mandatory in the adoption of the Civil Procedure Code. This needs to be clearly understood and conducted throughout the world. The entire canoe of this code is supposed to be. There was absolutely no place in the text of the bill, such as in the best past traditions, the principle of dissatisfaction If this principle is not reflected, it can be assumed that the new CDC did not take place. The constitutional basis for fixing this principle in the CDC text is the second part after the associate "a" in article 129, paragraph 4, of the Constitution of Ukraine. Even today in KPC summer, we found it possible to record this principle in article 16 above, and it is active in the modern criminal process. So I feel that he must be here too. The text of the law, in particular article 37, should reflect the court’s obligations to participate in the third party trial. A test of the law, for example, requires a new conceptual approach and reprocessing. Reprocessing is to represent the interests of the state and of the state alone, and of those citizens who cannot defend themselves can defend themselves by the prosecutor. Only then can he have the right to appeal and appeal if he has not taken part in the case. What is happening today is that the state’s robbery is also explained by the fact that the prosecutor cannot bring about an act of reaction in a case in which he has not taken part. Even when it is a matter of national interest, it protects the interests of a minor. This article 53 should be added to the list of persons who are entitled to refuse to testify in court, provided that such testimony falls under article 13 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine. It is necessary to supplement this text by instructing the court to warn the participants of the individual’s right to refuse to give a witness. Next. I think that the text needs other conceptual details that I've been talking about today and in particular, I've been raising. Thank you, because there is very little time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u124	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Tarasa Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u125	Dear colleagues! I was delighted to come out to this rostrum today. This always happens to me when codes are adopted when it comes to the adoption of fundamental laws that govern each other's lives. Of course, we need to adopt specific laws and apply laws, it's all necessary, it's all normal, routine legislative activity. But when such codes are adopted, the Supreme Council rises whether it raises legislative activity to a new, higher level. So I'm also celebrating the fundamentality of this code, and what's behind it is the work of many scientists, theorists and practitioners. The bill is designed to ensure that justice is swift and fair, which is not always easy to combine. It is aimed at protecting the rights and freedoms of citizens. In particular, the novelties that it contains bear witness to this, such as a simplified procedure for dealing with civil matters, with predictable safeguards for abuse, a mechanism of appeal and cassation, clearly stated. I share the idea that today we can conceptually support this codex and adopt it in the first reading. At the same time, I'd like to draw your attention to some of the painful points, maybe not even as much of this code as the civil process. In order to bring about a crime without crime. What is it? It is the conformity of the Constitution of all norms, all novels, all the positions of this code. Here you can find some disagreements. Next, it is to write out a clear mechanism for protecting a person from the state so that a person can appeal to a court of law, and he was confident that the court would make the right decision. Next is the distribution of rights between the prosecutor and the judge, the role of each party, the interaction, the balance of rights and duties between the prosecutor and the judge. It also happens, I support here was an offer about the need to distribute appeal and cassation rights. Finally, to ensure the objectivity of court decisions and to enforce court decisions. We have just the biggest pain point in the execution of court decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u126	Thank you. Please, "Our Ukraine" faction, prepare Kirilenko. Will you be performing?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u127	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We all know that civil affairs are brought to the level of the greatest confusion, and it is in civilian matters that our courts are the most overloaded. For example, when you enter the Chamber of Civil Affairs of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, you can see that it is, in fact, the most crowded in the travel situation, with cases that are not yet solved sufficiently in the legislative order. What is involved in this codex? It should be accepted, of course, in the first reading. Notices to him are small, but many, such as the underwritten problem of non-material damage compensation if it allows for total volunteerism. Not enough for me, a rule has been drawn up on cases that may be brought before the Constitutional Court. We need to be more specific about the procedure for the acceptance of appeals and cassation. Thank God, this is a little bit of a solution, but this problem in Ukraine is still still not conceptually resolved, as to where to apply an appeal, a cassational complaint, what the terms of the process are, since, here, this has already been mentioned in the speech of the committee head, volunteerism and abuse, perhaps the greatest in our case. Individually, the right to leave should be noted outside the requirements claimed by the parties. This is rejected completely in this process, and for me, there are situations where these things need to be done, especially where it applies to persons who are incompetent or children and to the protection of their rights. The court should still have the right to intervene in those trials. For me, there is no need to work out the position of the judge, to write procedures, perhaps to specify the procedures for minor cases involving fines and so on. Could they be subject to a court order that is imposed here, that, in principle, as to me, it is normal without having a proper court hearing. There are things that draw a little bit to the relapse of the old customary law. It's in the Anglo-Saxon world. Whether we can introduce it into ourselves in forms such as explaining the plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine or not. To do this, we must first make a completely conceptual decision. We do belong to Roman law, not to English case law. If we take the principle of precedent, it should be stated more clearly, not in the individual standards of this direct code. If we take it, well, then we have to write every moment where it can be applied, and how clearly it can be. Since we don't have this in the Constitution, as Carmazin tells me, then these things need to be repealed from the law. So there's no violation of the Constitution. As with me, the time from which the limitation period in the appeal process is counted should be extended somewhat, since serious problems arise and the system of extension of the limitation period is softened. This softens the system itself of granting the right to extension of the limitation period, since many problems arise because of the basic legal ignorance of people. And the last point. As for the Transitional Regulations. We need to harmonize and harmonize very clearly with other laws to which it has a direct bearing. And the Civil Code, and the amendments to the law on the judiciary of the Administrative Procedure Code, otherwise we'll have serious problems. And I am sorry that the representatives of the Supreme Court of Ukraine are not invited here, including the head of the Supreme Court of Civil Affairs, because it would be interesting to hear their position too, because this would be a direct block. Thank you. The law as in my first reading should be adopted with certainty.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's finish the discussion. Decisions on the draft Civil Procedure Code will be taken on the day of the vote. I thank you for taking part in the consideration of this issue by the Minister of Justice of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! We've got the next question on the line -- the draft law on simple and double warehouses. Do you think we would have heard an explanation from the secretary of state, asked questions, and would have been limited? No objections? Come on, this is a very important law and question for us, obviously, the issue is important. Please, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economics and European Integration First Vladimir Leonidovich. Very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u129	Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! For the further development of the agrarian sector, the issue of substantially increasing lending is very relevant. And that's only possible if you create reliable loan-back mechanisms, introduce financial instruments that would allow you to significantly expand the circle of potential investors. One such tool is the composite testimonies. This mechanism, by the way, works effectively in many countries around the world, by the way, in the United States since 1916, Hungary adopted such a law in 1996, it was introduced in Slovakia, Bulgaria. With a view to creating legal bases for the introduction of warehouse certificates in Ukraine and in accordance with paragraph three of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Grain and Grain Market in Ukraine, a draft Law on Simple and Double Complex Testimony has been prepared. The draft law consists of 28 articles. In accordance with the bill, the component certificates are part of the warehouse documents and are presented with two types: simple composite testimonies and double testimonies. A double composite witness, unlike the simple one, consists of two parts — a composite and ad hoc — that can be separated from each other. Ingredient certificates are issued by certified warehouses following the acceptance of the goods for storage and the conclusion of the contract of a certificate of incorporation. The forms of the composite testimonies are documents of strict accounting. Their form, order of manufacture and use according to the bill is established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. For the purpose of calculating the details of the certificates issued, it is envisaged that warehouse registers and a single national register are kept by the authorized authority for the regulation of commodity markets. It's very brief about the mechanism of the warehouse testimonies. The owner of the product, for example, after harvesting the crop, places the grain on a certified warehouse, makes a storage contract with it, and receives the goods as a composite document, a simple or double composite certificate. In order to get his goods out of stock, the manufacturer must present either a simple witness or both parts of the double witness. In case the manufacturer wants to get a loan on a stock of grains, he has to give the credit institution one part of the double certificate. I mean, it's a default certificate as a way to get the loan back. At the end of the credit agreement, the manufacturer either repays the loan and receives the mortgage certificate back, or sells his grain to a third party, who also hands a portion of the double certificate a composite certificate. Then the third person is already responsible to the credit institution for repaying the loan. In case the manufacturer is unable to sell his grain and pay off the loan, the product at the request of the creditor is already being delivered by a warehouse, but, I want to pay your attention, at the auction. The rights of a double composite witness, a composite and ad hoc testimony, are passed on by means of a transferable inscription that testifies to the transfer of rights to another person. The introduction of the circulation of simple and double warehouse certificates will help to raise the income of agricultural producers, reduce price fluctuations, mobilize credit resources into agriculture through the formation of financial resources. And last but not least, Vladimir Mikhailovich, very briefly. Regarding the observation of the Supreme Council's Office of Experts and Analysis. The point is that I notice that they don't, this bill doesn't correspond to the codes -- civil and agricultural -- but the point is that the bill was drafted and introduced before they were adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u130	We'll agree in the process of preparing for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u131	Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u132	National Deputy Hirschfeld Anatoly Musiovich of the Committee. Please. Head of the Subcommittee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. One minute, please. Now all Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin will explain, the questions will be answered. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u133	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! The Storage Certificates Act has the following basic idea: there is a legislative possibility for the delivery of documents that will objectively facilitate the conduct of business, both to the owners of goods and to banks. and other actors in this activity. The owner of the goods shall receive a warehouse certificate after he has deposited the goods. The certified warehouse shall store the goods. The warehouse certificate is a proof, above all, of the availability of goods for a potential buyer and accurately determines its location. The owner of the goods can sell the goods, take the credit on bail, and simply store the goods and warehouses. That's the law, really. is something, well, it has practice in all the developed countries of the world. In our country, however, there is a significant gap in the turnover of documents. Ideally, it is possible to create markets for many types of goods, not only for grain, when prices for such goods are determined by market quotations. As a result, the process could be geared towards the establishment of normal systems of goods for different sectors of the national economy. Agricultural producers will potentially be able to sell through stock exchanges. The loan procedure also becomes simpler and more transparent for banks. As a result, both the creditor and the lender win. The same can be said of insurance. In the course of the transfer of property rights, sellers and buyers are better protected from fraud as well as risks of loss and damage to goods. It should be noted that the bill has not been deprived of certain shortcomings. The articles relating to the concept of “good warehouse” should be harmonized with the Civil Code and in favour of the latter. The Committee is of the view that certification issues should be made more clearly and that warehouses that do not carry out the issue of storage certificates should be removed, as there is no need for unnecessary business regulation. The procedure for the extradition, transfer, payment and treatment of witnesses should also be clarified in order to avoid different interpretations. Having examined the law, the Committee reached the following conclusion: the law recommended that it be adopted as a basis, as it aimed at eliminating legislative gaps, enhancing market and wholesale trade, banking and insurance activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u134	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u135	I'm very short. Dear colleague, and I am addressing the Secretary of State, it is good that we are adopting this law, and we are voting for it. But this idea of my soul and mind is constantly eating: Is this law needed when all our warehouses next year are empty, because it's projected to be so objective to have, at best, millions of 18 of them, 10 of them already sold, and 8 of them are going to be sold to us. What do you think about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u136	I think that this year, especially in any year, the peasant will need to be properly credited. And even the crops that they will have, they will be able to make a proper wager. In fact, we are adopting a mechanism that will not only work this year, it will, this law will be a tool for the establishment of a normal collateral mechanism and the handling of documents for many years.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u137	Yes, please, Taras Cranville and Storm, and we'll be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u138	Dear reporter, I am absolutely not a specialist in all warehouses and warehouses; I have a simple question: is it necessary to adopt a separate law for this issue, and cannot be settled in existing laws, codes, this issue, this problem, so as not to multiply these laws and not just make confusions?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u139	I wish to draw my colleagues' attention to the importance of this law. This practice exists all over the world, so far the electricians, the keepers of agricultural products, they had no external documents, they had a so-called form 13 that talked about the quality of the product and no more. In order to properly organize stock trade, a legal basis is needed to simplify the movement of these instruments in order to ensure that the goods on storage are the subject of collateral.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u140	A stormy faction of the Social-Democratic Party. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u141	Your Honor, I support your view that the adoption of this law is absolutely necessary, but I have not a question, but a suggestion. The explanatory note to the bill states that if the bill is adopted, there is a need to amend the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax and On Insurance, but the text of the draft law does not provide for such changes, so the adoption of the bill in this way will lead to the existence for a period of time of non-compliance with these laws, and obviously these issues need to be settled.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u142	I'll give you a brief answer to that question. The Committee does not fully agree that the adoption of this law will result in additional taxes, this relates to obligations arising from the warehouse in the event of risks to the borrower. There may be no regulation of other treaties, of commissions, of commission contracts, of commission contracts, in which case there will be no additional tax obligations and there will be no need to reconcile this issue with other VAT legislation and profit tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u143	Thank you, sit down, please. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u144	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to think, for today, there are active laws of almost 2,000 and a half. Two and a half thousand laws in force today. Please tell us who we're writing them for, if they're lawyers, not everyone can even get to know them. If it's for ordinary citizens, I'll tell you clearly that we're doing a very bad thing. If they are to work, you think that 2,500 can be reconciled. Yeah, if only by word of mouth you'll agree on how much time we'll take. So, I want to say that the provisions that are provided for in this Law on Simple, Double and Ingredient Testimony need to be settled, but you need completely different laws. This should be written in the Code of Masters, where the entire chapter 2 of chapter 66 is devoted to "preservation", 291 "preservation in store." It's in the Civil Code, where the prediction of the 66th, and the 291st in the Master's. If written, then the issue of the issue of the release and circulation of warehouse certificates should be settled, and the project only refers to the fact that the requirements for the register of warehouse certificates and the order of their entry in part three of article 6 of the project, as well as the certification of warehouses in part three of article 8 of the project, will be carried out by the Office of the Ministers specializing in the regulation of commodity markets. However, who defines other issues of important regulation of the circulation of composite certificates and who controls this law is not set up by this project. So we're going to come soon, in my opinion, to the marasmatic suggestion that we're going to regulate the chamber in a storage unit for individual sausages, separately grains, separately something else. So I would like to pay attention to those national MPs who say that this law is absolutely necessary and so on about the need for systematization and codification of legislation. I'm paying attention to that and to the Science and Experimental Department, when you write that the law can be adopted in the first reading, think conceptually about where you're all pushing the state. I'm going to Victor Yanukovic, Victor Fedorovich, when you sign the law, you're going to think about what this law is and what you want to load a very important organ, at least we respect ourselves as national deputies, because we're ambassadors to the people, what you're loading this organ with. By such laws, if you'll excuse me, it's distracting the Supreme Council from the sinister objects of activity. I will vote against this law for these rules to be found in other codified acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Discussion of the draft Law on Simple and Double Ingredient Testimony has been completed. I think it's very obvious for all of us that it's important to adopt this law, obviously with further development. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. Let's move on to different things. Please indicate on the table the name of the national deputies who signed up for the performance in various ways. Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, Communist faction, please. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u146	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! After the Hall left Castle Black, we have very few left here, but since the question that I want to address is very important, I'm taking action. This is about what, unfortunately, our newspaper today is called the Voice of Ukraine, and I ask you to take it as a reference to you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, has done against our party and the leader of our party, against our faction a monstrous provocation. I quote from the article on page 2, signed by Juliana Shevchuk. "In addition, the President liked, liked and could not fail to comment by Communist leader Peter Simonnck on the possibility of continuing the presidential powers until 2006 to hold the presidential elections simultaneously with the parliamentary elections." [[This is about reform.]] [[Pay attention.]] What I'm saying is that this message doesn't fit the reality, and it's a crude fiction. Never, none of the party’s leaders, especially Simonenko, claimed anything like this. This is against Simonek's authority, against the authority of our party. And we ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that this lie be immediately rectified. And there's a place where all the readers of the newspaper "The Voice of Ukraine" would notice. Simonenko talked about this. He said that in the Transitional Situations, the Final Positions could be an option to predict the 2004 election of the President for two years. For two years! After that, we will begin to fulfill the arrangements that will be reached. But the 2004 presidential election is a must, and we have always insisted and insisted. I would not even want our opponents to be provoked against them. I wouldn't. And I want you to stay here as long as you can to bring those words to your districts and to your constituents. And the second question. This publication changed the text of my talk. I'm very sorry, I wanted to say that in Ukraine, if you have children, you have to raise your parents' salary three or four times because that's not the case. So it does not correspond to the level of productivity achieved. We need to get the pay right. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u147	Dear National Deputies! Positions have now been clarified. Let's just say that journalists are entitled to their point of view, especially today is Employee's Day. It's a professional journalist's day. Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Prepare Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u148	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to report that I have more.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u149	Dear National Deputies! As for the reports that someone has given someone a word, let's make a deal. If there's a man in the room, let him pass. All the other leaves aren't accepted. Three minutes, please. I say again, you don't take these papers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u150	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, reverend people of Ukraine! I want to draw attention to a few serious issues for the life of the state. First of all, I want to point out that we need to stop the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is taking place in the Kirovograd region in terms of treatment facilities. This is how voters report that the local media publishes the initiative of the head of the Power Authority to transfer the Kyrovograd Children's Hospital to the SMS-6 premises for which the relevant instructions are given. After the renovations of the district children’s hospital, there will be a third city hospital. What's the ultimate goal of this "retirement"? The point is that this Third City Hospital is located in the center of Kyrovgrad and has a total area of more than 4,000 square meters. And given the circumstances that practically the entire housing fund, which belongs to the city property in downtown Kyrovgrad, is already privatized, the Third Hospital's facility for today is a lean piece for those willing to warm their hands. I would like to refer to this as a question to Prime Minister Janukovic, who covers the administration of the Kirovograd region, how the city's dental clinic could have been privatized, which is also located in the central part of the city, where the cost of one square meter at auctions in the next was about $4. It's nothing but corruption at the highest level. I'm addressing you and I'm showing you a letter from a group of colonels -- ten men of the medical service who are calling attention to the destruction of the Alupkin Military Clinic -- the only sanatorium that is designed to treat those who have fallen ill in the army of military personnel, as well as the pensioners of the Ministry of Defense, members of the families of these retirees. This sanatorium cannot be destroyed. I propose that Yanukovich cancel his orders, the more we have adopted the Tuberculosis Control Act is the President's decree on measures to combat tuberculosis. The third question that I want to get your attention on is this question of economics about the implementation of passport forms that are somehow lacking to citizens right now. Two bracelets are used to make one passport form. Every citizen pays two and a half times for a country passport, and for a foreign national, 90 dollars, with an accelerated version, 180 dollars. Hence, from each passport form, the state has a load of three to 178 bracelets. During the period 95-2002, the Ministry of Internal Affairs reported that only 42 million national passports were formed and issued under the National Passport Programme and that more than 100 million dollars were received. Where did the money go? There was money in 97. Now. What, for whom do we do this, and why do we make an artificial deficit? So I'm drawing your attention, and I'm asking you to define this as a parliamentary question. And, honourable people's deputies, we need to ensure that the Constitution is implemented by the executive branch. Maybe we should dedicate a special government day to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u151	Thank you. Valentin Gurov, National Authority MP. Olga Hinsburg will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u152	Vadim Gurov, Krivbass. First of all, I think I'm going to be supported by all the deputies, and I'd like to congratulate the press on this. Of course, congratulations to the press on this professional holiday. Especially the Krivbass Brotherhood is a sacred matter. And what I'm saying is that the words "I'm an independent journalist," because it's not up to me, it's never about our journalists. In general, I have always believed and believe that a journalist, like a member of the Supreme Council, is not a profession, it is a state of the soul! Thus, their creative success and strength! [[Applause]] And now I give my job to journalists because they don't always find it even on these holidays. You see, there's a President's decree that we have to pay wages first, otherwise what does a person go to work for? That's what we're just saying. We're happy to be back. In principle, this joy is rarely achieved. He's working, working again to feed his family. What do we really do? The President's orders are in. How does it work? One example of the common people who were attacked a week ago in the Horn of Curve is that 300 people do not receive wages for two years. Three hundred men. It's a very, very serious symptom. Why? Because, you see, in 2001, we went bankrupt, it was ATP-16, it was our biggest base, and then there was a game that I think is in every constituency. This goes to the arbitral administrators. So he's in charge of the district court, then what they want is what they do. They're setting up their own order. As a result, I will list where the money was paid. And practically these people, my constituents, owe 600,000, and the receivable is practically a million. It would seem easier to pay! They paid everywhere, all the funds, all the fees, all the places! They just didn't pay the employee. So I want to tell everyone that if we keep this up and we don't pay our wages like this, we won't go far. The same thing happened at Kirov's ore when 300 people were not paid for eight months. The issue has now been resolved. I therefore appeal to the arbitral judge Dnepropetrovska: solve the problem. Don't decide. We, MPs, will decide for you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u153	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction, get ready for Odynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u154	Dear People's Deputies, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished voters! Commie faction, Ginsburg, 161st constituency. I have come to this rostrum and I would like to have the courage to say that today, as if the presidential election campaign had already begun unspokenly, and many who want to be President simply don't know what to do, that's how to jump forward. They don't know what to do, and they don't know how. And I think I would have seen questions that would have given the President an opportunity. Who wants to be president there, to win. These are the recommendations I have to make. If this man or whoever is in power today, I know who he might be, bring such problems to the Supreme Council today or to the debate of our people and be able to solve them. And here's the problem. Of course, he would have been the Pezident, of course, he wouldn't have had to do anything. What do you want to do? About the cancellation of tariffs. No, about cheating, we accepted. reducing tariffs on utility services is heat, gas, water and light. They're disproportionately tall today is the first question that needs to be addressed. First of all, raising pensions is the main thing. Next, the minimum wage and the minimum wage. Fourth, on the payment of debt on wages, especially at state-owned enterprises. Fifth, the return on local coal subsidies, scrapped gas, and so on, since normal people are preparing for the winter. On the repayment of debts to local budgets, on the return of benefits to low-income, many-year-olds, black people, and other categories of the population. It's a question of unemployment that we have to solve with you today. State price control for primary goods, priority for agricultural prices, the return of money saved by the State in 1991, and the implementation of the Constitution for free treatment and training. The main thing is that we could have decided if we were to reinvigorate industry and agriculture. I'm talking about it and a little bit of humor, which is a very difficult and very serious question, they're painful questions in our population, and they're expecting us to solve it. And today, there is an opportunity for the President to decide these issues and how to resolve them. I represent the Suman region and I have an example of how these issues can be addressed. For example, when the efforts of all public authorities are being directed, for example, as discussed in us from the change to the Constitution, we are being discussed today, or this political reform of ours. All administrations, factories, small, large, village councils, the Sumska administration all worked to discuss the issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u155	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u156	If we could come up with these questions that I called, we could solve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u157	I think all the candidates for the presidency won't remember all these demands for the first time, they'll have to repeat it several times. Please, Nicholas Odynik, is it? There is no Odynik, then Anatoly the Orzhachov faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u158	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Head, fellow MPs, voters. Seven months later, when my colleague Samuel and I asked, by the way, he was the first to be supported in today's composition by almost a constitutional majority of the votes of Ukraine's national deputies to the President of Ukraine. It was a question of the legality of the transfer of VAT shares to the statutory fund of the lysing company of Ukraine. The President sent the materials to the Attorney General's Office, which, according to the Ukrainian Procurator's Act, is to oversee compliance with the laws relating to economic relations. And how does it do so? We were previously informed by a letter dated 19.11.2002 that a law enforcement check was being carried out in connection with the creation of the VAT lysing company Ukraine’s investment. In the course of the tests, the materials required from Kabmin, the Maintenance Fund, the Ministry of Justice, and six months of silence. It seems to me that law enforcement agencies are not interested in the business community, its manufacturing activities, the public thinking, and a lot of them, because hersons can't understand who the owner of the enterprise is, the state, the shareholders, or the Kiev oligars. In my opinion, even in the direction of the procurator's office, both in the center and at the location of the Herson combines company, someone is adept at holding back the process of checking and responding to the people's MP. Based on what I have said, I am now making a new request to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Piscoon, to implement the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, as part of informing the real situation of the problems that have been violated in the parliamentary inquiry. I also ask the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the problems of socio-economic development of the village of Brelovka Hersson district meliorators about the problems he has reported to the deputies from this rostrum and more than six months ago. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine gave the commission, but the response was zero. So none of the senior officials at the level of the Turupin region, the authorities and the government visited the village, and even more, offered an official solution to the economic and social impasse, and did not respond to the author's request. Time goes, the village goes down, the businesses don't work, unemployment goes up. In the winter, Brelovka can enter again without heat and water. I realize that from Kiev, Harrison, to the village, the road is far away, but it is possible for government officials to reach it even when they move to Crimea for recreation. It's on the way to many trains, you have to say, and thank the Minister of Transportation of Kirpey, who has responded positively, and for the summer season, he did make a stop in this village of the right trains. This is how officials care for small villages, seek ways to help depressed regions, and their inhabitants. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u159	Vladimir Puzakov, the successor will be the Robot.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u160	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština In my speech, I would like to address the President of Ukraine: "Mr. President! When you speak to your fellow countrymen, it may be time to look around. You claim that this year is the best, the best in comparison with the past. You can't even see in your Chernigovina, the ruined villages and towns, the unsowed fields, the people, the water-deprived, the terrible unemployment around, the indifference. And what are the achievements, and what do you see them in? Of course, one is that there are no queues in stores, and people are afraid to go in there because there is no wallet. What are the prices? People live under constant stress, waiting for something terrible. And it's not coming up. Wakeed up on the morning of May 24, and in shops without notice, the value of bread weighing 700 grams [700 g] one bracelet of 30 copies and flour of 1 kg [1 kg] of bracelet 80 copies [80 kg]. And for what reasons? An explanation, please, for the people. Where are those millions of tons of grains of this year’s crop? Where is the grain and grain market law in Ukraine? The conclusion is neither the President nor the provisional government that changes almost every year, these laws are not implemented and are not responsible for anything. Pricelessly, the traders took the grain to the producers and sent it abroad, leaving the country without even the insurance supplies, and the government’s mortgage purchases were not carried out. Why did neither the President nor the provisional government talk about raising the price of bread products? I'm sure they were afraid. After all, the President himself stated that there was no reason to raise the price of bread. The Minister of Agriculture’s policy, Ribuk, has also stated this on several occasions and has also reported that the supply of flour and grain in the internal market is sufficient to produce the product, and that 80,000 tons have arrived in Ukraine for import. So let the people of Ukraine and Kirovogradi know that their gold grains of a higher species from the known rulers have been exported to the border by 200 dollars per tonne, and they have brought 80,000 tons of grain to Ukraine, but they are feed grains. For example, grain was brought to Kirovograd Station in nine wagons. But it's not even hot, it's with bugs that are not in Ukraine yet. There a group of soldiers were assigned to poison the grain in their gas masks, and today it is under secret protection. That's what we've been prepared to do before we die. Is that what the masters do or the temporary rulers do? So hurry up, ladies and rulers, to do your black work, because it's almost time for the election campaign, when you're giving, besides the bee seed, sweet promises and increasing pensions, scholarships, wages for 0.1 and 24 hours a day, you'll be talking about taking care of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u161	Yuri Orobec, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare the People's Deputy of the Suhih.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u162	Yuri Orobec, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Three weeks from now, our country will be celebrating the 7th anniversary of the Constitution. I'm sorry to realise right now that the main task for Ukrainian politics is to protect the Constitution from its guarantor. This country, as if enchanted by its empty proposals, offers something that no one is comfortable with. Tell me, is it convenient for the Ukrainian people to have a bicameral Cabinet of Ministers when one chamber is appointed by a parliamentary majority and the other chamber is appointed by the President? What director may say that under such conditions of formation and direction an enterprise will succeed? Two rooms are offered. The lower chamber has only four powers of more than 30, which are now in the Constitution. So it's not good for the parties either. The upper room of 87 deputies, where they will be selected only on lists. She's not comfortable with the major MPs who went through a serious fight. Such a Parliament is not comfortable with the speaker. Please tell us, when another chamber and a new speaker appear, the political weight of our Chief of the Supreme Council decreases in half. In fact, the governors dream of choosing and being independent of the President's will, who reports at the last minute and the governors are in a pre-cancer state. This permanent incomprehensible one, which no one is comfortable with, only implements the one principle: I control everything -- I don't answer for anything. So this is not convenient, why is such a scheme being made? The answer is very simple: it's not about the welfare of the state, it's not about making a parliamentary majority that would shape the Cabinet of Ministers -- it would be for the benefit of Ukraine, it's only about the leather interests. The question lies only in one plane - where the current president, Leonid Danilovich, will be holding the pension, next to the parliamentary bench with Leonid Kravchuk, or in the Lukyan prison detention center. I believe that the only way to ensure fair presidential elections is to have strict civil control and beyond parliamentary methods, when the entire nation will have to be raised up to commit civil disobedience to such sinister intentions of the oligarchs and the incumbent president. So let us celebrate and protect our Constitution from someone who has never guaranteed it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u163	Thank you. Mikola Sokirko, faction of our Ukraine, please. Igor Šurm will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u164	Mikola Sokirko, Our Ukraine, Solidarity. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear colleagues. According to the calendar plan for the third session last week, we deputies worked in our districts. With pain and anxiety, we are once again moving the problems of our Ukrainian village to the Supreme Council, where with the appeal of power, to the President, to the ministries and to the authorities, we are still asking for the immediate, unhindered support of the village that it so needs today, to the problems of economic, social and social. The country was also plagued by weather problems. This year’s crop yields alertly, causing even greater problems in the countryside. When you are in the district again in pain, you see the picture that is taking place in the villages, since most of the meetings were held in the countryside. The electorate shows the problems that exist in the country today. While in one of the villages in the Križopil region of Winnitsk, the Sharapan people, we can say that through our reforms we have made a lot of trouble and destroyed the village because no hectare of crops, no farms, no tractor brigades, no jobs in the village. And that's about 3,000. His land had a farm. And such examples convincingly show that in meeting with crying voters, you can see the anxiety of people who are waiting for support in the countryside. And we seem to own our own land, but actually far and wide. One of the most pressing issues in the village is the decommissioning of land rations. Unprofessionality in grooming leads to tragic consequences. Once again, I'm convinced that in one of the areas of Yampliel, land pies were distributed to social workers. The lists did not include persons, but the legal rights of those who worked on the earth for the rest of their lives were violated. As a result of irresponsibility and open fraud, some 300 cases have been dealt with by the district court in just one village during the year. After the collapse of the kolgos, the peasants received the very road in Ukraine — the land. Now what? How can all the troubles be overcome alone, and how can those living in villages where there were no colporteurs do so? For example, there was a beautiful village called Gonorovka in my district. The population is about a thousand. The main source, the method of earning peasants, was working at a local sugar plant, at a home factory, working for the rest of their lives, building them, protecting them from disagreements, and there were family arrangements at the factory. Now what? From the brilliantly designed design of a beautiful working factory, they made a metal scrape. A good team worked here because a team could still work today. What about the people? Does it matter? We have an economically harsh time like this. I think we should think about that, too, because the economy in human work is one of the fastest ways to earn, of course. But the village is dying. There is nothing but unemployment and a rich homeless land that has been privatized. Unemployment kills humanity so much that even children who have seen nothing but their own village try each other in a state of impossibility and impoverishment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u165	Yes, Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Mikhail Sithina. Is there Michael the Seed? Please be prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u166	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Two weeks ago, Yalta hosted the All-Ukrainian Council of Deputies of All Levels, elected by the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] At this meeting, our colleagues raised a number of problems in the work of local authorities and in the organization of land issues. I'd like to put a stop to these problems. In accordance with article 142 of the Constitution, the material and financial basis of local self - government is the movable and immovable property, the land, the natural resources that are owned by the territorial communities of villages, villages, cities, districts, and cities. as well as objects of their common property that are in the administration of district and district councils. Article 14 of the Constitution defines Ukraine. I think it's the right of citizens to own their property. legal persons and states are implemented exclusively by the laws of Ukraine. By establishing ownership of the land of citizens and legal persons, the basic law of the State thus recognizes the right of private property to land in Ukraine. This form of land ownership is recognized by the Ukrainian Land Codex, articles 80, 82. Ukraine’s new Earth Code on Lands of Municipal Property has not been properly addressed from the point of view of taking them to municipal or state property. The mechanism for implementing land law in land ownership is not regulated. In the land code, these questions are formulated only in general terms. It has been established that the territorial communities are in possession of municipal property in the event of transfer of land of state ownership, as well as in the case of the alienation of land, property belonging to owners on grounds of common necessity and for social needs. For other reasons, as stated by the law. Territorial communities, like other property rights entities on earth, can acquire land in municipal property on the basis of the general rules of civil law, such as acceptance of an inheritance, purchase of a contract of sale, donation. With a view to the institutional and legal process of ensuring the implementation of the laws of the land code relating to municipal property rights, there is a need for the development and adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Land Distinguishing, Municipal and State Property Rights. An appropriate bill has been prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We would like to announce, on behalf of the participants of the All-Ukrainian Council, what the seventh article would look like: "The Land of Municipal Property": "All the countries within the territorial communities, the settlements are communal property of the territorial communities, except: 1. Lands that are bound by this law to the lands of state property. 2. Lands owned by natural and legal persons .territorial communities are necessarily related to the land of municipal property: 1. Land areas that contain objects owned by local communities. 2. Land of the reserve fund. 3. Lands of communal pastures. 4. Beaches and suburban recreation areas 5. Cemetery." In practice, there is a problem with land use and management, land sales. Land areas that are within the territorial communities are sold by district government administrations without agreement with the relevant councils and are provided for the use of natural and legal persons. In our view, the Ukrainian law on the delimitation of state and municipal property needs to be adopted by the Supreme Council as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u167	Mikhail Sithina, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Istvan Geidosh will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u168	Thank you. Mikhail Sithina, 74-1 constituency, Zakarpatsk district, agririan faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies, distinguished voters! I was forced to go to the rostrum by circumstances associated with the state’s position at the Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood. As head of the Committee on Pharmacy and Pharmaceuticals, I cannot allow the branch to be torn down and the quality of the medical care provided to the people of Ukraine to deteriorate. What do my fears have to do with this? At present, the draft decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the establishment of the State Service for Medical and Medical Devices has been approved. So it's a state service project. The main thesis of this project is that a single body is being created that will form the order itself, produce itself, manage the industry itself, and control the quality of its produce, and force the people of Ukraine to do so. In view of the foregoing, I have calculated that the committee will respond to this unhindered situation, but no, the committee will have a situation where the committee's technical apparatus will extend those or other decisions and the committee members will act as observers. As a matter of fact, I personally addressed the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who responded promptly and in a balanced manner to my address and asked interested ministries and authorities to comment on these projects. The observations made by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economics, the Committee on Enterprise Development and others were completely consistent with mine. They took a very negative view of these projects, noting that, apart from lack of common sense, it violates four laws of Ukraine, the President's decree, and the main Law on Medicine of Ukraine. It seemed necessary to change the draft regulations in principle after the substantial comments had been made, but no, once again there was a draft regulation coming into the committee, which was virtually no different from previous projects, and instead of a principled discussion, I was confronted with a fundamental position of the committee that agreed with the Ministry of Health. You can see that it is very convenient for someone to create a structure that will destroy one of the few areas that has survived and successfully evolved in this difficult time. After working in this field for more than 20 years, I can't allow it to break down, I can't let the drug supply of the population of Ukraine deteriorate, I can't allow the structure of the sector to form into a specific person. Therefore, I ask the Supreme Council to step down with concern to the Ministry of Health on these projects and to create, with the participation of representatives of ministries, pharmaceutical scientists, representatives of the committee, a working group that will develop a draft position that will correspond to the current legislation and contribute to the development of the pharmaceutical sector, as well as to improving the medical security of the population of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u169	Istvan Haydos, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, prepare for the Overself. [[united]] Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u170	Istvan Haydos, electoral district number 72, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure every single one of you, like me, in the district work process, has faced the problems that are troubling education today. Yet schools with national languages have specific problems, such as learning the national language. Yes, only the Zakartat region has 73 general educational institutions with Hungarian, 30 with Ukrainian and Hungarian, which provide hundreds of certificates of maturity to young Ukrainian citizens each year. Yet, with the basic knowledge of various disciplines in his native language, the vast majority of graduates in the Ukrainian language are extremely disgruntled. This is due to the fact that children from a predominantly Hungarian-speaking environment only study the national language for 3-4 hours a week, and without the availability of specialized literature for teaching and teaching materials, interpreters, let alone computer programs. Unsatisfactory staffing of such schools by highly qualified professionals. The second pressing problem is the release of educational publications in the languages of national minorities. To produce educational literature in minority languages, up to 3-4 million dollars a year are needed. The cost of publishing textbooks comes to the publication with a great deal of lateness, which makes the editorial process extremely difficult. Serious anxiety is caused by concern over the declining circulation of teaching publications in the languages of national minorities. For example, the average amount of textbooks and textbooks for Hungarian - language schools declined from 7,000 copies in 1996 to 3-4 thousand. Similarly, such a situation arose with regard to the release of textbooks in Romanian and Polish. The fact is that there is a discrepancy between the individual need to teach literature for national minorities and the number of orders for certain types of publications. Yet, this has a significant impact on the price of each issue. I believe that these problems in a democratic state should be resolved immediately. That is why I draw the attention of officials to the weight of the issues mentioned and hope that they will be resolved quickly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u171	Basil Nadrag, please. Then Lechchenko. None. Then Grzezhev, national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u172	Vassili Nadrag, People's Choice, Lugansk Region. Dear colleagues! In my brief statement, I would like to return to the subject that we have been considering, the so-called, budgetary message and, accordingly, the tasks that are under the 2004 budget. Literally, two topics I'd like to hear. First. So far, the government project that we've been looking at has already been here, and I want to make it clear. To date, there has been no increase in public budget support for local budgets. In the language of professionals, transfers from the State budget to local budgets on two issues have not been increased to date. First. Changes in tax legislation. We have accepted that we will start working 13 per cent for individuals from 1 January. And the second, equally important, is that the minimum wage goes up to 237 grevens, and de facto is achieved in such a way that the budget resolution proposed to us today does not take this into account. Thus, local budgets will, once again, reduce health, education, utilities to the last penny in order to pay the minimum wage. Not enough to compensate for the decrease in income tax, which would result in a decrease of up to 13 per cent. It is therefore deeply convinced that the draft proposed to us should be clearly stated as a guide, because this budget resolution, the question that budgetary transfers from the State budget to local budgets should be increased, but should not be omitted in any event. Second question concerning the budget. Regrettably, why I say "to great regret" you will understand a little later today, several times from this rostrum, it has been said that the 2004 budget should be socially oriented. We have a lot of social issues. My colleagues said that pension reform required additional funding, but I would like to turn to the facts. The facts, sadly, speak of the opposite. Those who say that they need to help the Pension Fund, and the right to say pension insurance, de facto, and I want to present this claim to the Committee, are doing a few different things. This is a claim to the budget committee, this is a claim to the Cabinet of Ministers. The bottom line is this. In 2001-2002, all the money that had been paid to the Pension Fund and which it could provide for the increase of pensions had been paid to it. This year, 817 million were not added. So 817 million have been reduced to a base to increase pensions. Therefore, when we talk about next year's budget, we must clearly understand the social commitment, including the reimbursement of pension resources, the State budget must be fully implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u173	The word comes from the faction of the Socialist Party of Grzezhev, a national MP. Prepare Mihowich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u174	Anatoly Grázev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Dear Alexander Alexievich! From this rostrum, there has been repeated talk of the civil service that is being built in Ukraine. In my view, this is one of the most negative factors without which there can be no talking about building a democratic society. The system of power that is now in place has subjected itself, I stress, to its interests all institutions of state and other power. Contrary to the current Constitution, which declares that the people are the only source of authority, the system has placed itself on the people by thinking of itself as the owner of the power. Consequently, it has become the norm for the violation by various officials of Ukrainian laws and for absolute irresponsibility in the performance of their duties. Let me give you an example. You know how a public debate on political reform was organized. The President himself had to draw attention to the need to listen to the views of various political parties. I myself, in accordance with the legal law established by the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and on the basis of the President's statements, set out my attitude towards political reform. And as the leader of the Kiev Regional Socialist Organization, and as the People's MP of Ukraine, he sent it to the newspaper Kiev Justice. The result. So far, and it's been over a month, my vision of the problem is not only reflected on the newspaper pages, but there's still no answer. The editor-in-chief, some Chumak, knowing that Soccer is in opposition to power, is willing to go without breaking the law. Dear colleagues! I wouldn't even talk about it if it was just me. But there is a clear lack of respect for the supreme legislative body, the Ukrainian authorities. Not only do such officials compromise the very power they claim to serve, they undermine Ukraine's authority in general. I am addressing General Prosecutor Svetoslav Mikhailovich Piscun through the Supreme Council with a parliamentary request, although for example to others, let's put this grumpy official on the spot, he can't be the leader. The more the print organ. Second example concerning citizens. In the city of Uzin, Kiev, officials are willing to add 15 per cent of the amount of gas consumed and all say that the counters are wrong. And it's all in the eyes of the authorities, no action is taken. That's the final. Until the system of power that socialists have been talking about for more than five years has changed, nothing good should be expected of people. At the same time, we can and must change it. And as an example. Sunday's elections will be held in Montenegro. It comes from the opposition of Deputy Dmitri Ivanov. I would very much ask who can hear me to support our candidacy. And he will do what needs to be done in the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u175	The word is made by MP Mihovich, a faction of Communists. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u176	Ivan Mihovich, Ukrainian Company faction, Carpathian. Dear colleagues and voters! Each of us has to deal with a vast array of information every day. Without it, there is no legal, administrative, or scientific activity. But to be competent and effective, reliable sources, objective data, serious, impartial analysis are needed. Until recently, one such source was state statistics. Sadly, for a number of reasons, she has stopped performing her social functions. You don't have to go far for confirmation. We can illustrate this on the grain problem, which were the projections, what the results were published and what the actual data are today, and the situation where we are ahead of the food hazard. The situation is similar in other areas of the national economy and in the regional section. In Zakartat, for example, every day is heard and read from official sources of information, the unprecedented growth in industrial production, the development of entrepreneurship, the achievement, the paws, the agro-industrial complex, the social sphere, and so forth. It's ridiculous because real things remain the same. And the authorities prefer to keep their mouths shut. On the contrary, the situation in the area is getting worse. The highest, indeed, is the level in Ukraine -- unemployment, poverty, prices and tariffs, emigration, mortality, social diseases, etc. Under these conditions, led by a well-known 94th-year party, executive power in various ways requires the authorities to keep reasonable figures. The latter gradually turn into curved mirrors, become virtual, tend to reflect reality, or even distort it. For example, the name is that statistics show that the amount of gross added value to agriculture in the previous year exceeded 2 billion. That's right. In fact, the Carpathian villages are in ruins, and 70 percent of the food comes from other regions and countries. How are similar generalizations made? On the basis of so-called computational indicators, sample examinations of ambivalences, predictions of expected or even manipulation of a so-called value term. All of this is done even with a reference to the approximation of European standards. How much can such manipulation and counterfeiting be tolerated? Of course, it is not easy to root out this shipment! To begin with, I suggest we look into the truth in our own eyes and help everyone involved in information about social life. The other one. Desire in everyday activities for a systematic approach, for a dialectic reflection, and for an analysis of relevant processes regarding our functions and responsibilities. Third. Instruct the PICs to prepare drafts for the State Statistics Act in order to make sure that they reflect reality. Four. To ask competent scientists to propose modern, objective programs and methods for determining economic conditions, social well - being, political orientations, demographic trends, and so forth, and to develop scientific forecasts and recommendations for central authorities of various branches of government. And finally, taking into account all of this, to form a public opinion, a high political culture of citizens, a healthy, humanistic, moral-psychological environment in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u177	Thank you. Solomatin Yuri Petrovich, please. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, distinguished Alexandre Alexiyovich, distinguished radio listeners! I am joined by those who have greeted the media today with a professional holiday. But I want to say right now that I'm not addressing, I'm not congratulating those of them who stain the memory of the history of the Great Homeland War and the victorious nation. Ukraine's law on the perpetuation of victory in the Great Homeland War of 1941-45, which was approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine before the 55th Difference of the Great Victory, envisions a respectful attitude towards the history of the Great Homeland War. In article 2, the form of perpetuation of the Victory and the feat of the victorious people is about not allowing for falsification of the history of the Great Homeland War in scientific research, scientific and methodological literature and textbooks and media. This is in the law of Ukraine, which unfortunately is not written for everyone in our country. Thus, the veteran public is indignant over and over again to the national deputies of Ukraine with complaints about the unique facts of the brutal violation of the existing law, demanding that the authorities of the State take measures to halt and further prevent the distortion of the history of the Great Homeland War in general and the shameful campaign to discredit the name of the marcher of the great victory of Zhukov in particular. The essence of this disgraceful work was repeatedly highlighted in the press of Ukraine. The authorities of Ukraine have repeatedly officially shown their negative attitude toward the Scavengers of the history of the Great Homeland War in general and the name of the Great Victory Marshal in particular. See, for example, the publication. The archive of "Warning, False" in the "Government courier" on October 20, 1944. But the pucks are gone again and again. The last known facts are such. First, on May 8-14, 2000, in an article by the cultural scientist Vadim Skuratowski, the Partisan Glory Region, he once again defiantly celebrated the 56th anniversary of victory by reproducing the Hebelsian fiction of some sort of order by Zhukov and Barry. The other one. On June 22, 2001, the newspaper "The Evening Star" celebrated the 60th anniversary of the outbreak of the Great Homeland War, the publication of the pastquila, which belongs to the deputy of Kyivrada, like the colonel of the reserve of Victor Szczerbakov. Third. Ukraine’s national deputy, Lilia Grigorovich, on July 3, 2001, during the morning break, circulated the story again. And the last. On June 4, this year, in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ukrainian national deputy Leukko Lukyanenko once again spread this fiction in his brochure on World War II. That is why I appeal to you, Your Honor Alexander Alexiyovich, to entrust the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the Committee on Rules and Ethics of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider these cases and to bring those responsible for violating the law of legitimate victory in the Great Homeland War to proper responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u179	Thank you. Yuri Petrovich, we're done here. Out of the procedure, the national MP Slabenko from the non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u180	People's deputy Slabenko. I turned to Vitaly Anatoliyovich Hajduk, who gave his commission to Minister Horoshkovsky, the question concerned the gasification of the city of Love, more specifically the construction of the pipeline. The answer was not satisfying, and I wanted to devote today's performance to it, as it is to build on the kind of proposal that we are now being offered, at the expense of the national deputies they are distributing in the district, it's a pipeline to build, it's 26 million, that's 26 years to wait in the only city in Volina that's not gassed today. Please correct my request to the Deputy Prime Minister and have him come back and see him personally.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-06-m0.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you all. Thank you all for your work. I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate signature orders. Our next meeting is going to be 10 numbers - Government Day. Thank you.
