ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:22:49]] Registered -422 There are 422 national deputies registered. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. The honourable national deputies, in accordance with the decree we have adopted, have been amended to the Rules of Work. And on Wednesday we have 45 minutes to announce requests from MP groups and factions or statements from MP groups and factions. I ask the leaders of the MPs and factions to submit their applications. In the meantime, if there's no objection, I'll announce the questions we've been asked. Dear colleagues, today the birthday of the national deputies of Blochin Oleg Volodymyrovich, Koval Vijacheslav Stanislavovich and Mishura Valery Dmitrovic. Let's welcome them all, we wish them all success and well. On October 14, 2003, the Constitutional Court ruled in the constitutional case of 50 national deputies on the official interpretation of the provisions of part two of article 84, paragraph 34, of article 85, part one of article 86, article 91 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part two, third, fourth, of article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People’s Deputies. In accordance with this decision, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine decided that the position of part of the first article 86 of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the right of a Ukrainian national deputy to a session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to request the authorities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to the heads of other authorities and local authorities, as well as to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, irrespective of their subordination and forms of ownership and the corresponding positions of parts of the second, third, article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National Deputy Ukrainian State, should be understood to mean that the referral of the request of the National Deputy of Ukraine to which he addressed the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the designated bodies or officials should not be made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The motivational part of this decision states that a request from the Ukrainian National Deputy to the relevant body or official is a mandate that he exercises personally in article 86 of the Constitution of Ukraine of order, i.e. a session, a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, but without Parliament taking any decision. According to experts from the Supreme Council, the parliamentary inquiry is to be submitted in writing by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to be announced by the chairman of the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, in this decision, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine did not recognize the constitutional rule provided for in the first part of article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, under which the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to refer a parliamentary request to the relevant body or official, to whom it is addressed, by one fifth of its constitutional composition. In this situation, there is an urgent need to make appropriate changes to article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine. So, your honors, in the session room, we're only going to vote on sending requests to the President of Ukraine. To ask other central authorities of the executive branch, I'm just going to announce, then you're going to direct them by your signature. But I would ask the Regulatory Committee to deal with these issues in order to ensure that we have proper and effective control over the answer, both in time and in substance. Is there no objection? So then I'm announcing the questions that have come. Requests were received from Ukrainian national deputies: Vladimir Skomarowski to the President of Ukraine on the consequences of privatising the sale of government stock packages to six Ukrainian paper companies. I'm voting on support for the request. This is a request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:27:57]] For-141 The decision is not taken. Jury Solomatin to the President of Ukraine for delaying the central executive authorities to comply with President of Ukraine's decrees to improve the efficiency of state administration in the field of environmental protection and the use of natural resources. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:28:33]] For a hundred and Request supported. I'm voting on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:28:57]] For 158. The decision is not taken. Stepan Cloud to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for delay in referring to the court for a term suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Alexander Stoyan. Vladimir Stretovic and Stéphane Cloud to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Legal Policy, the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Science and Education on the illegal appointment of members of the High Council of Justice of Medvedczuk, Kiwalov, Andreiev and the refusal of them to take an oath by a member of the High Council of Justice in order to prevent the formation of an illegal composition of this constitutional body. John Mihowich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the exacerbation of the situation in connection with the sale of land on Zacarpatta. Anatolia Ástovajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the payment of the debt on salary to the workers of the Anakyi factory of large-cloud housing. Igor Yukhnovsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the deadlines for the approval of the interdisciplinary scientific and technical programme "Information, Language, Intelligence". Omelana Parubka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of food to the population of Ukraine for the production of its own poultry. Vasil Nadraga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of the debt owed to participants in the liquidation of the Chernobyl disaster for payment of food compensation, for the recovery of funds for the purchase of medicines. Eugene Zovtjak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the write-off received on a parliamentary request for the construction of a technical passenger station in the territory of the Kyiv region between Vishnev and the village of Sofiyovka, Borsztagovka, which contradicts the conclusions of the Ministry of Environment and violates the plan for the development of the city of Vishnev. Ivan Tomić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the socio-economic and legal basis of the construction of the "Department" shopping centre on the outskirts of the town of Hmelnick. Sergia Sasa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the identification and elimination of the reasons for the non-delegation within 11 months of the head of the Regional Regional Administration of Kirovograd. Vladimir Puzakov to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-payment by the State of the amounts owed to teachers of the schools of Kirovgrad for the years 1997-2002. Vladimir Skomarowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Prosecutor General of Ukraine, heads of the State Property Fund of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the laws of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 17 August 2002 on measures related to the satisfaction of the public needs of the printed product. Jurya Kostenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the Government’s decision to increase the pay for medical examination and to increase the costs associated with the professional activities of education, culture, health and social workers. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of Ukrainian citizens' rights in Italy. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures to prevent the closure of the Kiev optical-mechanical technology and the extension of the term of the contract with its director. Michael Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the gross violation of the current legislation by the head of the Kyiv District Consumer Association in issuing orders regarding the ownership of the consumer co-operation of the High Town Region. Anatolia Ástovajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the re-examination of the debt on the payroll of workers of the "Enakiyewetalurbund". Vladimir Yavorowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the misinformation of the public, the national MPs and for the silence of the real causes of mass disease in the unknown population of villages belonging to the territory of the Yavorov region during the training of the Italian Armed Forces on the ground. Georgia Manchulenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the 13th International Gutula Festival in the town of Visnik of the Cherniewec Region. Yuri Solomatin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the improvement of the financing of geological exploration work for the current and subsequent years. Julius Timoshenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation in the city of Privilla Luhansk. Vladimir Puzakova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to comply with Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine No. 898 of June 5, 2000 for the administration of education in the Kirovograd region. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Defence Council of Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures for the illegal alienation of Ukrainian maritime vessels, the state-owned shipping company Black Sea Shipping for the benefit of foreign offshore companies. The undersized amount of money that has been spent and not used in a purposeful way. Clarification of the number of vessels left in Ukraine. Checks on the financial and economic activities of steaming and purposeful use of its management of trust funds. Legality and the conclusion of an additional agreement to the collective agreement on the limitation of the constitutional rights of steaming workers, and in the event of a violation of the law, to bring the perpetrators to legal liability. Panels of National Deputies Babourin, Frost and others before the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 579-R of 25 September 2003 "On ensuring the implementation of article 72 of the Ukrainian State Budget 2003". John Stoyk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal discovery and activity of a new type of secondary school in the Crimea region of Ternopil, completely ignoring district education. Eugene Hoornik to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the payment of the government budget of Ukraine, before the Valley Department of Water Supply Management of the Ivano-Frankov region in prices and tariffs for 2002. Anatolia Kozlowski to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance for the Budgeting of the City of South Ukraine for 2004. Andrew Schleak to the office of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the reinvestigation of the abuse of the position of employees of the Department of Drug Control of the Galician District Department of Lviv. Dmitry Rudzikowski, under the responsibilities of the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the need for and speeding up criminal proceedings on the complaint of the Zausei couple by the prosecutor of the Krivrozi district. Peter Kuzmenka is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the legality of shutting down eight homes in Umani. Vladimir Onishuk is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for violating the leadership of the Open Shareholders Association Zaporijelektrovanje of Ukrainian legislation when selling the immovable property of Odessa specialized management number 404 to private property. Mikoli Rudzikowski to the executive responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the rightfulness of using the "TOYOTA" car as the city’s head."who owns a limited-liability company called Technova, which has an economic relationship with the city council. Eugene Jovtak, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of the Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the criminal activity of employees of the State Automobile Inspection and Ministry of Interior, aimed at breaking down the forum of the Democratic Forces of the Kyiv Region in Bala Church on October 18, 2003. Vasil Gavriluk is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to violate legislation in privatizing the Losinov substation of the subsidiary of the State Shareholder's Bread of Ukraine. Levka Lukyanenka, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the unlawful actions of Ukraine’s Deputy Minister of Defence, Danilczuk, who contain the signs of crime provided for in part two of article 365 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine in relation to subordinate officers of the day, along with the central military hospital of Lieutenant Colonel Litvink and Captain Kuzmuk. Alexander Masenka is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the inaction of the prosecutor’s authorities in investigating the facts of the death of Dihanovski. Boris Bespalogo to the office of the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding the Open Association of the Lenin Cows in Kiev. Valery Assadchev is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to investigate improperly the fraudulent activities of a limited-liability society called Vesta. Andrija School is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to determine the reasons for the delay in a criminal case against two employees of the Office of Crime Management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Lviv region. Alexander Baranowski, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the illegal lobbying of the introduction into a wide agricultural practice unexplored by scientific institutions of the so-called Mars One plant growth biostimulator. Jury Pavlenko, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Central Electoral Commission for the examination of violations of legislation during the election of the deputy of the Dnipropetrov District Council, who had a major impact on the results of the elections. Maria Markusch is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to bring responsibility to the leadership of a company with limited responsibility "Inter", "Inter-OPT" for deliberately evading the salaries of the crew of seasonal workers in the village of Kalina Zacarpatska district. Mikoli Tomenka, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, is the head of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine regarding the illegal arrest of property and the settlement accounts of the village newspaper of Moscow by the District Court of Kharkova. Groups of people’s deputies, Chechel, Polančić and the other only 4 deputies to the executive responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources for the provision of unreliable and incomplete information and formal treatment of the matter. Vladimir Petrenko is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the unsatisfying activity of officials of the Attorney General’s Office in overseeing the authorities of research and investigation. Eugene Hoornik, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of addressing the session of the Johno-Frankow District Council on the violation of a criminal case in 1947 in some villages in Johno-Frankow area of artificial famine. Jury Pavlenko to the Secretary-General of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, acting as Attorney-General of Ukraine on the appropriateness of the facts disseminated by the media on the link between the construction of a dam by the Russian Federation towards the Ukrainian island of Kos Tuzla and the Amiaco-led in the village of Volna near the Cape of the Horn of the Tamanian Peninsula of the Russian Federation and possible environmental threats to Ukraine in this regard. Alexander Granovski to the minister of justice of Ukraine for the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of Ukrainian citizens living in sites of preservation. Vassila Bartkov to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, on behalf of the Department of Internal Affairs of the Valley District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Ivano-Frankow area of road transport, which is equipped with technical means of communication. Romana Zvarič to the Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine regarding the legality of the administration of the Johno-Frankow District Authority. Philip Budzigan to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the Preyaslav-Hmělník Department of Justice of the Kyiv Region in the adoption of the decision to place money under arrest in the accounts of the national nuclear power utility Energoatem. Andrea Polita to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the groundless refusal to register the symbols of the All-Ukrainian Youth Organization. Boris Bespalogo to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for illegal actions by law enforcement officials of the Obolon District Office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding citizen Alexander Cebra. Vladimir Anishuk to the head of the Coordinating Committee on Combating Corruption and Organised Crime at the President of Ukraine for failure by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to respond to violations of the rights of the labour force while privatising the Open Shareholder Society of the Odessa Region. Jaroslav Suhogo to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine regarding the inadequacy of Ukraine's current legislation with regard to the exemption from the military service of generals and officers in positions that understated lower military ranks than they had. Olga Hinzburg to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine regarding the repayment of debts by the Kiev military leader John Bokhon. Vladimir Yavorowski to the President of the National Television Company of Ukraine for the provision of television to disprove conscious disinformation inspired by the Presidential Administration, which dates back to October 29, 2003, in the news broadcasts on the First National and Other Televisions of the alleged National Association of Ukrainian Writers and its breakup. Maria Markus to the head of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets regarding the verification of compliance with securities and stock market legislation in the Open Shareholders' Institute of Complex Transport Problems. Dmitry Sandler to the head of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine for an in-depth study of the specific issues of the work of the Master Court of the Ivano-Frankow region and the use of appropriate measures. Andrea Polita to the city’s crooked head for violating the rights of a business entity to acquire land under the construction of a residential trading complex in the city of Krivý Rig Dnipropetrovsk. Mikoli Katerinczuka to the Prosecutor of the Vinnitsk Region on the verification of the violations of Ukrainian legislation in the village of Blaziyivka in the Kozyatin district of Winnitsk. People's Deputies - Teren, Kirilczuk and others - to the President of the Kyivmiskbud Holding Company for lack of time to pay for the operation of housing. Anatoly of Orzhachowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the extraordinary situation that took place in the Hersonian area from 9 to 10 October 2003 and the need to compensate for the damage caused by the disaster. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the improper material and financial provision of the Radospańsk district hospital of the Skadov district of Herson. I'm done, my dear fellows. And we don't need to vote, I've informed you about that. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the performances. The factions of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the faction of the bloc of Yulia Timoshenko, convey the right to speak to Stretovich, i.e. three and three, and only three minutes, please. Prepare Gurvo from the People's Landing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national deputies, distinguished radio listeners, citizens of Ukraine! The events that took place in Donetsk on October 29-31 will long enter the new history of Ukraine as a disgraceful fact of democracy, particularly in the Donetsk region. On the night of October 29th and 30th, preparations began for the meeting of activists of the "Our Ukraine" bloc forum, which met on October 31st at 12 o'clock in the room of the Youth Palace, to convene its block. As early as October 29th, on the night of the 30th, the workers of the Donetsk Trolleybus Authority hung at the stretches held on the trailer, above the prospectus from the airport to the center of the city of the carriers with abuse over the small state coat of arms of Ukraine. Earlier this week, the main street of Donetsk by the company Plazma, Sorry, the main street of Donetsk by a plasma company is set up with a picture of the leader of the block "Our Ukraine" Victor Yushchenka, dressed in Nazi form, where instead of swastika was painted the small state coat of arms of Ukraine. A week earlier, all over the city was destroyed, about 400 pieces belonging to the other eighteen advertising users costing more than a thousand dollars each. At 14 o’clock 30 minutes on October 29, a report was received by the Ministry of Interior in the Donetsk region regarding the replacement of the Youth Youth Palace, where the meeting was scheduled to take place on October 31. On October 30, at 11 p.m., Pavlovenko and the Redwaterko national deputies arrived at the Palace of Young Youth to check how the property of the "Our Ukraine" block was stored before the convention and how work was done on the disposal of explosive devices. At the same time, the executive director of the palace, "The Youth", Batrakov, refuses to let them into the premises by calling for protection from the security structures on the ground. The Ukrainian national deputies were subjected to physical violence. Pauline is able to penetrate the interior of the building. The red woman is in this fight, and he's staying outside the house. During five hours, the criminal elements who had been in charge of this palace and had been involved in its protection, the Ukrainian national deputy Paulenko was illegally deprived of his will and kept in the palace of the young. After arriving at the Palace at 3 p.m., the young “Youngness” of the head of the Donetsk district council of Kolesnikov and the first deputy head of the Donetsk district administration of Jarty and the attempts of the national deputies of Ukraine of Kachura and Philenka to join them in the premises of the Palace of Youth, the guards of this institution of national deputies did not miss. Applying physical violence to them, inflicting numerous blows on the body and face, causing them physical pain. The agreement was reached that the next day, October 31, at 9 a.m., 45 minutes of the Palace would be released for the Assembly. I'll add to it. That at about the same time I had a conversation with Mr. Malishev, the First Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, who assured me that an agreement had been reached with the head of the Department of Internal Affairs of the Donetsk Region, Mr. Malishev, that the actual state of 9 - hour 45 minutes of the Palace of Youth would be ready to accept the delegates of the convention and no excesses were anticipated. On that same day, about 15 hours in an attempt by the head of the antiterrorist unit in Colonel Boychenk’s area to enter the Palace of Youths to carry out his official duties, since the National Deputy Pavlovenko addressed these criminal elements that protected the Palace, and his youth were also prevented from committing a criminal offence. At about 20 o'clock this evening, a group of 14 people's deputies are on their way to Donetsk, and a plane is flying out of Borispol, but on board is a report from a crew commander that Donetsk Airport is unable to accept an aircraft, motivated by the fact that Yusmash, the owner of the plane, owed 2,000 dollars to Donetsk Airport for ground service. Only the intervention of the Reddenka National MP, who made direct contact with the airport’s air traffic controllers, allowed us to land. Within 20 minutes of leaving the plane, there are no accidents, and all expect national deputies to go through the runway, thus violating flight safety rules. However, when the bus was connected to the dispatcher on the radio, the bus was delivered. And at the airport of the Ukrainian National Deputies, including myself, I can say it as a witness, I expected a well-heated crowd to meet him properly and to film him, to go to the camera and show how the National Deputies of "Our Ukraine" meet in Donetsk. At the same time, we testified that the official delegation hall had been ordered because the national deputies had arrived. But in a strange coincidence, the official delegation hall closed to our noses and the light was extinguished. We tried to find a way out of the area, and by chance, we left the airport and went to the hotel. The information provided by our fellow national deputies made it clear that the situation was tense. In doing so, we are witnessing how the city of Donetsk continues to be set up on boards. Under strange circumstances, they are appointed with the participation of police officers who protect this action and the employees of the DAI. On October 31, the public transportation of the city of Donetsk did not work, since, according to the direction of the first deputy of the Donetsk district government administration, Jarti and the pre - Dutch city chief Lukyanchenka, the buses were taken off to transport the participants of the so - called protest, causing material damage to the state, to individual citizens, and to the moral damage to the citizens who were unable to arrive on time. The so-called participants in the protest were forcibly, threatened with dismissal from their jobs, deductions from educational institutions, waiver of the license to engage in entrepreneurial activities and other illegal activities, and forced them to take action to discredit the political bloc "Our Ukraine". In the Committee on Organized Crime, there is evidence that those who work in the market have been officially announced that they have to get on the bus at 9 a.m. on Friday, arrive at the site of a so-called protest campaign, for which they will not be assembled by a market assembly during Saturday and Sunday. At eight o’clock we received a report that about six o’clock in 30 minutes, a guard was removed from the Young Youth Palace. And there's about 2,000 of them. young and middle - aged people forced from this city and neighboring Gorlovka, the town of Shakhtarsk, mostly students and students. The crowd was run by people who couldn't be identified as being civilianly dressed, in other words, in operating contraband, they appear as razorheads. The young men behind the crowd were constantly guided by a process that was built along all the streets where the leader of the "Our Ukraine" bloc was to pass. Free drinks were given to imported students and students, after which they were drunk and inexcusably wrapped around the palace and around it. Whoever wants to make sure of that, please go to the Criminal Ukraine website and you will see a documentary statement of what was going on in Donetsk. From myself, from the town of Shahtarsk to Donetsk, a group of thousands of people arrived on 30 buses and each of them received 50 grand. This is from shopkeepers who received 50 grand from the citizens of the town of Shakhtarska on the evening of the same day in a strange coincidence. And they started asking each other, "What, did the salary go out somewhere?".. "Oh, no," they say, "we went to Protest. And when they compared the series of envelopes, they turned out to be new ones, produced from the same package. This is another testimony to what was happening there. There was no police in the face of gross violations of public order, since according to our information, the chief of the district police ordered the employees not to interfere with these actions. I'm going to finish my speech because the rules won't allow me. The analysis of the committee on these actions shows that at least 16 articles of the Criminal Code have been violated in Donetsk, namely, abuse of State symbols; deliberate destruction, damage to property; obstruction of the activities of a national deputy; threats, violence against a public official; excess of authority or official activity; service negligence; illegal deprivation of liberty. Therefore, "Our Ukraine" requires the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to establish an inter-ministerial operational investigation team to respond adequately to the law on every fact of the offences that took place in Donetsk. And listen to the reports of the leaders from this parliamentary rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u3	The word from the People's Government MP is Gurov. Get ready for Shufrych.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u4	Vadim Gurov, Krivbass. Dear colleagues! I want to do something a little bit different, get away from the slogans and land on the case. You and I have adopted our country's budget on first reading. He's bad, obviously, but we had to take him in so we could start working with him. I think we did the right thing to you. But when I examined this budget with my colleagues, in industry, I saw that we were going slowly, but certainly not where we should be. Take a look at this for a minute. From what you'll see, article 66: for public enterprises, above 30 percent of the income tax, another 15 percent of the extra tax is called dividends. So this is one article. Second. We've canceled the accelerated depreciation. Because the law has been passed with you that new depreciation factors are being introduced in 2004. Now they've been moved to the next year. As a result, 1.7 billion net profits were made. Okay? It's okay. And if even depreciated, you could live with communism. And now the last blow that has come out of the walls of our Parliament from the Committee on Budgets. Look what we've done. Article 4.2. This proposal “Vysnovices and proposals by the Supreme Council Committee” - if earlier for the iron ore repayment unit, that is to say we paid 7 kopecks, now we will pay 2 bracelets. If you've been paid for a fraction of 5 copies before, now you're going to be 50 bracelets, and if you're going to have a flush limestone, then all the rules are increased by 10, 30 times. That's her.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u5	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u6	I don't touch the Communist faction and live in peace. That's why I want to. And I call myself "You." That's why I want to say one thing. Dear friends! If the last decision is implemented in particular and we make the final budget, we will have the following. Iron ore will increase, so that the steel complex will increase prices and hence with all the consequences. I therefore consider that when we adopt the budget on second reading, these comments must be taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u7	Nestor Schufric from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, to prepare Catherine Vaschuk. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u8	Thank you, Your Honor! Political statement by the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine on the occasion of the events in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 4 November 2003. [[united]] The Social Democratic Party of Ukraine is outraged by the fact that the work of the Supreme Council has been blocked by representatives of the "Our Ukraine" faction on November 4, 2003. [[united]] This faction has not succeeded in such brutal and irresponsible actions for the first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u9	Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u10	The ultimatums, provocations, and strong pressure are used by our Ukrainians in and outside Parliament as a method of political struggle. Blocking the work of the Supreme Council is particularly dangerous today, when in the order of the day vital issues of socio-economic nature, the threat to the 2004 State Budget to take urgent measures to stabilize the grain market, which has already led to a sharp rise in the price of bread in many regions of the state. This practice of the political struggle of "Our Ukraine" Social Democrats is seen as an attempt to destabilize the social, social and political situation in the country and in Parliament in particular, aimed at anti-constitutional power grabbing in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u11	Save your strength. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u12	The same forces that tried to take power through the Youth Order two and a half years ago, on March 9, 2001, in the last months, have been using almost the same methods to take control of the Supreme Council, to break up the lion's bicycle, the Donetsk airport and the government, the Hulliganic actions in Herson and repeatedly in Lviv during the public actions of their political opponents.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u13	Give me a chance to finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u14	Especially cynical in this situation are the complaints of "Our Ukraine" about the inhospitable meeting that met them in Donetsk. The provocative conduct of the Ukrainian MPs, who used parliamentary intactness, was admirably ignored by the law, and was strongly resisted in Donetsk. That's our grade. We consider it appropriate for the competent authorities to conduct a thorough investigation into the events in Lviv and Donetsk and to involve all lawbreakers, whether they have a mandate or not, to be responsible for leading the investigation to public awareness. Instead of drawing conclusions from their own practice, insults and abuse of their political opponents have repeatedly been demonstrated. I'm gonna need a minute. Over and over in Lviv and other western cities, the leaders of our country have demonstrated their narrow party desire for political revenge, the attitude of higher legislators and the interests of society and the state. SDPU(o) urges opposition representatives to block the session's work, to listen to the voice of reason and reason, to mention their responsibility to the electorate, to renounce this destructive practice. We urge the parliamentary majority not to be blackmailed by opposition, to show unity, determination and perseverance in restoring the normal work of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues! If I had made a mistake, they would have kept their mouths shut.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u15	Calm down, everyone. Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Get ready from the Communists, who's going to speak? Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! I have been authorized to contact you by the deputies of our faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Each of our national deputies is conscientiously fulfilling his duties today, both in the district and in the hall. Today, members of the faction have been developed and submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council at least sixty laws, other legislative acts. Nearly thirty of them are supported by you in this room, and they are already working. They are all designed to protect the interests of the Ukrainian people, especially agriculture, support for socially unprotected populations, and the economic and spiritual development of our nation. We always work constructively in the hall, in the committees, taking care of the authority of each national deputy and of the Supreme Council as a whole. Today, however, our faction has not registered and will not vote. We have not understood the policy of administrative tax pressure on leaders of different levels, members of the Agrarian Party in the regions, companies that have recently been involved. [[Flushing]] People's deputies were in charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u17	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u18	Members of our faction. For more than a year, we have solved the knots of empty accusations, undeserved attacks on our people. Recent events can lead to the deliberate bankruptcy of many profitable and efficient businesses today, the loss of tens of thousands of people’s jobs. The faction MPs want to understand why this is being done, who benefits from destabilizing the situation in our faction? I think it's obviously the MP majority and the Supreme Council as a whole. We ask for the support of our colleagues for most and all of the national deputies of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u19	Calm down, dear fellows. Well, let's demonstrate that we are civilized democratic people. Peter Simonenko of the Communist faction. He's the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine to prepare for Kafar. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! Respectable radio audiences! In view of our faction, the factions of the Communists, the events in Donetsk, is another disgraceful page in the modern history of Ukraine. [[Applause]] We categorically condemn everything that has happened in Donetsk and demand that the initiators of the provocation be held accountable in a more detailed manner, who and what purpose has pursued this provocation. It seems fair to me that our demands, the Communist factions, must be heard by the message, the information of the powerful ministers and, on the basis of this, to reflect on the general processes that have taken place in Ukraine over the past 12 years. In our view, communists have completed the process of partitioning Ukraine. It took place under general anti-communist hysteric slogans and appeals, first of all “communica na guilaku”, and provided a prerequisite for the division of Ukraine into the coastal and left-handed Ukraine on ideological grounds. When the future oligarchs and criminal oligarchs expected that political forces would break in under these slogans, we would be robbing at that time, just as preconditions had been created for the accumulation of the largest criminal capital. From the beating of the veterans of the Great Homeland War in the regions of Western Ukraine, when the law enforcement authorities did not carry out a common public task, they defended those who beat the holy saints, our honour and pride of the people of Ukraine of the Great Homeland War veterans, just as the future oligarchs waited for a convenient moment to move on to the second stage and spread Ukraine on the benches, breaking and subjugating not only the territories but only the economic regions. They have subjugated and established in every area their militiaman, their prosecutor, their security service and, of course, almost every minister is protected. Today, I call upon those political forces that have already suffered this particular blow to the world today to be the right political forces. Remember that this situation has evolved since 1991 through the falsification of ideology and social relations in society. When the party's central committee was seized, the Prime Minister's adviser, who at the time was Yushchenka, helped to protect those who seized the party's Central Committee. I am talking about this in order to warn all political forces. Today, there is a need to take a deep look at what is going on and give appropriate political assessments. We need to draw the right conclusion today. Not only the Minister, but he needs to be asked, he needs to be put on the rostrum, but we need to answer the question that the political system of society is the main one, and we need to immediately undertake a radical reform of the political system in society as a prerequisite for future progress. Conclusions. I'm talking to everyone. Those who wanted to create Ukrainian Piedmont created Sicily’s capital Palermo in Ukraine. Those in Donetsk who have received what has already been encountered by the criminal oligarch must remember that political and economic reforms have brought from the Ukrainian Ruro, Donbass has become Chicago. That is also the conclusion that we must draw.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u21	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u22	Proposal, Vladimir Mihajlovich, two proposals. First. We support the holding, and the need to do so, of a separate session where we can take a deep look at the role and place of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as branches, branches of an independent system of power in Ukraine. Secondly, to look at the events: Tuzla, Donetska, the exacerbation of the problem in the Supreme Council -- as a general trend towards the destruction of democracy today and the formation of dictatorship in the state. This is preparations for future presidential elections and, more faithfully, their elimination. And the third. To all political forces to draw conclusions. And the main thing is to realize that today, not only is there a single fact in Donbas or in other regions, but we've been through all of this when we've just destroyed the Communists in Western Ukraine, but we've come to a general conclusion. The state is at risk, and our danger is precisely what we must understand today: economic and political independence is a guarantee of the future development of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u23	Thank you. Kafarski, please. From the faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine. Prepared to be rich from the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, the faction of the People's Democratic Party believes that we should give the event in Donetsk an objective assessment. And our proposal about what should be created by a committee of deputies who will study these processes in depth remains valid. At the same time, those processes that are taking place in the Supreme Council make us wonder how we will work if we choose deputies in a proportional system. After all, the opposition will be intensified in Parliament. And we must probably produce a new constructive psychology of the political parties in Parliament. Look, over the years we've been given a relevant analytical note on the implementation of the Ukrainian language development package. For example, we do not have time to analyze it today. If you look at data today, we have that, for example, in education in 2001, 25 million was planned for the comprehensive development of Ukrainian language, but only 2.5 million grams were received for its implementation. I mean, 9.9 percent. This programme was reduced by 20 million in 2002. What we're talking about today is that there's an increasing network of Ukrainian schools in Ukraine, but at the same time we're seeing that public education institutions have been translated into Ukrainian language without taking into account the number of Ukrainians living in different regions. So let's take Donbas, in 2002-2003, to a school in the Donetsk district of 1,193 general education institutions, 220 was conducted in Ukrainian, which is 18.4 percent. With the total number of Ukrainians living in the Donetsk region, 56.9 percent. I'm not intensifying any nationalistic trends, we're supporting the faction, the language convention. We are in favour of further development of other languages. But look what we're doing in culture. Today, culture is hardly financed in an article about the development of Ukrainian. In 2003, the budget was set to issue 10 million dollars to the Ministry of Culture, and no such money has been received to date. At the same time, we see that the number of films in Ukraine is decreasing. Take, for example, a repertoire of TV movies. Ninety percent are made from foreign films that in most cases promote cruelty, pornography, violence, and we do not solve these things today. Deputies! I ask you to pay attention to the budget in the second reading of the comprehensive development and functioning of Ukrainian and other languages. And perhaps we should move on to constructive work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u25	Thank you, too. Raisa Bogatyrov from the faction of Ukraine. Prepare Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u26	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You know, now I remember Churchill's words when he said, "If politicians lack arguments, they use a voice," I will speak silently and speak Russian today because I have every right to speak it and I ask you to listen. Much is acceptable in the arsenal of means of political struggle and competition. It is not possible today to set a political goal for the partition of the people and the break-up of the country. It is unacceptable to use provocations as a political instrument today. To the great regret of our Ukraine's attempt to hold its congress in Donetsk, this goal was clearly read, and the method was total provocation. The daughter is a hospitable land. And when people with an open heart come in here, it's always pretty. When they come here with unfriendly intentions, the Donkey is always harsh. It is not a secret that today we know that our Ukraine's action was planned in Donetsk just as an exit to enemy status. “Our Ukraine” has not taken any steps to contact any political group or public movement in the Donetsk region. The policies of our Ukraine, which are proud of Europeanism, have not taken a single step towards correcting all European policies. The June Palace storm, not paid by airlines, all resembled a pre-planned provocation to attract the attention of the world's public. Experienced policies “Our Ukraine knew that they were going to a country where their movement was not popular today. So disrespectful and indivisible, it was totally unwarranted. Holuis are those who bow to a large rating and do not bow down those who, 10 years ago, did not fear to speak out against the Partnership and to express their mistrust to leaders who did not support the people. We must not make a reserve of totalitarianism out of Donetsk; we must respect the end of manly work and the high self - worth. My proposal is as follows. The “Regions of Ukraine” faction appeals to all political forces to sign a political moratorium on active pre-election actions today before the official start of the pre-election company. To hold the Supreme Council meetings where many aspects of our work could be discussed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u27	Valerius Suškević from the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the "Trudov Ukraine". Please prepare for Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u28	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. It has been almost two weeks since Ukraine’s State Budget for the following year was adopted in the next room. Unfortunately, some politicalization of our parliamentary life has prevented us from discussing in detail the Government's bill and the conclusions and proposals for the State Budget project prepared by the Committee on Budget Affairs. In this connection, on behalf of the factions of the political parties of industry and entrepreneurs and Labour Ukraine, I would like to remind you, my fellow Members, that the Ukrainian State Budget Act is the main document of our state and that due process and discussion is perhaps the most important of our duties. The way we work on this issue will depend on the life of the entire state next year. The faction and I personally are concerned about the eccentricity of the political situation in Parliament in connection with the threat of this situation to the budgetary process. Dear colleagues, before the next presidential election for nearly 360 days, there is a new budget year at the threshold. And the fact that the 2004 State Budget project was adopted without discussion doesn't set me up or my faction up. And I, as secretary of the Parliamentary Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, and as head of the most numerous All-U.S. Public Disability Organization of the National Assembly, regrettably find this situation very sad. In such a brilliant process, the adoption of the State Budget project has left quite a lot of dark social spots, and that also concerns all of us. Concerns about the preservation for the following year of all existing tax preferences, legally defined for the public organizations of disabled persons and their businesses where disabled persons work. The State Budget project, which was adopted on the first reading of the following year, preserved tax regimes for the payment of added-value taxes and taxation of income for disabled enterprises. At the same time, the aid for land payments remained under threat of suspension. This will in fact lead to the destruction of an existing network of social and cultural institutions, established by social organizations of people with disabilities, rehabilitation centers, sanatoriums, clubs, libraries. It will become a complete bankruptcy and closure of the vast majority of disabled enterprises. This approach contradicts the decision of the Supreme Council adopted in February on the basis of the Government's Day on the State of Security in Ukraine established by valid legislation on social, economic, legal and constitutional guarantees regarding disabled persons. At that time, many talked from the high parliamentary rostrum about the inviolability of supporting the disabled. But we have what we have. Disposal of land benefits for disabled persons is supported without discussion in the first reading. Without discussion, you know why, because we couldn't really discuss this government budget. And this was adopted in a year, like Europe, and we announced a year of disabled people. So let's be consistent, and let's stick to our decisions. That's weird. We demand that the government prepare a socially oriented budget, and the people's deputies themselves develop thoughtlessly, without discussion in the first reading, we adopt drafts that are antisocial. I want to stop at the October 23th Supreme Council bill on amending some of Ukraine’s laws on taxation in connection with the adoption of the State Budget. In fact, the proposed standards eliminate existing taxes on value added for enterprises of social organizations of persons with disabilities. In practice, it is once again a matter of eliminating businesses where disabled people work. As national deputies, we, along with some government officials, will destroy the disabled businesses with our own hands. Dear colleagues! I'm the last one. In recent times, as I have seen political action, as part of the national deputies of the budgetary process, and as the situation unfolds, I and the entire parliamentary faction are not left behind with great concern for the 2004 State Budget. I urge you all to consider the fate of the electorate. The need to adopt a balanced, socially oriented budget in these days is much more relevant to the state than what concerns future elections, which are also important, but they will be in a year's time. And our voters are waiting for our social decisions today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u29	Mikola Hapoczka from the National Choice MP group. I'm asking "European Choice," "Democratic Initiatives" to determine whether or not you're going to make speeches and tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u30	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Today, when I discuss a question that has arisen, unfortunately, so to speak, naturally according to the situation that exists today, I would like to say in a more different direction. I want to say that today Parliament has become a hostage of the political situation, I would like to turn to the electorate, to point out that today, as far as the political forces are imperfect and do not have such, greater power, that today the political relations are put into the parliamentary rostrum. Today, the parliamentary rostrum has become a hostage to the political breakup. And so today, when we're talking about the election law, I'd like to draw further attention to the interests of the people, the electorate are represented in the rostrum and the main product of the deputies is this product of legislation, the legislation that society needs today, should use the rostrum for this work. This is our job, for which we get a salary that we don't work for today! Today, two and a half months of parliament is not working, it is not issuing its main product - laws. Today, society needs this, and today, by blocking the rostrum, we seek our prominent and political interests. So I would like to propose once again that the rostrum, the Parliamentary Hall, should be used for the purpose that the Constitution provides to resolve issues for society, for the people we are fighting for, not for the two-and-a-half-month use of political issues today. Give one answer today, tomorrow's law that doesn't have to be, and so we don't solve the issues that are urgent to society. So I would like to call again, of course, this question should be considered, there is a question, but this is a political issue, and it should not be put into the room, and Parliament should not be held hostage by the political situation of various political groups. I believe and offer our colleagues to work on the laws, on what we need, for which we are to be accountable both to the state and to society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u31	Michael Dobkin from the Democratic Initiative Group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u32	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Our parliamentary group wishes to state that we are not trying to give legal assessment of what happened in Donetsk or in Kharkiv or other cities where perhaps one political force is not satisfied with the conduct of another political force. Let the experts give their legal assessment and we will listen to the experts and take our decision. I want to talk about a friend. I wish to speak of the inadmissibility of imposing my opinion by political blackmailing one political force against the other. I am referring to the inadmissibility of blocking the rostrum of the Supreme Council. Not only does this not lead to a constructive dialogue between the political forces. This leads to even greater confrontation and common positions are unlikely to be found. It seems to me that in this situation, when the work of the Supreme Council is threatened, when instead of enacting laws, we will find out our political relations, there is a compromise that all must agree on in principle. Our parliamentary group proposes to hold a joint meeting. That's what we said on the Conciliation Council. Joint meeting of the two committees headed by the representatives of the opposition. This is a committee led by Stretovic and a committee led by the People's Deputy Mojsik. Invite all representatives of the political forces in the Supreme Council there. Invite the media there. If necessary, invite the ministers of the respective ministries who, in the opinion of the opposition, must be responsible for what was or was not in Donetsk. And at this joint meeting of the two parliamentary committees, take a decision, which will then be put to the vote in the Supreme Council, and remove the tension, the antagonism towards each other present in this room, and allow our composition of the Supreme Council to be unlocked and to deal with what we all came here for by enacting laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u33	From "European Choice" is there going to be a performance? You don't? Then, honourable colleagues, speak from authorized leaders of MP groups and factions. One minute, a line. Melniczuk. Please, let's work. Who was yelling at the line? Soboled? All right, and Lechchenka. Three, that's it. Microphone, Mikhailo Melniczuk, please. Just a very short one, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u34	One minute. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine did not vote in favour of the budget in the first reading, because we do not see support there, first of all, peasants, we do not see support for the situation that has arisen with bread in Ukraine, bread costs every day; we do not see support in the budget for education, health, culture. And this is not the budget of the people of Ukraine at all. But I'm surprised that today those who voted in favour of this budget have one face in front of the people of Ukraine here, before the President, another in front of the people in the speeches. I ask you, honourable deputies of the majority, be careful when you press the buttons and vote, and when you speak what you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u35	Sobolev, faction of our Ukraine. Then Gurenko. Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u36	Pass the word to Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u37	Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u38	"Our Ukraine", Victor Yushchenka block, Vladimir Bondarenko. When we heard a statement today by the representative of the “Regions” faction, we were convinced once again that a well-known directive had been followed in Donetsk in full terms of the criminal initiative, which had come from the President's Administration to block the opposition. It became clear to us that, in principle, from the area they were transferred to the whole region and the instructions of the incense were higher than the law and law. And if Winnie-Pooh's head was stuffed with a sawdust, it seemed to some of the leaders of this action on the side of the Dozen clan, the head was filled with diapers. All moral and ethical principles were violated. Teachers gave money and vodka to their children. Foreign flags were used to set fire to political groups. Distressed people have transgressed their principles, gone to defend the unknown, and the SS symbols have been imposed on our Ukrainians. Your channels, dear friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u39	Thank you. Stanislaw Gurenko, please. Calm down. We're out of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u40	The Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Noise Nodes]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u41	Stanislaw Gurenko, please turn on the microphone. I say again, take your seats and he'll get the word, take your seats, calm down. Sit down and finish up there, I'll give you one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I want to join what the Socialist faction has been talking about here. I am very sorry that the MP, whom I respect not only I, the national one, today, have justified the budget voted by the majority of the President, and voted unknowably that, with the wording that is not included in any regulation, the anti-national budget, the anti-social budget, the anti-Ukrainian budget, today, they are trying to join other deputies in doing so. Dear colleagues! You made a huge mistake by supporting the budget in the first reading. And we don't have to look for partners today. Not we, as you say from the rostrum, but you, the Presidential majority, have adopted a budget that leads not only to the destruction of the economy, but to the further destruction of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u43	Vladimir Leschenko, microphone. I'm saying, sit down and stand down for another minute. Let's find an understanding. Otherwise there'll be nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u44	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I remind you that on October 23, the Supreme Council, in breach of procedure, adopted a bill of 4156, which was forged by the Committee on Finance and Banking, concerning the zero import rate of import duties and VAT on grain. I made the right statement. I made my amendments to the procedure in order to avoid a rise in the price of bread and bread - making products. I made 23 of the number of applications for this, you made an order to the secretariat to look into it, but there's no information about it. The more I know, the law has already been signed by the President. Please provide information on the investigation or study of this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u45	Yes, Bondarenko will sit down, he'll say it again. Please take your seat. I ask you to take your seat again, then you will have your word. Otherwise there will be no performance. Alexander Baranowski, please. I say again, if I were human, I'd give you my word, you don't need it. It doesn't matter. Calm down, you guys. Look at how many people you've been on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u46	Thank you. Vladimir Mikolaiovich! The faction of the Socialist Party. Alexander Baranowski. Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! What is said after the first reading of the budget has taken place. You're a respected majority in 231 votes, in fact, you've passed a provocative bill here in the first reading, which was submitted to you by Nicholas Azarov, First Vice-Prime Minister. You've reduced your income by more than 4 billion. By your decision, you cut back on local budgets, you put VAT on medicine. You put extra taxes into the village today, into the pension fund and all that. Today you are making your speeches, building them on the fact that someone, something has misvoed it and an evaluation of your actions, when you are voting without reading that, not by looking at what, but by listening to the official. So we have to ask ourselves this question why it happened, and we need the Supreme Council to correct and place all these issues during the second and third readings, so that it really is the Ukrainian budget, and not the individual officials' budget, so that we can use it manually to have a lead and money. We understand that elections and money are coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u47	Thank you. Microphone. Let's get to it. I say Bondarenko takes the seat, and you all sit down, he gets the word. Don't block, you won't do anything. All of it. There's a limit to compromise, let's be human. I'm saying, everything, calm down. I say, calm down, sit down and act. Sit down and take 30 seconds and take a minute. Yes, calm down. It's not a principle, it's a rule, it's order. Information from the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine on the implementation of the policy of privatizing strategically important industrial objects is under review. Please, Chechetov. This proposal comes from a professional committee: 10 minutes for information, to answer a question to a five-minute report, to a report from the Supreme Council Committee on Economic Policy to 5 minutes, from the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship to 5 minutes, from the Special Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council on Privatization to 5 minutes. Just 30 minutes. Is there no objection? Yes, speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u48	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. One of the initiators of today’s issue for consideration by the Supreme Council was the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council, Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov. Yesterday the previous question was discussed at a joint meeting of the Committee on Industrial Policy and the Supervisory Commission on Privatization. And they offered both the format and the structure of my performance. From the beginning. processes, especially.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-05-m0.u49	I say again, honourable national MPs, you don't show up, but what you're up against is what you're up against. What are you doing? I'm saying he'll take Bondarenko's seat. He'll just come out of place, or he won't, all of it. It won't. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed because of the impossibility of continuing work. At 3 p.m. parliamentary hearings. Keep blocking.
