ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:54]] Registered -390 390 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Jovtak Evgen Dmitrovic. Let's welcome him and wish him well. [[Applause]] In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations we have 30 minutes to announce requests, statements, messages and proposals by national MPs. I'd like the National MPs to sign up for statements, messages and suggestions, while I'm announcing the parliamentary requests that have come. Please give us a list of the names of the national MPs who signed up for the talk. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. People of Kirichenko to the President of Ukraine on the use of specialized powers of state importance. I'll bet you a vote in favour of the request. You need at least a third of the votes if you want to see the President. Please identify yourself. [[10:05:31]] For-123 The decision is not taken. Leukka Lukyanenka to the President of Ukraine on the unsatisfying status of the preparation of the aircraft depot for the Ukrainian Armed Forces in connection with the restructuring of the Kharkiv Institute of Air Force Kožeduba. I'll bet you a vote in favour of the request. [[10:06:03]] For a hundred and Request supported. I now put to the vote the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:06:25]] For-160. The decision is not taken. Paul Žebrovsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the gasification of the premises of the Hodorian Psycho-neurological boarding house of the Popilnian district of the Žitomir region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:55]] For-151 Decision taken. Group of Ukrainian National Deputies: Toločko, Remenjuk, Oleg Yukhnowski to the Cabinet of Ministers for the conduct of an audit of the financial and economic activities of the State Enterprise "Króčta". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:30.]] For-99 Decision taken. Alexander Masenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the lack of security by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine for the execution of court decisions in favour of the resident of the town of Gadjac Poltaw. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:00]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Valentina Seminyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on speeding up the transfer of functions for the administration and prevention of bankruptcy by the State Corporate Rights of the Equal Nitrogen Association. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:31]] For-125 Decision taken. Paul Žebrovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the Institute of Cardiovascular Surgery of the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:58]] For-163 Decision taken. Stanislava Phydenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for funding the work of the Volinian Rehabilitation Centre for Persons with Disabilities. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:28]] For-143 Decision taken. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the compensation of expenses incurred by agribusiness enterprises in the Hersonian Region for the construction of sociocultural objects in the village. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:57]] For-142 Decision taken. Stanislava Phydenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the dissatisfaction of the response to the request for speeding up the electrification of the Kiverzi Luck railway station. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:25]] For 106 Decision taken. Anatolia Grzegova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the treatment of patients at the National Centre of Radiation Medicine of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:51]] For-129 Decision taken. Istwana Haydash to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to provide funding for the production of Ukrainian passport forms. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:16]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Michael Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the purposeless use of budget funds by the leadership of the Chernobyl government. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:44]] For 139 Decision taken. Alexander Golub to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukraine’s Minister of Health, for the recognition of the city of Sosnovka in the Lviv region as a zone of ecological emergency and for the solution of problems associated with fluoride disease. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:16]] For-153 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of the head of the Dolin District State Administration of the Kirovograd Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:42]] For 132 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminalization of Zwenigrad Police Department employees for the murder of a young entrepreneur. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:10]] For-123 Decision taken. Edward Matthew and John Mihowich to the Attorney General of Ukraine for gross violations of the distribution of the forest fund and the export abroad of valuable timber and sawmills in the Zakarpatsky region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:40]] For 172 Decision taken. Victor Slava to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the settlement of the issue of compensation for the construction of social objects in the rural area of the Donetsk Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:09]] For 139 Decision taken. Vladislav Troshenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the renewal of the constitutional rights violated by Alexander Grabovski. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:35]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the cessation of the criminal activity of police and prosecutorial officers from the kidnapping of citizens' cars. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:06]] For 111 Decision taken. Sergija Ratushnjak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine for Road Traffic in the City of Uzhgrad, with the involvement of the confiscated police of the car led by the city's city head. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:39]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Sergey Shevchuk to the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the shortcomings in the resolution of child orphans in Ukraine and the enforcement of legislation on the adoption of children by foreign citizens. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:09]] For 175 Decision taken. Alexia Remenyuk and Petra Toloczka to the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the actions of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its subordinated firm, Krašta, aimed at narrowing the information space of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:41]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Minister of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine on renting land to veterans of war, labor, the armed forces of the city of Svetłovodska Kirovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:10]] For-141 Decision taken. Mary Markusz to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, Minister of Labour, Social Policy of Ukraine on the payment of health-related assistance to the Lanovajka mine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:43]] For-152. Decision taken. Boris Warmer to the head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine in connection with the failure of the State Tax Administration in the Volinsky area to fully respond to the parliamentary appeal for compensation for the added value tax. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:14]] For-96 Decision taken. Maria Markusch, head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Water Management, on the inclusion of the construction plan for 2004 in the construction of the dam and the coastal fortifications on the Terepla River of the Zakarpat region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:49]] For-126 Decision taken. Petra Toloczka and Alexia Remenyuka to the Chamber of Accounts of Ukraine on the level of accounting for taxes and relations with the State Budget of the State Enterprise Krašta. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:19]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Mikhaila Radionova to the Kiev city head for violations of the rights of a group of private enterprises in Kiev I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:45]] For 105 Decision taken. Paul Silent to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the purpose of eliminating the Ukrainian-speaking public education school in Donetsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:16]] For 124 Decision taken. Jury Kostenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in connection with his dissatisfaction with the response to the appeal regarding the seizure of the premises of the Institute of Democracy named Philip Orlika. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:44]] For 106 Decision taken. Paul Silent to the head of the Chamber of Auditors of Ukraine for the review of the use of the Ukrainian State Budget for the Development of Ukrainian Language. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:13]] For 113 Decision taken. Igor Shurma to the head of the High Council of Justice for civil infringements in non-compliance with procedural legislation in the work of the Zacarpathian judicial authorities. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:45]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Dear National Deputies! I was approached by a number of national deputies, asked to put to the vote questions that were not supported. If there's no objection, I'll do it. Is there no objection? People of Kirichenko to the President of Ukraine on the use of specialized powers of state importance. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:22:27]] For 114 The decision is not taken. Leukka Lukyanenka to the President of Ukraine on the unsatisfying status of the preparation of the aircraft depot for the Ukrainian Armed Forces in connection with the restructuring of the Kharkiv Institute of Air Force Kožeduba. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:22:57]] For-191 Decision taken. I am voting for the request of Leuk Lukyanka to the President of Ukraine. [[10:23:21]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Istwana Hydos to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to provide funding for the production of Ukrainian passport forms. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:47]] For 114 Decision taken. Vladislav Troshenko to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the renewal of the constitutional rights violated by Alexander Grabovski. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:15.]] For the 180. Decision taken. Sergija Ratushnjak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine for Road Traffic in the City of Uzhgrad, with the involvement of the confiscated police of the car led by the city's city head. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:46]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Alexia Remenyuk and Petra Toloczka to the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the actions of the State Commission and its subordinated firm, Krašta, aimed at narrowing the information space of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:16]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Petra Toloczka and Alexia Remenyuka to the Chamber of Accounts of Ukraine on the level of taking into account tax benefits and relations with the state budget of the state firm Krašta. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:45.]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine Stanislavovic into the membership of the parliamentary faction of the political parties of industrialists and entrepreneurs and "Tradov Ukraine". Yes, let's move on to the performances of the National Deputies. Please state the name of the national MPs who signed up for the performance. National Deputy Robber, faction of our Ukraine, please. Get ready for Malinowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! In recent times, all media outlets have had the subject of the Supreme Council's decision to send our battalion to Iraq to protect and exchange the consequences of the conflict in the Middle East. I want to remind you of the reasons for this decision. Remember, a year ago, there was a "male" scandal. relates to the fact that the President has arranged to supply our super-modern weapons against UN sanctions in Iraq. This fact was proved by expertise. That is why the political tension between Ukraine and the United States of America arose. Then the president of Ukraine, Drachnan Hosten, began to draw close to Russia as a matter of urgency. Russia’s announced year in Ukraine became essentially a year of dirty money during privatisation in Ukraine, a year of dirty political technology in Ukraine. For the purpose of conducting one project with the help of the Russian technology of the President in 2004. The president of Ukraine has an unprincipled policy regarding the Middle East. I would like to remind you that, in fact, such an odious leader as Yasser Arafat is the Cavalre of the Order of Jaroslav the Wise. One thing I wonder: Is there a wise position of Ukraine in these matters? And there is one problem: Why should the unscrupulousness of the President cover the lives and health of Ukrainian citizens serving in this chemical battalion? I want to say to the citizens that it is not possible to vote in favour of such a decree. Have the President take the gas himself, go to Iraq, and thus atone for at least some of the sins he has reigned during the Ukrainian presidency.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u3	Alexei Malinowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u4	Alexei Malinowski, Socialist faction, Cherkaschina Please pass the word to John Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u5	Ivan Boki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, yesterday in this room, a statement was made by our faction, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, regarding the price of bread. It is well - known that seven billion dollars were actually stolen from villages because of the lack of government - based bread - price policy. That's a terrible sum. Yesterday, we were required to put a question to the vote or to assign a profile committee to consider the matter or to set up a special commission of inquiry. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you have not put the matter to the vote, and our faction is protesting that we are dealing with such an important issue. But there was another point. By order of a group of deputies from Our Ukraine, the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. On March 6, the Supreme Council's draft decree to send a peacekeeping battalion of Ukraine to the area of fighting with Iraq was registered. The draft decree stipulated that the battalion commander would be appointed as the commander-in-chief of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Captain of the Kuchmu Leonid Danilovich Reserve. And the commander of the colonel or the captain, God knows him, the stock of Dmitri Vladimirovich Tobacco. Well, the captains of the mouth, there, according to Colonel Medvedchuk, generals Smirnov, Piscona, the Kravchenka penal company and so on. This project, I mean, has been registered, but no one in the room has distributed it, and as we know, the employees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were ordered to remove it from registration. Vladimir Mikhailovich, this has happened for the first time in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament, and I think it's the last time. No matter how you feel about it as Head of the Supreme Council of this right to be given. Read the Constitution carefully, read the Rules carefully: The Head of the Supreme Council is not authorized to abolish the legislative initiative of anyone. And in addition to everything else, Vladimir Mikhailovich, this project was supported by March 9 at numerous meetings in all cities and villages of Ukraine, he consolidated the nation. We would also be able to give our President, other high - ranking officials an excuse for their high patriotic duty to the Fatherland and to show that they are real heroes of Ukraine, Iraq or the United States, that is their business. Why do you not promote the consolidation of our nation, and why do you oppose it, and why do you not want to, none of these people have refused to become, as they say, “armed”. Here they are all, I think, ready to do a high patriotic duty and show our young boys how they will protect the interests of Ukraine, the United States, Iraq, Kuwait and so on. I think that's what will consolidate our entire session room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u7	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, prepare Loboda. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u8	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština This is the third time I've raised the issue of lawlessness from the Kyrovograd District and the Svetotzi District Department regarding the Subotci SP in the region of Kyrovograd. And today, when we're on the verge of spring-field work, we need to talk about this again. After all, it is simply impossible to work under the conditions of terror committed by the district and by the nobility of the district government. They're doing everything they can to break the farm, sell the property at the expense of debt at no cost. You know how to do that. But to put an investor on the side. These authorities are not concerned about the loss of property that has been done for many generations over the decades. In all of this history, the identity of Griever Fedir Ivanovich, deputy head of the Kirovograd government, plays a very visible negative role. His actions can be boldly qualified as corrupt. For example, in June 2002, when the Sobotzi SP was working with a full-scale industrial investor in Agrochem City, and all the fields were sown, and there was a normal agricultural process. During one week, the screwdriver was very often in the farm, gathering an expanded government meeting, offering another investor. And he warned that if he refused, there would be continued pressure on the farm from the tax office and the prosecutor's office. That's what happened. Secondly, according to his own instructions, the Saturday head does not register created property complexes, which has completely blocked the process of reforming the economy. In February and March of this year, the Retreater was still in the holding for five more times, holding meetings in the branches where he once again urged the investor, the same person as last summer with the same warnings of fiscal pressure if he refused. But in all these congregations, people clearly stated that they did not want to go under an investor and would protect their property with all possible and impossible means. In my opinion, Mr. Razlitz has lost the least care and is doing more personal work, forgetting about the state interests, which can be explained to him several times a week in the business of agriculture in the village of Red Jar of Kirovograd, which is somehow controlled by him and not by the district. That is why he does not have the true information on the agricultural sector. All the circumstances of the situation are well - known to the head of Mr. Strong’s district government. And it is very strange that he does not intervene or warn his colleague of the wrong actions that his high office determines. Do you not realize that you are personally throwing people away at the free, without any support, or at the very bottom of the available authorities? Because of such leaders, people lose confidence in power, the state, and the President. Therefore, I am asking you to include as a deputy request for the name of the Attorney General of the Ukraine of Piscona.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u9	Please, National Deputy Loboda, Communist faction. To prepare Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u10	May I have a word with Lechchenko, Mr. Volodymyr Alexiyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u11	Vladimir Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u12	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. Every day more and more power takes place in the spring, and the mother’s land is released from the melting snow. Not everywhere, though, it delights the peasant’s eye. Hundreds of thousands of acres [100 ha] of rollers, including fertile black earths, lie creaking against the sky with smudges of faded weeds. Soon they forget their youthful growth again. The farmer’s face has shimmered from the view of wild meadows and pastures, where hair or household food has long been scarce. The bread was always hard to give to a peasant and especially now. And the nature of this year's winter has given us trouble, because the blacks are made from the snow of a few million osminic hectors. Where do you get money for a dead person's transportation, how do you fix a worn-out technique, and if it's gold again, will it be gold that needs to be poured into the fuel tanks? Where do you get the dung? Can you buy it abroad? For what did the acquisition of minabrijav, the means of protection grow, and so forth? For whom and for what? Maybe those cable credits that everyone can't handle? Is it possible to make strong promises to the leadership of the state under the recent great agrarian council at the hands of the President of Ukraine? Or could it be for those front-line and future contracts -- oh, and they've already mocked the native Ukrainian language -- that the farmer's new officials are freaking out about. Such dismal thoughts are lurking in the heads of our agriculture, which forces the state to squander its self - survival into the market. And then there's the monopolistic middlemen running around the village like they're waiting for an easy prey. It's been so crazy, it's been overrun by a farmer that his fingers aren't enough. And this year, they hope on the human mountain by increasing price distortions as tightly as possible to put their pockets on. In short, there's trouble in the village. Where can you expect help from a farmer? One and the last hope for the state. Then I ask the president, the government, us, the people's deputies. Boys, do we have a little conscience, why do we give our land, our Fatherland, so lightly? And here's a proposition. We, the legislative authorities, have practically ensured the creation of a legislative field around the agricultural sector. A number of laws in Ukraine are valid today. These include loans, and payments, and seeds, and fertilizers, and techniques, and leasings, pricing, and taxes. If everything were to be done, most of the questions would have gone away. So let's not stand outside and watch the village die. The Supreme Council is obliged to apply its control function. The National Deputies of Ukraine Leschenko, Plutinski, Parubko and Cherniak introduced draft Supreme Council Decision No. 3254 on hearing at a session in April information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on ensuring the execution of Ukrainian legislation by owners in the preparation and organization of a rural spring-field work package. I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put to the vote my proposals for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of this matter in order to vote in favour of the ruling tomorrow. In summary, let us draw serious conclusions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u13	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction. Prepare Lukyanka. From where? Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u14	Thank you. Please give the floor to a colleague of the faction of Professor Mihovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u15	Ivan Mihovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, voters! I have to draw your attention to my fellow countrymen who consider themselves Russians. In recent times, they have been the object of intense sneaky pressure on the part of frontal and nationalistic structures. This is evidenced in particular by the 96 government plan for the solution, so - called, problems of the Russians, the spread of these about the only Galician land and the inclusion of the Carpathians, the fiction of the slave liberation army of the Russian people, the opposition to the free determination of their nationality in the recent census, and so on. But thousands of my countrymen dared to confirm the Russian identity, most of them continue to practice canonic Orthodoxy, and the fulfillment of their hopes is linked to the restoration of Russia to the Slavic world. That's why they don't stop in the area of politics that borders on ethnicism. Some days after the press, there was a well - known document on the so - called destructive potential of the Russian movement at Zakarpatta and appropriate conclusions and recommendations to the authorities of the State and the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. This paper tends to explain the history of our country, distorts the image of the indigenous population and its socio-political and religious actors, contains uninhibited interference in the most sensitive spheres of social life, which clearly contradicts the Constitution, the laws on political parties, the unification of citizens, freedom of conscience, and so on, as well as the international commitment of Ukraine. The document raised concerns about believers, scientists, national and cultural societies, the public at large, it gained international resonance, and its recommendations could destabilize the general situation abroad, cause negative external political consequences. Considering what has been taught, I consider it necessary. First. Ask the Security and Defence Council to identify the purpose and source of the document and to take action to prevent the occurrence of such materials in the future. The other one. The Human Rights Committee will consider the approval of the fourth session of the Zacarpathian District Council on Russian Nationality. Third. The Cabinet of Ministers, along with the district administration, have taken steps to address the causes of national imagery, the desire for ethical identification, centrifugal trends, and migratory moods. And the fourth. Instruct the Public Prosecutor's Office to verify attempts to break the traditional ethno-faith structure in the area. In conclusion, during the 1991 republican and district referendums, 92 percent of the Carpathians supported Ukraine’s independence, but they wanted to live in a peaceful, democratic, strong and just country today, to be equal, to know no suspicion, discrimination, oppression. The path to it, according to experience, is only through socialistic transformations. Anti - Russian provocations are immoral and illegal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u17	Levko Grigorovich Lukyanenko, next to Omelchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Head! Faction of Julia Timoshenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Leukko Lukyanenko Deputies! According to the project, in the second part of article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the order of deployment of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other states is laid down solely by the laws of Ukraine. According to the second article of the Ukrainian Act on the order of deployment of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other states, the Ukrainian Armed Forces can be sent to other States and reside in the territory of those States only temporarily on the basis of Ukraine's international treaties and in accordance with and under the conditions laid down in Ukraine's legislation. At the same time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not agreed on the obligation of any international treaty between Ukraine and the States parties to the conflict in the Persian Gulf regarding the conditions of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in its territory. In accordance with article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on the order of deployment of troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other states, an international agreement, which is given by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the deployment of troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other States, is not provided for by law. So, honourable deputies, the problem of Ukraine, I think, is that we have to be very careful about the conflict in the Persian Gulf. We see that Americans are actually trying to become an international gendarmerie and order around the world with their military forces. For them, the problem of democracy is not only the propaganda of democratic slogans, but the organization of an armed attack by powerful armed forces. Of course, in Iraq, there's obviously a dictatorship. But nevertheless, we find it totally unfair that one nation, powerful, will destroy the entire nation and the whole state on the sole ground that it does not like the order in another state. On the other hand, I would like to draw the attention of the honourable deputies to the fact that we have to act in this way with regard to the conflict around Iraq so as not to argue with the Arab world and the Muslim world. It is important that we maintain a good relationship with this part of the world in the same way. The other one. Ukraine as a nonblock state can only consider directing its Armed Forces after the decision of the United Nations Security Council. There is no such decision; no such decision has been made to Ukraine. So the orientation now in the bay that our President wants to do is contrary to the law, as I have already quoted, and is contrary to Ukrainian national interests. So I would like us to expressly forbid the President from sending our battalion there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u19	Gregory Omelchenko, next Flight.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u20	Gregory Omelchenko, Ulya Tymoshenko constituency, U.S.O. Honorable fellow national MPs, distinguished fellow countrymen! The world is at the brink of the possible start of World War III. You can appreciate, understand or not understand the state administrations of the United States, the United Kingdom and their leaders, and you can appreciate and understand whether or not Saddam Hussein's regime, from which the Kuchma regime has come to an end, but we need to think about one thing: if, by the personal ambitions of the President of Ukraine in these walls of the Supreme Council, we are going to make the entire state of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people hostage as a result of sending a special battalion of Ukrainian boys, then perhaps the Ukrainian people, and the world will never forgive us. Wars end sooner or later, and they heal for a very long time the moral and psychological and other wounds that remain in the souls of millions and millions of people. I understand very well Mr. Kuchma, who is doing everything he can to save himself from the ranks of defendants for crimes committed against the Ukrainian people, and he is willing not only to send a battalion, but perhaps the entire Ukrainian people to the Persian Gulf, so as not to sit on the bench of the defendants. Dear friends, if we vote tomorrow on this bill passed by the President of Ukraine, I would certainly like to add it to the paragraph of this law. That those national deputies who voted in favour of sending Ukrainian boys to Kuwait went on their own and did deviating work with them. To get there, members of the National Security and Defence Council are in line with their adult children. Because doing things like this is not acceptable at all. And there's more. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has already been virtually nothing. According to my information, there is already a forward team in Kuwait that is studying the location of our battalion's future location. Even the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not agree. I mean, no one's paying attention to Parliament anymore. The second question. It also touches on the great things that have happened in Ukraine. I am addressing the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on behalf of the commission of inquiry, which I am in charge of, for the third or fourth time. Let us listen in the first half of April to the information of the Attorney General of Ukraine about the ongoing investigation of the murder of journalist George Gongadze and other resonance cases. This is not a distraction, even though it has already been stated by the Attorney General in the course of the investigation of this criminal case and has been established by the commission of inquiry. And to the end. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, when you're considering a draft bill by the President of Ukraine concerning the shipment of our Ukrainian battalion, I've asked you what you're doing before pressing the pros button. For the benefit of one person and his deliverance from criminal responsibility, you can make a hostage of the entire nation and its Ukrainian people. Think before we vote for this antinational law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u21	Andrew Polit. Next Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u22	Thank you. Andrei Polit, Ukrainian Comparty faction, Leninski Komsomol. I ask you to pass the word to Alexander Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u23	Honourable deputies, said the Communist Party of Ukraine's Communist faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the U.S. President's ultimatum to the Republic of Iraq and the real threat of war. As we know, President George Bush of the United States addressed the American people on 17 March 2003 in fact announced the ultimatum of the Independent Republic of Iraq and the beginning of military action against it. Such actions grossly and cynically ignore the decisions of the UN Security Council and the summation of the multi-month work of the group of inspectors, demean the role of this authoritative global organization, violate international law. A precedent was created when a particular state and its satellites put themselves over the international community and entitled themselves to resolve international problems and issues of state power and self - determination. Such actions violate world order. Other armed conflicts, and the involvement of many nations, may cause this conflict to grow. The faction of Ukraine strongly condemns the aggressive intentions and actions of the U.S. Administration and calls on the United Nations and on the leadership of Ukraine to take all possible steps to prevent such developments. We are confident that human civilization has reached such a level of development when any problem is possible and must be solved exclusively in a peaceful way. This was a statement by the faction of the Communists of Ukraine. In addition, I wish to address Ukrainian citizens. I understand that you are now living in very difficult conditions, trying to survive when it would seem impossible to survive on these poor wages and pensions. Nevertheless, we must rid ourselves of these daily concerns and act as a united front now and be at peace. Otherwise, you can't tell when your heads are covered in nuclear ash. It's time to wake up. There's a war on the street. In this connection, the anti-military committee of Ukraine proposes today, at 5 p.m. in Majdan Independence, to hold an anti-war rally against the outbreak of war in the Middle East, against this conflict, which could erupt into World War III. In addition, today, at 5 p.m., we invite all peace-loving forces to Majdan Independence. Tomorrow at 9 a.m., a peak of the Supreme Council will be required not to send a U.S. chemical defense battalion to the bloodbath that the Middle East is about to unleash. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u24	Alexander Baranowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u25	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Baranowski The distinguished national MPs, the distinguished multi-tempered people of Ukraine, have recently raised great concern about how the President and the executive authorities have organized the so-called political reforms and changes to the Constitution, which President Leonid Kuchma has introduced. In the Gitomir region, such an industrial "Odobryams" is organized by the district administration. They started this work from the schools and primarily from high school, which, you know, is a good courier for one of the parliamentary factions. In colleges, students, the teaching staff, they collect by force, and there goes a total vote of approval. This is done in hospitals, in military areas. All the media are involved. Other ideas are not allowed, and other ideas are not even allowed to appear at the meetings. On the occasion that Ivan Sergiyovich Zhizh is present here, I ask you to take steps so that both MPs with a different opinion and our Ukrainians, who are different from the Presidential, can speak on this issue. And one more thing. I've been speaking out of this high hall not long ago and I've been asking, why do we have "criminality"? Who are the judges? During the days in the Gitomir region, the court was investigating the case of two tax police colonels who took bribes, stole alcohol with tanks, and were in fact the organizers of a criminal group. And today, to the surprise of all the inhabitants of the Court of Appeal, they are justifiable. Lifetime is failing. The chief officials of the Attorney General's Office, the tax police, have reportedly kept the matter under their control and have done everything to put it to rest. I address you, Your Honor, Yuri Fedorovich Kravchenko. These people are still serving as colonels today. Make the right conclusions. I appeal to the Supreme Court's head, where I have my information on an appeal. Get to the bottom of this! Give people the hope that the court may be independent, that our judgment may be impartial, but certainly just. In my opinion, there is a need to conduct an appropriate examination of the activities of the courts of Zitomirskina and especially the district court of appeal. Give people hope that the legislative branch of power in Ukraine is and that it will not be destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues! So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Draft law on the concept of national information policy. Reported to the head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine, Zhi Ivan Sergiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u27	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich! Dear Alexander Alexiyovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! It is suggested that you consider the draft National Information Policy Concept, which is particularly relevant in the context of the parliamentary hearings that have taken place in this room recently, which have shown that information, journalists, the public are waiting for this document to be adopted. In Ukraine, there is already a sufficiently developed legislation that regulates the information field. The other thing is that it is not always adequate and fully suited to the realities of life that are changing dynamically. Certain norms of earlier laws are ageing and need to be adjusted in order to comply with the requirements of the political, socio-economic, cultural development of the State, the norms and standards, which are very important, international law, the European Union and the Council of Europe. In order to contribute to the realization of the constitutional rights of citizens to freedom of expression and information activities on the one hand and to the dissemination of information and its protection in the interests of ensuring information security on the other, a draft of the concept has been developed. Therefore, the proposed concept should be considered as a result of the search for the optimal form of extremely complex information relations between citizens. society and the state as a kind of blueprint for a project to build a developed information society. Given the ambiguity and complexity of the issue, which has not been fully studied by any institution in the country, we have joined the working group in preparing the concept of better professionals and scientists from the National Institute of Strategic Research of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Institute of Journalism of the Kyiv National University of Taras Shevchenk, the Ukrainian Centre for Economic, Political Research of Alexander Razumkov. The concept was held twice on July 18 and October 9, 2002, in which representatives of many public institutions, associations, such as the Institute of Strategic Research, the National Association of Media Representatives, the general public, representatives of the Committee on Freedom of Word, Information, National Deputies, the Public Expert Council on Legislation and many other institutions participated. In fact, the work was conducted openly with the involvement of professionals from the general public. The concept is in agreement with the central authorities of the executive branch. Suggestions, additions to the concept are taken fully into account. The project was approved by the Government. And at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on freedom of speech and information, on March 5, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the concept be adopted in the first reading. The proposals made by the Committees of the Supreme Council and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration of the Supreme Council are generally supported, taken into account in the elaboration of the concept and preparation for consideration in the second reading. The concept is not of a declarative nature and is aimed at making practical recommendations in the development of the information sphere of Ukraine. Therefore, it will be clear to all subjects of the information relationship. Structurally, the concept is based on sections. 11 chapters, 40 articles, which focus on the components of the information sphere: information tools, new information technologies, publishing, museum, archival and library issues, cinematography, advertising, exhibition, science and education. A separate chapter is devoted to information security. When I save time, I will not dwell in detail on each chapter separately, focusing only on the main points. The concept is a kind of strategic plan for the development of the Ukrainian information sphere and determines the basic orientations, principles and principles of national information policy and mechanisms for its implementation. It aims to create conditions and build a developed information society in Ukraine as an organic segment of global information society, to ensure the development of information space, to modernize information infrastructure, information and telecommunications technologies, to effectively form and use national information resources, to prioritize information development. First of all, I will say that the information sector as a whole cannot view us, at least at this stage of the development of Ukraine as self-sufficient, that is, it is not a business in a narrow sense. In many ways, it needs serious public or private sponsorship support, so it is essential to adopt the concept of development, since the information sector is working not only to solve today’s problems but also to advance the country’s overall development. The concept is defined by the basic orientations of information policy. This is to ensure the constitutional rights of citizens to freedom of expression and activity in the information space of Ukraine; to prevent interference in the content and internal organization of information processes; to create a developed information infrastructure; to preserve and effectively use state and municipal property for enterprises and other objects that define objects of strategic importance; to create conditions for the development and protection of the rights of subjects of all forms of property to objects of national information space; to develop the information market and so on. Creating conditions for timely, quality and effective information provision for citizens, public authorities and local self-government, administrative, technical, legal protection of the country's information product, respect for the principles of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, integration of Ukraine into world space. The concept is defined by the principles of public policy on media. It aims to improve the legal field for the functioning of information tools, to ensure the free access of all political forces, including the non-censorship of the media, to protect both journalists and citizens, institutions and organisations from the abuse of media personnel, to ensure transparency of information activities, to prevent the abuse of the right to freedom of information, to organise national television broadcasters. So the concept, to my mind, this is a document today that actually optimizes the process of information relations will be a strategic plan for the development of the Ukrainian information sphere. I am convinced of the political importance of making this decision and of the practical need for this document, followed by the information code, all other legal relations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u28	Yes, questions, please sign in. Five minutes to ask. Let's take a look at the board. Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u29	Ivan Sergiyovich, if this concept you're talking about is introduced, how much of the information space in Ukraine will become Ukrainian-speaking is the first question. And the second question is, how much information space will Ukraine be protected from "darks" and other kinds of documents?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u30	I think that the information space is going to be Ukrainian as much as it will determine the legislation of Ukraine, because the concept is a draft, the laws will prescribe other mechanisms. And as for interference, they are not acceptable to any degree on any side, because this is contrary to the Constitution and the concept clearly defines European standards for the activity of information tools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u31	Mikola Nosenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u32	Mikola Nosenko, Communist faction. Dear John Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u33	Right, right.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u34	Of course, I agree with you that the National Information Policy Conception Act is necessary. But when there's a lot of complaints in the polls, the question is that, at present, transistors can't catch the moment that broadcasts the Supreme Council. You realize that radio communication is virtually out in the country today. He doesn't get his hands in the states. If you know this problem, what does it do? If not, please take steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u35	Thank you. We know this problem. In many regions, unfortunately, not only the Supreme Council, which is also unacceptable, but also the Ukrainian radio in general does not speak. And only recently did it turn on the brewery transmission center, and the transmitter started working. And the main reason is that out of the 16 million radio stations that were 10 years ago, only 5 million of them today. We need to work together to ensure that we are financially able to restore conductive speech. We will enforce the law in its entirety. I don't think there can be white spots in the information space of our country. Thank you for your questions and for responding to these problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u36	Valerius Samofovski, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u37	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please pass the word to Kalinchuku Vasil Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u38	Vasil Calinchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear Ivan Sergiyovich, indeed, the Ukrainian Law on National Information Policy should be adopted. And it's very good that in the concept project, the priorities of the state are to form a modern-day television information infrastructure. Expanding the network of cable and satellite television in regions with limited reception of signals in national channels. But I want to ask you this question. In a number of areas in the Odessa region, radio or television signals are not received at all. You know, I've been addressing you both, and I've been addressing the National Security Council on this. What you have to do to play radio and television channels there. In addition, 14 districts in the Odessa region alone suffered from natural disasters in 2000. There's no radio at all. What should we do? What information is there? Please give me an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u40	Thank you. The distribution system is designed in such a way that there are connections, the State Liaison Committee, which is responsible for the network, for the conductive language, and Resting has seriously fallen into the disaster zone, that is a fact. And today, we have been working together, we have formed a working group, together with the State Liaison Committee, led by Gonchar and I, a colleague, head of the committee. So that we can develop on the air, that it's important for Restlessness, where you can't pick up, let's say, one moment only live speech, to give people air and develop, to pick up live speech. This requires a certain amount of money to be invested, of course, and a recovery. I think that's the concept that builds these goals. We're both in budgets, and in other mechanisms, we're going to see this coming. Unfortunately, you are absolutely right about the fact that Restlessness has already suffered from radio talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u41	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u42	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear John Sergiyovich, I've known you for a long time as a balanced, responsible man. And that's what it's going to be like today when we're going to say it's not a heart attack, it's all balanced, it's all normal, although it's very short-lived when there's any kind of interruption and there's all kinds of advertising there, I call it. Imagine, at last, the Argentinian, Spanish, and other TV shows appeared like this, let's say, the Slavonic series, which everyone has experienced, watched, and suddenly everything goes out, well, it's probably advertising. When they see: President. It's probably war. Everyone jumped. When information is transformed into politics. That's what I'd like to know. Is it about this, as before, you remember when Stalin spoke, cows stopped torturing, and we should be warned somehow that there would be a message or something. Yeah? It's by the book, is it conceptually done or not? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u43	This concept is not yet accepted. It's going to be adopted, it's going to be legislation, it's obviously going to be done in some other key. It was an official message, and I think it's a serious weight, and channels can choose for themselves. The state channel went at its own time to say, no questions asked. But the channels are not state-owned, and they can choose the language and program that they produce. They were determined to do so. I don't think there's any big abuse or anything that's not, irresistible, let's say, or very complicated.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u44	Thank you, Ivan Sergiyovich, time is up. Please have a seat. For the report, we invite the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Michael Volodymyrovich Tomenka. Mikolo Volodymyrovich, if it's 5 minutes, it'll be very good, and if it's even less, it's even better.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! We are discussing a document that is the nature of the general principles that must have prevailed in the information field. You know this concept has been talked about for more than a year. And after a long discussion on the committee, we decided to act as follows. We have enough warnings about this document, warnings and terminology, and structural and meaningful warnings. But in order to translate this discussion into a practical plane, we propose to support the bill in the first reading and to translate the conversation into a more practical part in order to understand what the specific norm will be, what mechanism of implementation of a particular norm. The fact is that we understand very well that a document of a general nature does not, in principle, affect the actual situation in the information space. If you can say that, it's probably for us or for our grandchildren, because there's a real political, economic situation and most of the rules of this document, if we even accept it, it won't work. Today, you know very well that there are laws and there are practices, we're talking about allowing politicians and journalists to talk about what's going on in Ukraine and in Conception here. And the Attorney General is proposing, along with the heads of the district administrations, to introduce the code of "trap" in the Criminal Code for slandering politicians and journalists. The concept says that public speaking needs to be developed globally, and regional public broadcasters have been expelled from the Inter. And "Inter" says 24 hours. Now UT-2 is going to be thrown out of "1+1", because the owners want "1+1" to have 24 channels of speech. I mean, the bill doesn't have to do that in concept, but that's how it's going to be done, and no one's going to say anything about it. Just as we well understand what must be done here. By this concept, print every newspaper, whatever it says. But we do have examples of opposition newspapers not being published thinking that, let's say, there's overcrowded publications out there. I made the right request. For example, in the Dnipropetrov region, they refuse to print the newspaper “Face”, it is opposition and so on. I was officially told that the prints were loaded. I went the other way, went to the State Committee on Television and Radio, and I was told that the prints were loaded by 40 percent. Who will be responsible for this lie and for the fact that one is written in the document and another is done in practice? So we're talking about the ban on the monopolization of the media in Ukraine. For this reason, even in the Concept it's written, and there are laws. We have by law one natural person and one legal person cannot be the owner, co-owner of two radio organizations, even if they are regional. We have, you know, two families own three, three national channels directly or indirectly: Victor Pinchuck-ICTV, "New", the STB, and the Surkiss family and Victor Medvedchuk -- "1+1", "Inter" and "TET." Who? The Antimonopoly Committee has ever raised that question? Has the State Committee ever raised that question? You don't need concepts, you just have to follow the legislation that is. We are talking about the need to protect social morality, to protect spirituality, and to protect culture today. Who should protect? Vice Prime Minister of Humanitarian Policy, State Committee. And the vice-premier we have from humanitarian politics is in charge of Bulvar magazine, and he's in editorial college and he's choosing the biggest breast in Ukraine, so we're talking about that, which means we need a concept where we can still write how society and morality protect it. We're in the Supreme Council talking about banning the day-to-day anointing of movies with dirt, there, horrors and so on, and the State Committee is offering us, well, at the initiative of the President, the President's veto not to overcome, so I'm in a difficult situation. The document, in principle, is good, good things written there, but we're talking about what should be accepted, with the understanding that, unfortunately, no one in this country is going to do it. So let us, in caring for such bills, rather for the next generation and subsequent authority, do more in order to live up to the laws that we have adopted today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u46	Please have a question for the committee head. Please sign up with your respectable colleagues. Light up on the board. Five minutes to ask. Yes, the Bauer People's Deputy, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, the Hard Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u47	Dear Mikolo Vasilovich, how do you assess the existing state of the legal and regulatory base in the sphere of social relations? How is it that laws have been passed, and today we are only discussing concepts? In general, the concept of information policy is first developed and then laws are made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u48	Well, you're absolutely right. But we must correct the mistakes that our predecessors made. And what's more, in principle, there's no fundamental warnings here, because the position of the committee today is: we're actually on our way now to prepare new texts of all the basic information laws, because they were adopted between 1992 and 1994. So if, well, if he were to think strategically. If the concept now sets out the principles of information policy that we define today, then all the new versions of the television and radio bill that we're preparing, there's advertising, there's information that should fit the concept in life. And before that, of course, there was an inadequacy, because laws were passed, and there was no concept. It was a mistake, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u49	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u50	Eugene Gorenik. Please pass the word to a colleague of Kosovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u51	Mikhail Kosov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u52	Mikhailo Kosov. Our Ukraine faction, Reform and Order. Dear Mr. Mikolo, don't you think it's the very title of the law, because the concept, as you said, is kind of a legislative wish, so I'd say it's a system of good wishes and intentions, and the law is a direct action document. How, then, can a law that contains only certain wishes put forth the principles of direct action? And one more thing. We do know. Information policy is handled by the President's administration. There is even an appropriate department and people responsible for it. So who will be responsible for the implementation of this law if we adopt it?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u53	Thank you. I didn't quite put it right. So, of course, the concept is also a general strategy, general principles of information policy, and this is a list of key requirements that act as direct action standards. And in this concept, there are the right things to do about what we have to do with the laws. So there's a relationship between the norm of direct action and strategic things. As far as information space is concerned. Well. I hope, after we've been accepted, that's something the press doesn't write about, a new Presidential Decree on the President's Administration, and the President has sounded a decisive radical step towards shortening the powers of the President's Administration. You know that since the year 96, in the President's Order, the head of the Administration, the deputy heads of administration had the right to give direct instructions to the ministers, to the heads of the district administrations, to the heads of the central authorities, and to the heads of the district administrations. In a new edition of the President's decree, which he signed on March 6th, they have no such right. From this point of view, I understand that the President is bringing the President's administration as an advisory advisory body. And if that logic is true, I think all the orders coming from the President's administration to the local authorities, they're just not going to do it because there's a Cabinet of Ministers, there's a State Committee. These are the structures that the executive is responsible for information policy. By the way, the only thing I wanted to say is that I'm surprised that the President's decree is not being carried out in the debate on constitutional reform, because everyone is discussing and approving and no one is printing the document. So I think we should print the President's paper to discuss it, because everyone's already approved and no one's ever read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u54	Maria Marcus, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u55	Maria Marcus. I give my word to my colleague Mihovich Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u56	Ivan Mihovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u57	Thank you, Maria Andriyevna. Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, I wanted to ask you and Ivan Sergiyovich whether there is a question in the concept of satisfying the information needs of the people of the border regions. The thing is, as you know, they're political, secondly, technically less secure, for example, in Zakartat, a large part of the population isn't even covered by first television, and thirdly, the population often perceives the information of their ancestors, which in many cases is trendy, and that's why it's possible to predict a particular focus on meeting the needs of this population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u58	The situation, as indicated in the document, is that Ukraine must act in the form of international obligations and standards that relate to this problem, for example, in the form of a convention on cross-border speech, television, truth, we have not ratified it. But if the general logic of the relationship has to be built in this respect. But on the other hand, there must be both action and opposition. Of course, it is also necessary to operate in the licensing mode of these things. Because today, on the one hand, there's a mass of an unlicensed product that flows from one side to another, which is totally illegal. On the other hand, it is usually necessary to provide opportunities in the territory where there are representatives of national minorities associated with the neighbouring State so that they can obtain information. It's a delicate question. I think the concept is hard to solve. Obviously, it is solved by other legislative acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u59	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. 15 minutes to talk, right? Got it. Light up on the board. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. Get ready to pull the trigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u60	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! Of course, it is a very important question that we are considering. This is largely a matter of national security in Ukraine. If only this law had been implemented with the concept of national information policy. It's very serious. I could say in two words. A patriotic document, and it had to be implemented. But among other things, I would like to say that among the principles that guide public policy in the field of the media, which was discussed today, are the introduction of a media support mechanism, the provision of free access for citizens to information resources. I'd like to say another principle that wasn't called here. It's a fight for saving government funds. I'm looking at Governor's magazine. Few of you have seen this magazine’s deputies. And our electorate did not keep this seven - hundred - year - old magazine, which is difficult, where it is displayed, in this case, it is a colleague of St. Here the color covers show, as in the kindergarten, the inscription "The Head of President Medvedchuk's Administration represents the newly elected head of the Suman government." And here's the kids, the kids are represented by the governor, our colleague, who's supposed to protect the voters from our Ukrainian bloc. So what I'm going to ask is, is this national security? This spending of money in a pipe, these are the people's tears, how many letters could be released at these costs. Stop the governors. There is no governor, there is no Ukraine, there is no such word in the Constitution. Thank you. The question is that there is a significant increase in the number of television channels and interactive speech. Are the oligarchs interested? And how did you not say "Era" from First National suddenly become a private channel for a certain group of oligarchs? How? Tell me? Yeah, I'll tell you if you want. How they came to the office and to the National Council, where they even voted. Return everything to the people's property -- this is the key to the concept, to write it down, to return the stolen channels to the people. I wanted to say a lot of things, and I'm going to give the full text of the report to the stenographer because the rules are short-handed after the "barchat revolution." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u61	Oleg Tegnibok, faction of our Ukraine, prepare for Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, today we're talking about the concept of national information policy. But let's be honest, no national information policy in our country, we're not going to form until we build a Ukrainian national state. In fact, these two concepts are completely interrelated. We have to have a national government in Ukraine, indeed, that will introduce different national concepts, including national information policies. Because look at the latest developments in Europe, and we Ukrainians want to go to Europe, we have shown that virtually all European states are building national states. The national state must have its own national ideology. Do we have an ideology in Ukraine, a world view of our citizens? We don't. And if we do, it's the world view, the ideology of bribery, banditry, perversion, crime, and nothing else. Our average citizen, in turn, perceives this national national ideology through the media. So I'd like to get a little bit more detailed on this second chapter of "State Policy in the Field of Media." Pornography, crime, murder. Our people only watch because of TV and the press. Unfortunately, there are such things. Unfortunately, there is censorship not only political but also ethnic censorship. I'll give you the example of Lviv, society. The Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy is being grossly violated. On regional television, I recorded a program for 20 minutes and actually, criticizing the governor and urging people to attend a March rally, all of this program was cut out against the actual Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. The main task of our authority is to get the Ukrainian to look at the world with Ukrainian eyes. We don't have that, unfortunately. If they're showing some Ukrainian kind of programs, if they're showing Ukrainian shows or some Ukrainian folklore programs, it's so disgusting to look at these things, it's so inequitable, it's so unqualified, it's really reflected in the desire for, say, the perception of the national. Unfortunately, it is. In general, it's a good concept, of course. Only, you know, we don't miss the concept in Ukraine. We're still missing people who would be in a government that could put these concepts into practice. Look at this. In the same section, "State Policy in the Field of Media": Standardizing the activity and distribution of foreign media products in Ukraine second paragraph. Where are the Ukrainians? And where is our national? So as long as we don't form the Ukrainian National State, as long as the regional channels are run by individual parties, like the SDPU(o), apart from the structure, as we tax in the Lviv region, headed by Sergey Medvedczuk, we don't have any concept, and we don't have to fool ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u63	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Prepare Michael Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u64	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Kyiv region Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to ask this question. A concept for which person, for whom should he work? We're all talking about human rights, social justice. What human rights should this concept protect? What social justice is involved? According to political science, there is a concept of human rights conceptually from a civil point of view in two paradigms: Western paradigms and Eastern paradigms. From a class perspective, there are also two people: richer and poor, beggars. And we, if we look at the point where, from these points of view of which person's right to defend this concept, we're going to come to a conclusion, of course. I'm going to remind you that in the Western paradigm of today, first of all, human rights are protected by what's called a person who is above everything for which its own navel and what's below the navel is the worldview. He will do all he can to use the media if he owns some money and owns it in order to use it as a means of social engineering for our people’s historical consciousness. In order to use these media as weapons against their opponents, against their enemies, but above all against their own people, in order to enslave them, to turn them into a herd of atomized personalities, and for such a herd, of course, should be guided by a "national elite." And this self-proclaimed, self-involved elite at the expense of the grand, at the expense of the open and hidden sponsors, is now trying to benefit the rich, to enslave their own people, to crush them, and to lead them into the future that is now called a bright capitalist future and Euro-integration. From this point of view, this concept for our people, which is proposed, does not add anything. And I want to suggest that this concept defines such things. First. Founder. It is open - minded to be published and published every year. The publisher is the same. The budget is where money comes from and how it's used. A public report on the use of the budget by the media. And a clear distribution of information into facts and reasoning.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u65	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u66	And accordingly, if this is done, then we're going to make something a little bit better in this concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u67	Thank you. The word is given by Pavlovsky Mikhailo Antonovich, a faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u68	The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland, the Hmelnichchina. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable members of the government and journalists! People's deputies! I want to look at you and give you a generalization, because this concept claims to be a developed information society. This new type is permanent. And society is known to be a hierarchy of social order, starting with ecology, economic, political and top culture, and the media. So, your honor, if it's from this point of view of this law, it's the law of the banana republic. It's a law that reflects the interests of only criminal oligarchs, and there's no people around. What's more, it's like, you know, a sheik. He has everything: both computers and information, only the people have nothing or even a language. This is how everything is reflected in this law, so it can't be adopted in the first reading, there's one side reflected here, but it doesn't reflect at all what the developed countries have. In the age of information technology, I call it a figure, the United States has $700 billion in its budget. I drive the country, I won't call it, because there's no time. What do we have? Nothing! We all, it says here, have to buy -- modern technology, who even the developers, there's almost no representative of industrial politics. All concepts, all laws must be aimed at their own production and, therefore, at their own people! There he is, in production. And there's no word here. I tried inserting what I needed, look, it's all blue. So it has to be processed because it can't be done without its own production. What's it for then? It's really interesting then. There's no national interest at all. So it needs to be radically reworked. We really have to go to such a society, but because of our own production and not on the periphery of the world economy, but around the developed nations. That's why we need him, really. I see how we can do that in order for him to match the model of a developed country so that we can have it from there. To be sure, Ivan Sergiyovich, I'm talking to journalists here when there was a high-tech government day, and the government has put out twelve technologies that are not available in the world of analogs. I say, take it off, show me one. And they didn't show anything. Even the digital recorder was designed for you -- no. Give it to everyone else! And there was no order. More than that, I'll tell you. Today was about the President's address. I responded to one of the first and came to the conclusion that the President's proposal is a small step towards democracy one and three big steps back to dictatorship.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u69	Thank you. Igor Ostaš, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u70	Give me, like, the Righteous One, time on TV. Why are you giving it to me and not to me? And I'll tell the people, put your political scientists down, let them fight! Thank you for your attention. You can't read it again. You can't read it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u71	Igor Ostash, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u72	Igor Ostash, Our Ukraine, Reform and Order Party. Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to say that, really, it's not that important right now. What we're going to adopt and how we're going to implement our decisions and the laws of Ukraine. The main problem with our information space is that it's practically privatized by several oligarchic groups. And here, really, the Antimonopoly Committee has to say its word. We all know that virtually all space is controlled by the President's Administration, not by the committee run by Mr. Chiji. The whole point is that even our appearances, the national MPs on television, are clearly regulated by the darkness, where it is written that some of the questions should be addressed by such, such, and such deputies, and do not give to God others. Although I know very well that our journalists know who should be asked and who should be invited on the air. The next question, you know, is that as far as we're talking about our people, but he's really smart, and the results of the polls conducted by the Ukrainian Democratic Circle have shown that the lowest confidence rating in the state television channel UT-1. Ratings of mistrust, led by anti-registration journalists of Studio "1+1" Viacheslav Pichovsek, 16 percent mistrust, and Dmitri Jangirov, 9 percent mistrust, because they are people who are really politically involved and teach what people should think. It's very interesting to know that newspapers that the Kiev Telegraph and the Kiev Information are also the least widely distributed and purchased through "The Crucifixion" are 47 percent and 43 percent respectively, because, in fact, people don't want to read newspapers that are published by Ukrainian oligarchs. Next question, the question of Ukrainian. Unfortunately, I still don't understand why negotiations with the European Commission have been going on for five years now, so far there is no transmission of Euro News in Ukrainian, and this has been written in all of our negotiating documents. Why I'm turning on television today and watching a very interesting television channel called Eurosport-Ukraine in Russian. There's a retranslation of the Russian television channel under the Ukrainian sign, and "Ukraine" is written in Russian. I'm asking this question, I'd like it to sound out of my mouth, and the answer to it is from John Sergiyovich Chizh. And finally, the last question, the question of violence and pornography. We have been fighting over appropriate bills for a year now, and we cannot all agree together that our children should not finally look at terrible things, we are raising a zombie generation that will actually grow up to be violent and murderous. And I would ask, indeed, by all means, especially the State Committee to introduce and vote in favour of the only harmonized bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. As for the decision, we will be determined by the vote. What do you want, 30 seconds? Just a minute. Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio, Ivan Sergiyovich, 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I thank you very much for your concern and concern. I'd say that in 30 seconds. If we had nothing wrong in the information field, we might not have to consider concepts. But this document, I have to deny about bananaism, anything else, as prescribed by European information law. Maybe it's bananas? I don't know. But I think it's way ahead of what we have today. That is why he is still an expert on the Council of Europe. We have to accept a document that will form an ideologie of information. And you can't put everything in, you know, the people's deputies, in one narrow direction, let's say, the orientation of the document. I'm sure the Supreme Council will determine correctly and support it. Because it's very necessary for Ukraine, believe me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u75	Thank you. Vladimir Leschchenko, with procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u76	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich made proposals this morning, with statements made by nine national deputies. Unfortunately from the Presidium, we have not heard how it will respond to our specific proposals, including mine. Hennaday Andriyovich was the head of the House of Honor. So I'm asking you to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u77	I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments, appropriate letters, taking into account suggestions and observations, and the opinions expressed by the deputies. In order for us to send these letters to the performers at the end of the day, according to tradition. That's how it works.? Thank you. A draft law on the principles of State regulatory policy in the field of entrepreneurial activity is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin. 5 minutes on the report, 5 minutes on the answer, and the same goes for Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, second bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u78	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Solidarity." Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Ukrainian People. As early as June 4, 2002, I registered a bill on the principles of State regulatory policy in the area of entrepreneurship under heading 1161. This bill went to this room for a long time. Regrettably, after his registration, he received many acts in the state that damaged the enterprise. Then, contrary to the rules of procedure and in particular, Article 6.2. 13, I remind you of the proposals for a bill proposed in the first reading, whether an alternative bill is submitted by deputies and other persons who have the right to legislative initiative not later than 14 days after the Supreme Council's decision to include it in the agenda of the day session. Thus, two bills will be considered today. One will be considered, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I remind you with a violation as registered with a violation of the rules. But we've got some selective stuff going on in the secretariat. If other deputies register, they are required to have one rule, and for others they are required to have another rule. Now to the essence of the bill. The purpose of the bill is to define the legal principles for the implementation of state regulatory policy in the area of entrepreneurial activity, which aims at ensuring the effective impact of the State on economic and social processes, optimizing administrative and legal regulation of economic relations. The stated principles of state-run policy in the area of entrepreneurship are in line with the basic principles of national regulatory policy in the area of entrepreneurship, as set out today by Presidential Decree No. 89/2000 of 22 January 2000 on the introduction of a single national regulatory policy in the field of entrepreneurship. The legal provisions of this law are subject to relations arising from the exercise of executive powers, local self - government in the preparation of public discussion, agreement, publication, execution and investigation of the effectiveness of regulatory acts. Of course, if the president had signed the Law and Normative Acts Act, there might have been no need for the adoption of this law. I'd totally fall off. But unfortunately, that law is not adopted, and we need to get out of the fact that we need to prepare a framework bill to which this bill is essentially a case, and it appears. Today, relations in this area are regulated by the Presidential Decree of 3 February 1998 on the elimination of restrictions on entrepreneurial activity, from January 22, 1998 on the introduction of a single national regulatory policy, by Decree of 25 May 2000 on the issue of the National Committee on Regulatory Policy, Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 1310 of 1998 on the order of indictment by the central executive authorities, the heads of the national local administrations of the decisions of the National Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. Observance by the executive authorities and local authorities of the requirements of the law will reduce regulatory pressure on business entities by simplifying the procedures for state regulation of the economy and reducing the financial and other costs associated with it. By reducing the cost of entrepreneurship in the official economy, it will stimulate the legalization of the shadow sector of the economy and, as a result, the rise in the tax base. You know, I remind you that according to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Ukraine's Minister of Finance, there are 110 billion dollars in Ukraine's shadow turn. This law will also promote the full employment of the working population of the State and, accordingly, increase the volume of Ukraine’s domestic gross product. In the end, people will stop simply from working. This law provides for the authorization of citizens, their unification in the implementation of national regulatory policies, the information of the executive authorities on the implementation of measures taken to implement this policy. The report is over because there is very little time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u79	Yes, thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the reporter? Please sign up, five minutes. Please sign up. Light up on the board. National Deputy Kalinchuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u80	Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, the adoption of the project will certainly allow the legislative level to regulate the adoption of the implementing bodies the authorities and local self-governance of regulatory acts in the area of entrepreneurship and the status of the executive authority in the areas of regulatory policy and entrepreneurship. But I have a question for you. Doesn't it seem to you that the draft law does provide for a fairly significant administration of entrepreneurs? For example, administrative procedures for the preparation and implementation of regulatory acts include, in accordance with article 9, the preparation of draft regulatory acts. But who's making the case? Methodological, as noted here, recommendations on project justification and evaluation of the effectiveness of regulatory acts in the area of entrepreneurial activities are developed by a specially authorized body and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I emphasize, this is article 9. I mean, it's the ones that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u81	Ask questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u82	I want you to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u83	I thank you very much, Honorable People's Deputy Kalinchuk, for studying the bill thoroughly. I think you just don't quite understand what this is about. I'm just setting up and putting "roars" in the way of people who want to interfere with the enterprise. I mean, these are the requirements for them. They wanted to issue some regulatory act that affected entrepreneurs, then please agree to the order that we talked about, through an authorized body, through and., and it confirmed order in the Cabinet of Ministers, methodical recommendations. Do you understand? On the contrary, I protect every entrepreneur. I'm saying don't go! Only in that order, and in another order, do what is in the Constitution and in the law, that is, do not touch. And before they give it up in such a complicated way, it's complicated for them, it's complicated for bureaucrats, and for you, it protects you. So, in principle, you as a leader and a serious leader, you were, you ran the entire agricultural sector of the Odessa region, by the way, successfully, you didn't have any footnotes that are now in the Odessa region, why there is no bread and not just in the Odessa region. So that would protect you and all your businesses, so you would have to vote with two hands for my law, and yet in July when I asked for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u84	Gennady Udovenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u85	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, well, you have indeed prepared such an important bill, presented it beautifully, and I am even more proud of you and your contribution to the legislative work. Today we're being chased by so-called little businessmen, these are the people who are trading in our markets. There are, and I've already spoken at the Kabmin meeting last Saturday, and there are doctors of science, there are candidates of science, there are assistants. There's no one there. Since people have become unemployed, they have gone away, thank God that they went to the markets to trade rather than break up, they do not form any criminal groups fighting the state. Thank God! The administration, the police, what are they doing? They're finesing these petty businessmen, confiscating their goods, and actually destroying them. We should bow down to these people, doing good. Does your law provide for the protection of such people?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u86	Thank you very much, Gennady Josephovich, well, first of all, for my modest contribution to the legislative process. Second, at the evaluation of this bill. In fact, you're absolutely right, you're being persecuted, unfortunately, by these businessmen, who have thus been cut off from their jobs, because we're guilty, a state that we haven't created working conditions. I'll tell you more, yesterday I met some people, they called me taxis located in the Odessa port of goods coming to these markets. So if you have a roof sitting in the government or sitting in this room, a serious roof, then you're going to have 200 units per cubic metre of cargo, no matter what you bring there, and how much production there is going to be. The skin is going to be 600 dollars and so on. But this is foregone with bribes, with bribes. In fact, the state loses a lot. And then the police, like the police, cover it up there, as well as the prosecutors, and then they take the militias out of the small business. The fight goes by $100 of American from one container, such as in Odessa. Just so you know. And there's 14,000 of them. containers. 14,000. multiply by 100 million dollars a month. That's what you're talking about, if you put a pyramid like that, build a pyramid. So this law just forbids anyone from climbing, and people have to understand that we don't have to pay, and we have to eradicate the shadow economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u87	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u89	The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov as the author of the bill. Please. Up to five minutes, Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u90	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, is proposing a bill on the principles of national regulatory policy in the field of economic activity for your consideration. This is 1161-1. In 97-98, several presidential decrees and decrees were adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers, which partially led to the introduction of a single national regulatory policy in the area of entrepreneurship. The time has passed. The experience we have accumulated has shown the need to enact a system law on this issue. The bill is designed to introduce public decision-making, such principles of procedures which should ensure the efficiency, balance, transparency and predictability of the public authorities of local self-government, the regulation of economic processes, and the ability of economic operators to influence actively the process of preparing normative acts that they should implement. The main objectives of the bill are to achieve the effectiveness of stability, predictability and balance of the regulatory framework and its relevance for and responsibility, compliance with the outcome of the decisions taken. In addition to achieving the main objectives, the bill will contribute to enhancing the capacity of citizens, public organisations, local councils at all levels to influence the decision-making process that regulates economic activity, improve the entire system of current legislation by reducing the number of legal acts, eliminating duplications and contradictions between them through the envisaged procedure for their regular review in the system and system codification. The adoption of this law will allow for the creation of a legislative basis for the implementation of a single, national regulatory policy. In doing so, the law will make it impossible to make quick, one - person, and therefore unwarranted decisions. Well, for example, if we rent ports, we should first discuss carefully whether this can be done at all. The management of the country’s economy in manual management, the hidden change in the rules of the game for the benefit of individual market entities. The main mechanisms of the internal system of balancing interests and periodic reporting on the results of activities, in accordance with the requirements laid down in the bill at the level of the Supreme Council, executive authorities, local self-government, their content is to carry out procedurally defined functions to analyse the content of the proposed decisions and considerations, in accordance with the principles of the State regulatory policy set out in Article 4 of this Bill, which are required to report on the conclusions of the plenary meetings of the relevant councils or the competent authorities to decide on the defined regulatory acts. I've been talking for a long time. But please tell me how much time you can rent under the house according to current legislation. Why did some local council members suddenly want to see the rent? This must be such a profitable business. Does it fit the existing legislation? The other one. Monitoring compliance with all procedural requirements for the preparation and adoption of regulatory acts. As outlined in the 5th article. Getting a data analysis on the effectiveness of regulatory acts, this is periodically done. Application for mandatory review and codification of valid regulatory acts if there are reasonable comments on their effectiveness. What I want to pay attention to. This bill and I worked in Hmielnicki and very active work was in Kharkiv. I am deeply grateful to the officials of the Kharkiv District Administration who have thoroughly analyzed the situation. I can tell you that all the remarks that have been have given us the opportunity to make some changes to our committee's draft regulation right now. Here in the Supreme Council, we've been looking at this issue. Dear colleagues, the Institute of Law Problems, when both of the bills you are given worked out, it was our bill that supported it because it was more technological. And to the end. We are deeply grateful to the author of the previous bill for his multisectoral activities in the legislative process. And we're very happy that he's been very happy with his presence in the enterprise sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u91	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I have an offer to ask you a question for five minutes, then we'll take a break. Yeah? Our job. Please sign up for the question if there is. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Take a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u92	No, no. Now we're going after the questions, and then we're going to take a break. Valery Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u93	Thank you. Yuri Ivanovich, I've listened to you, so it's worth just taking the law right now and not even discussing it, so he's fine. But it's not that good in reality. I just wanted to stop for two moments. One moment is connected with the so - called, one window, so I understand what is in this law. This has to do with the registration of businesses. I want to tell you that we've had this experience in the area, the experience of one window. I don't want to say that it's absolutely negative, and there's some positive thing about it. But it doesn't always work very well because there are problems, and it's going to have to be a good procedure. Because the entrepreneur makes all the same papers, the official starts to form them, even at the price he paid, and other officials put so many obstacles that he's already running back to that entrepreneur, they say, "Go yourself through that window, because there's nothing I can do about it." That's the first question. I'd like you to tell me your point of view that we need to do a very careful procedure. And second moment. You gave an example of this from the lease. I'm sorry, I took some time. As long as officials are renting directly, privately owned, selling themselves directly or their organs, we'll have rent changes all the time. And it's got to be this way, the facility's been released, the authority's got to put it on the stock market, write that it's a lease, the entrepreneur's got it on the stock market. Is that what the law says? I'd like you to answer that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u94	Thank you, colleague. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the draft decree we propose to exclude some articles: article 15th, article 16th, and part of article 19. This is how we respond to the observation of the Scientific and Scientific Administration of the Supreme Council. The other one. Regarding one window and procedure. I fully agree with you on the need to write procedures. In the second reading, we will continue to do so. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that now in Ukraine, in Frankivsk, Hersonsk, in some other areas, this experiment is being conducted in the Moscow area of Kiev 10 years ago. We're going to build up enough experience, we're going to have open hearings here in the Supreme Council on May 14th, and then we're going to go out with two bill of registration and this one. That's how we work. And as for rent, you know, you have to write it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u95	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u96	161 constituency, Communist faction, Hinzburg. Dear Yuri Ivanovich, I understand that we do not yet have laws to regulate these matters. And I have two questions like that. First. How different your law is from the law we've just heard, Carmazina. And the second question. Is your law compatible with yesterday’s lease offer? I don't agree. What do they have in common? In what way might this be linked? Because the rental company and yesterday’s law spoke of the fact that businesses can be given with land. Rent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u97	Thank you, Olga Petrovna. As far as the law is concerned. When we discussed this issue on the committee last summer, unfortunately, our bill committee, the previous one, did not vote in favour. And it was sent, it was decided to create a working group to make technology law. That is, to be written out with the current requirements of work and the real technology of the work of the executive. That's what makes him different. As far as renting is concerned, I can say that. This is not the purpose of a particular lease in this bill. This bill states how to make the will of an individual official not the norm of direct action. To keep him under social control. So there's a procedure where he can't do anything wrong. He can't submit a bill to the British government until he agrees with a whole range of scientific and scientific organizations, public organizations and so on. There's no one under the table doing politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u98	Basil Nadrag. People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u99	Dear Yuri Ivanovich! How do you assess the situation at a time like this? Today we are talking about a law that will give a certain area for entrepreneurship to develop. Less will come from the State, more will work for the public - everything is clear, the focus is on entrepreneurship. But there will be no distortion that allows us to develop entrepreneurship, for example, we will miss or step back on the same social protection of employees from the same entrepreneur. And then when it comes to insurance medicine, social funds, everything else, this authority is going to talk about, sorry, it's preventing entrepreneurship from developing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u100	Dear colleague, a good expression of the “business development platform”. Indeed, this law is designed to enable entrepreneurs to breathe a little. I wouldn't overestimate, let's say, the talents of our bureaucracy, which will surely invent all kinds of things to circumvent this even systemic law. That's the first question. Second question. I would very much like to see that, at this stage in transition, trade unions and entrepreneurs do not yet confront employers. We've got a confrontation ahead of us, so five or six years from now. I therefore invite you to the first debate on “Social Affairs and Entrepreneurship, Enterprise Development” on Friday at the 15th floor below. We want to see here at one table as a peaceful coexistence under the current conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u101	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we will continue to consider the matter after the break. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u102	We're continuing the meeting. I invite the head of the committee’s subcommittee on industrial policy and entrepreneurship, Dubický Wiácheslav Volodymirovich, to the rostrum. Please, Viacheslav Volodymyrovich, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u103	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You have two alternative bills that determine the principles of national regulatory policy. The first draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Entrepreneurship, introduced by the Ukrainian National MP Karmazin, and the second draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Kravchenk and others. I would like to stress the fundamental differences between these bills. First, according to the names of the drafts, the first of these sets out the principles and procedures and the introduction of only those regulatory acts that regulate the activities of business entities, whereas the second law deals with the broader sphere, namely regulatory acts in the field of economic activity. This will contribute to the spread of the same principles and approaches as business regulation, since economic activity involves both entrepreneurship and regulation of the activities of those not subject to entrepreneurial activity. It's different. Bill 1161 regulates the activities of the central and local executive and local authorities. Beyond the scope of this bill are the procedures for preparing and implementing regulatory acts in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Bank of Ukraine, and other State bodies specifically mentioned in the Constitution of Ukraine. Nor is there a clear definition of the role of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the implementation of national regulatory policy. Bill 1161-1 eliminated these imbalances. The bill also places considerable emphasis not only on the requirements for drafting regulatory acts, which includes the preparation of regulatory impact analysis, public discussion, and even the monitoring of the effectiveness of the regulatory acts already adopted. In particular, clearly defined periods of such tracking, its order, as well as the discovery of the results of acts for the public. This procedure will allow authorities to correct their actions and correct errors, replace ineffective and inappropriate regulatory requirements. The bill seeks to establish a real, not declarative, responsibility for breaking the order of regulatory activity, namely disciplinary responsibility. The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, at its meeting, reviewed the bill and proposed the adoption of Bill No. 1161-1 by the national deputies Yehanur, Kravchenk and others. A bill supported by the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment. The bill was discussed in Kharkiv, Hmielnicki, and Kyiv areas and received support. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded a number of important observations under articles 15, 16 and 19 above. In view of the above, the committee in the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to adopt the bill on the basis that the articles are excluded. Other comments and suggestions may be taken into account in the finalization of the bill for second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u104	Thank you, Viachelav Volodymyrovich. Any questions, Your Honor? Please sign in, five minutes. Light up on the board. Vladimir Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u105	Thank you. My dear reporter, I find your statement that the bill is alternative. To some extent, they complement each other, one slightly wider, the other narrower, and their ideology about the same. Therefore, it may be possible to reconcile a little, use something to keep them from banging their foreheads, and so that the voices can be stretched out so that one of them can pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u106	I agree with your question, thank you for asking. I think that, in fact, the bill is both the first and the second, they're about the same, and we need to put everything together and adopt one bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u107	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u108	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Viacheslave Volodymyrovich, I think my previous colleague was right when he spoke of what there is much in common with these bills, but at the same time, I think there are moments that differ from the law. I'd like your comment on how much your bill, let's say, provides for the protection of entrepreneurs from the influence of law enforcement structures, from the influence of government. It simplifies it, but at the same time it doesn't dissolve these, let's say, so that we don't lose control of this area at all. So what you're going to say is, dosage, administration and enterprise freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u109	Well, the bill discussed these issues. We have discussed and, indeed, is the intervention of organs, a little bit more influence by some. And we're also here foreshadowing all of these points, and just as part of the oversight committee, we're also involving subjects of entrepreneurial activity who might be able to make their comments and take their own conclusions on a particular issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u110	Mikhail Pavlovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u111	Thank you. Viacheslav Volodymyrovich, I want to help you with the Rules. You said that the bill that you recommend to accept as a basis, there are several articles, you don't need them, it needs to be deleted. And that means a change in structure. On the other hand, you agreed that some of the positions and the Karmazin bill should be taken into account. So I'm very, very much in the Rules a normal strong standard. We're sending both bills for re-reading, and we're giving this commission to the committee, and it's not going anywhere. On the basis of these two bills, draft one. And then we can take it very quickly by the constitutional majority. So I'd like you to agree. It is most appropriate not to lose anything rational and speed it up for a second reading. So he can stay in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u112	Michael Antonovich, the thing is, we're not breaking it, I didn't say we were removing anything from the Rules. I said that some of the moments are just there, they're not used. Whether to send for the first reading or to make appropriate additions in the second reading will be decided by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u113	Thank you, Viacheslav Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. I ask the head of the committee, the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Alexander Kugel. Please take your view of the proposed bills. The attitude of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u114	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking Yuri Karmazin, Yuri Yehanurov and Deputy Kravchenk for having drawn up these laws. They're very important. I'm going to say a very short line to make it clear to Mr. Nicolanek, which is the basic ideology of these laws. These are regulatory policies, that is, entrepreneurship should be regulated by the State. But the regulation procedure must be transparent. And making decisions does not depend on who is in the government today, who is the deputy, to be the culture of decision-making. First. This is an economic justification for making a decision, whether it is convenient for the state and people living in that state. And secondly, it's a test of the effectiveness of decision-making. An example of an irregular decision was when the whole nation was forced to buy shiny stickers on the car. Two of our former Ukrainians from America, the whole state glued up, they made money and left, and we're going with them. If a procedure was introduced, it was shown to be an ineffective decision and unacceptable. This policy is being implemented in the government today, but by the President's decree. I can tell you 38 percent of executive decisions stop every year. If there is law, the procedure will work even more clearly. It introduces a culture of relations with control authorities, because all orders, orders, letters from any executive body should be based on transparency and legislation. And the law on how entrepreneurs and control bodies are treated next week will consider a law that will enable them to settle the issue. I ask you to accept the law, not return to your first reading. And together, two laws will be taken into account for the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u115	Let's move on to the discussion. We've got 15 minutes to talk. People's deputies have signed up, please put a list of names on the board. Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, get ready for the Nestor Shufritch. There's no rabbit. So Shufrich Nestor, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, prepare Konovaluku. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u116	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, Regulatory policy issues are extremely important for creating an effective economic market in Ukraine. Overinvolvement by the State in economic activities has created extremely unfavourable conditions for business development in Ukraine. Without effective regulatory policies, it is not possible to solve key problems such as childishing the economy, creating an attractive investment climate, and the normal development of small and medium-sized businesses. As we know, the situation of regulatory policy has worsened recently. A third of the normative acts adopted by the executive authorities do not comply with the principles of deregulation. Obviously, one reason for this is that no law has yet been passed in the sphere of national regulatory policy. The legal framework is still limited by several presidential decrees and government decrees. Therefore, the relevance of the bills that we are considering today is undeniable. Both the bill introduced by Yehanur, Shandra and other colleagues, as well as the Yuri Karmazin bill, are generally in line with the modern needs of the economy and can create a reliable legal basis for state regulatory policy. However, the first of these has significant advantages. The Karmazin project, in our view, unreasonably narrows down the scope of State regulatory policy because it does not consider its implementation by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The advantage of the first bill is a much more specific solution to procedural issues, and the existence of largely direct rules of action. This is extremely important in terms of law enforcement. However, a major flaw in both projects is that they have actually ignored the proposal put forward by the President of Ukraine at the U.S. Business Council on July 15, 2002, to pass on to the mergers of entrepreneurs part of the national regulatory functions. Without this, the law is largely lost. Therefore, the faction of the United Social Democrats supports the bill passed by Yuri Yehanur and other deputies, provided that this proposal is taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u117	Valerius Konovaluk, faction of the region of Ukraine. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u118	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Unfortunately, Ukrainian entrepreneurship remains the subject of economic activity that has no significant impact on socio-economic indicators. If in developed countries the share of entrepreneurship in GDP is 50 percent or more, we have only seven. The development issues are well known to all of us, and the lack of effective financial and credit support for small and medium-sized businesses, insufficient infrastructure development, weaknesses in the taxation system, the lack of specialized departments in the executive branch structure, and the administrations that have been directly involved in the development of the enterprise at the local and problem-solving levels, the lack of provision for business development at the legislative level. These bills are relevant because they are designed to ensure the implementation of a single national regulatory policy in the area of entrepreneurship as one of the main priorities in the work of executives in implementing economic reforms. As evidenced by the practice, the adoption of new regulations by the central and local executive authorities do not relate to the principles laid down in the ideology of national regulatory policy. A review of draft regulatory acts before they are approved allows for the rejection of about 30 percent of acts that hinder business development and do not meet market requirements. Dear National Deputies! Thus, the situation surrounding enterprise development has become possible due to the lack of legislative anchoring of the principles of State regulatory policy in the area of entrepreneurial activity. The adoption of the law will allow the legislative level to consolidate regulatory policy, provide a basis for improving regulatory activity in the system of authorities. It is vital that the principles of this policy be put in place and that the government’s policy be ensured for economic and social transformation. But there are a few comments about the need for a revision to the second reading of this bill. The project provides for public discussions exclusively on all draft regulatory acts that are being developed. It is considered useless because it is a costly procedure that will become an additional burden not only on the budget but will also stop when decisions are made. I think we need to introduce the term "efficiencies of regulatory acts" and more. Indeed, we need to unite these two bills, but I, like the faction, tend to support Project 1161-1 so that we already have a document that will ensure not only the development of entrepreneurship but also the fulfilment of a very important social function and the fulfillment of both state and local budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u119	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, prepare for Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u120	Dear fellow national MPs, honourable chairman, I would like to focus on some details here about the two bills. First of all, I'm surprised because there's a discrepancy in dates. Law 1661 was introduced in June, and Law 1661-1 was introduced in November, so the variance is large enough and I don't understand why it went as an alternative. [[Same year]] He could have just been introduced, but there's no alternative here. Because when they go away in one month or one day or at least two weeks apart, it's still clear. And the others. I want to refer to the head of the committee, to Mr. Yehanurov, just to work out and go to the Supreme Council with a single bill. We play this game over and over again, two, three, five, 10 bills, and in the end, the lottery option works. I want to avoid it all the time, because, on the other hand, we need this bill, it's anti-corruption in its foundation and in its nature, it reduces the pressure on the entrepreneur and, indeed, on the consumer. Because it protects both the entrepreneur and the consumer of the product that these businesses and entrepreneurs produce. It's a very important bill, and we don't have the right to go to it like this, just to pick up and drop two bills and put them in competition. We need to adopt a bill and increase the number of bills. We need to adopt legislation, and increasing the number of bills makes it difficult to adopt. So I'd like to propose, so here's my proposition. Taking Karmazin's project, he'll, we'll talk, narrower, he's better than I am, written and cuter and therefore, I think on his basis take all the innovations that are proposed, the quality novels that are proposed in Law 1661-1, and go to the session room with the only bill. I tend to, of course, if I have to adopt one of the bills in the first reading and give instructions to the committee on the basis of this to develop and pass on to the second reading in the sessional room a single quality law, a bill to pass the law, because until the state regulation in this area is in place, we will not be able to talk about the gradual development of the same sector, because there can be no non-interference. So the position of the State's non-interference here is the position of promoting corruption. So why anticorruption? Because when a state looks like an observer, that is, it -- I don't see anything, I don't hear anything, let them compete with each other, the competition will always be inequitable, the competition will always be, the stronger suppresses the weaker. More powerful than the one who gives better produce and better quality, the stronger the one who has more influences, the better the opportunities. And who's suffering from it? A consumer. We will protect both the consumer and the manufacturer, so I am convinced that we are obliged to adopt this law. And I'm calling on the committee to have you come to us with a single bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u121	Thank you. Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Singer. Is there a singer?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u122	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! The economy has two interconnected processes of regulation and deregulation. And every moment there is a problem: to achieve the adequacy of these two processes, that is, to achieve a balance of regulation and deregulation. And only under this condition can economic policy be effective. So this is about achieving a balance of administration and economic freedom. So freedom must be within a certain range, within a certain framework, but these frameworks should not compress it in such a way that it does not produce the right results. It's always hard to achieve, and we often see that there's either manual control in the economy, which is harmful, or a lot of natural processes that come out of control. So you have to coordinate these processes in a way that they work for the result. We now have the problem of regulating the state's regulatory activities with regard to business and economic activities. Since this is a state policy, it is also necessary to regulate this policy. That's what we're doing right now. Clearly, regulatory policies should be transparent, effective, and clear. Here are the three main points that should be present in regulatory policy. We have two laws. And I tend to take either one of them as the basis for taking, and the other one as the basis for the second reading, or, in fact, to prepare one law, to send two laws again first, so that's the decision of the hall. But I would like to express some thoughts on the finalization and make suggestions. Of course, the main thing is to reduce regulatory pressure on entrepreneurial and economic activities, to stimulate entrepreneurs to get out of the shadows. This will ensure GDP growth, unemployment reduction, job creation, and budget income growth. That's what these laws are going to do. I would focus on anti-corruption laws, i.e. protecting entrepreneurs, employers, industrialists from excessive government pressure, overcoming the dictatorship of government. The next is efficiency to increase regulatory acts. And raise responsibility. The law provides for, by the way, only disciplinary responsibility. I would suggest that we write down both administrative and criminal responsibility for breaking the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, consider the draft law on the principles of national regulatory policy in the field of entrepreneurial activity. Oh, I'm sorry, I announced. Vladimir Spivacuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine We will continue to consider this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u124	Vladimir Spiwiachuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill that we are discussing, in my view, is of the utmost importance for the development of not only entrepreneurship in Ukraine, but the restoration of its own production, Ukraine's exit to a wide range of economic cooperation with other countries. And the proposed bills, both one and the other, create favourable conditions so that we can restore the freedom of entrepreneurship, which is now suppressed by the government dictatorship, so that we can enable entrepreneurs, especially in the field of small and medium-sized business, to work actively, to work hard, to work with a high result. According to the experience of developed countries, small and medium-sized businesses are one of the main pillars of the economy, and that is why the state is contributing to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. But this is not the case in Ukraine. We have many examples that have already been cited from this rostrum, which are often reported by the media, examples that show excessive tax pressure, which indicates excessive control pressure, when completely unscheduled checks are sent to the deaf corner of any manufacturer. We have examples of failure to make even wonderful decisions. Let's say that one of the smaller, less active firms in the city of Olympus Hmelnick for more than six years is seeking a court order that will allow it to work. This would have led to the loss of almost one million taxes. And it's still going on, there's nothing you can do about it. Now, and this is what I've been talking about here, and I'd just like to remind you, very seriously, extremely painfully, let's say the control of so-called small traders, those who went to markets is not from a good life. More than that. Today, to the left and to the right absolutely, as it were, people who don't have anything to do with it are trading in markets. And all of this leads to the collapse of entrepreneurship. All of this leads to a loss of initiative. That is why the Law on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activities must be adopted. But I would like to make that point with my colleague's extension of what we need to have, and this is the committee's task, today's only bill based on Bill 1161. It's really more concise, it's more solid and concretely written. And that's why we need to get the best out of the Yehanurov project and the group of deputies, and on this basis, we need to put together a single bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, consideration of the draft Law on the Principles of State Regulatory Policy in the Business Sector has been completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. I'd like to consult with you. I was asked by the chairman of the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood to put in place two bills now and to consider how the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood could not be there. Is there no objection? Please. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on protection against noise is being announced for consideration. This is Project 2177. The reporter is Pavluk Mikola Pantelemonovich. And then we're going to consider the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Populations from Infectious Diseases. I'd like a reporter there. Please, briefly, if you please, in five minutes. We're already following a reduced procedure. Please take this into account, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u126	Honourable Chairman, distinguished People's Deputies. The draft law that I propose is called for amendments and additions to legislation to protect the population from noise effects. The name of the project already shows its relevance and orientation. It is proposed to supplement the Code on Administrative Offences, the Sanitary Care Act. and amend the Law on Local Self-Government. It is proposed to include in these laws rules for regulating activities related to the use of noise-producing equipment in human settlements. First of all, it is a sound-producing and sound-enhancing device. Noise is an important problem of Ukrainian human settlements. However, legislation does not give sufficient attention to this issue. Many complaints by citizens about violations of silence by various enterprises, particularly during the nighttime, have come to me, as a people's MP and many other people's deputies, local authorities and MPs. This topic is constantly emerging during my parliamentary election. There are other problems, but the insecurity of the population and the inability of the law to protect even in a fundamental human right such as the right to silence. That's really an acute problem. To date, Ukrainian legislation has virtually no rules that effectively regulate relations related to the observance of silence. There are only a few regulations in the Air Protection Act, but they are not effectively supported by responsibility for their violations and therefore become declarative. Article 182 of the Code on Administrative Offences, which are currently in force, establishes penalties for breach of silence only in the form of a fine up to three non-taxable minimum rates of income for citizens. Today it's 51 bracelets. It is clear that such responsibility cannot hold citizens or businesses back from breaking the silence in public places. In addition, there is no legal regulation of noise-related activities. There are only sanitary standards that have been adopted since the former Soviet Union. But they are not supported by the rules on liability for their violation of the mechanisms for implementation. Existing standards were good 15 years ago when there was a system of monitoring their compliance. But these standards are not enough in modern times, so the citizen remains alone, in violation of his right to quiet living conditions. Local government authorities are trying to fill a gap in existing legislation by issuing local legislation. In particular, the Kiev Council is taking steps in this regard and its experience has been taken into account in the preparation of the draft. However, in not all cities of the country, local authorities have the opportunity or desire to combat noise. For today, those who violate silence have more opportunity to defend their rights than those who suffer from their violations. But even when local authorities are taking the initiative to protect residents from noise, they are very limited in their work to the past. 51 The bracelet or warning will not prevent anyone from violating the silence and, more so, the enterprise that benefits from the violation. The proposed bill provides for a balance between the interests of those who engage in noise-related activities and the rights of other citizens to healthy living conditions. According to experts, in particular the Academy of Law of Ukraine, the bill meets European standards in this area, in particular Directive 49 of the European Union on the assessment and management of environmental factors related to noise, the Green Paper of the European Union on noise policy. Thus, the adoption of a bill is necessary to adapt Ukraine's legislation to European and world standards and to this area. The need for legislative measures to ban noise is not only recognized in Europe. Other CIS countries are also taking action on this path. The bill was reviewed by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Health, Motherhood and Childhood and the Committee on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement. Although the Health Committee did not adopt a positive decision on the draft, the Law Enforcement Committee did not. I supported him. The proposals made by the Health Committee will be taken into account in finalizing and preparing the draft for second reading. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Please note that this bill recognizes the interests of our voters, their right to a healthy living, work and rest. At the same time, the bill is very balanced and aims to strike a balance between these interests and the need for public education-related noise activities. Please support the bill and adopt it on first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u127	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Unfortunately, you can't. You can then do the procedure if you take it. Have a seat, please. Mikola Efremovich Polishchuk, chairman of the committee
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u128	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The bill was discussed twice at the Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood, and both options did not find the support of members of the committee. The main reasons for such a decision are the following. First. The issues that are proposed for settlement are already fully addressed in current legislation, in particular articles 19 and 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Sanitary and Epidemiological Welfare. The responsibilities of local authorities, businesses, institutions, organizations, and citizens to protect the population from harmful influences, noise are regulated. In Ukraine, laws approved by the Ministry of Health from the Soviet Union are still in force. That's two: 84 and 87. First. Next. The issue of non-permissive effects of noise on human beings and air is regulated by articles 6, 8, 10, 12, 13, 21, 33 of the Ukrainian Air Protection Act, and by the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. First. Concerning the approval of a state accounting system in the field of air protection from 13,12,2001, which introduces a single system of state accounting for enterprises, institutions, organizations, and citizens of business entities that have or may have a harmful effect on the health of people of physical and biological factors. On the order of development and approval of environmental safety and air standards since 13.03.2002. The Act on the Order of Approval of Standards on the Limits of Permissible Effects of Physical and Biological Factors of Stationary Sources, Pollution and Atmospheric Air Since 13.03.2000. The last two government decrees have fully resolved the issues proposed by the bill in article 22-2. Questions about the prevention of air damage have also been found in Ukrainian laws on enterprise, on businesses in Ukraine. Responsibilities for the monitoring of citizens' observance of public order and the use of appropriate administrative measures against violators, as enshrined in article 10 of the Ukrainian Police Act. The bill’s mechanism for paying permission to engage in activities related to noise formation, a sound recording device, is essentially a new form of compulsory congregation of entrepreneurs. This conclusion is also confirmed by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. The bill thus violates articles 11 and 15 of the Ukrainian Act on the Tax System, which prohibits the introduction of new types of taxes and assemblies by other laws. The issue of establishing rules of silence in public places belongs exclusively to the jurisdiction of rural, rural, urban councils, as we talked about, Mikolo Pantelijovich. We thus interfere with this law in the laws on local self - government. The Committee fully shares the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office that making the proposed changes to the laws of Ukraine "On Sanitary and Epidemic Welfare" and "On Local Self-Government in Ukraine" is not appropriate, because the problem is not in the absence of legislation, but in order to achieve unconditional implementation by improving the effectiveness of monitoring their implementation and by applying legal responsibility for violating the legislation on the protection of the population against noise. The proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences provide for increased liability for violations of silence in unwarrantedly large fines and are groundless. It's on. The conceptual flaws of the bill and the need to reject or make radical changes are also reflected in the findings of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Ministry of Health. Please support the draft decision made by the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood on the rejection of a bill to amend and supplement some of Ukraine’s legislation on protection against noise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u129	Thank you, Mikola Efremovich. Yes, explain the list of names that have been recorded for discussion. Two "for", two "against" we need. Yuri Anatolyevich, please. You're welcome, Yuri Anatolyovich. Carmazine, our Ukraine faction, please. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u130	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. The Ukrainian people are not only affected by noise and noise today, but by the people’s concern about whether they will send a battalion to Iraq, the Ukrainian people are concerned, and this is the greatest noise. But I don't think we're going to let that happen, and that's not going to happen to the Americans. As far as the bill is concerned, I want to say that it's a very good idea, the idea hangs in the air. What's happening in Odessa, for example, about the noises that are being done in Arkady, where people are being hampered all the time, they've been writing telegrams all summer, and they've been asking questions that local-controlled oligarchs have made discotheques that make it difficult for people to live normally and to rest. It was necessary to react, but not because of the lack of law, it was necessary to react because the executive authority did not take all the measures provided for in the law. That's the only reason. And I very much thank the People's Deputy of Polishku as the head of the committee for the very professional report on this bill, because there is really a lot of legislation that duplicates the provisions of the law on local self-government, in particular article 26, section 1, paragraph 44, of the law, which requires the establishment of rules of compliance. I don't know. The bill provides that for the granting of a permit to carry out activities related to the amount of money formed, it is necessary to pay the congregation in the amount of one nontaxable minimum, which is contrary to the tax system law, because congregations are established solely by tax laws. I see that the authors tried to draw conclusions, they even filed a bill instead of already proposed, but they tried to regulate a lot of relationships, especially they wanted to change administrative responsibility. But there is administrative responsibility under articles 79, 96 of the Codex. And today this bill is legally too raw. And I agree with the committee's conclusion that he can't be accepted today. This is also what the academic of Pavlovsky thinks, which I have just talked to on the subject of his expertise as a scholar of this bill. So there's good grains here that we should probably work on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u131	Yes, so we already have one against us. Andrew Schlell, please, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u132	Thank you. I would, of course, like to thank the drafters for the initiative, because I understand where this initiative came from, because there's noise in cities, there's noise in others. I mean, the restaurants, the other restaurants there, they bring their noise to the street, and it gets in the way. But, you know, with good intentions, there's a path to hell. So because of the good intentions of reducing noise levels and protecting the population, we get a bill that says that we can, a) ban the rallying, or the sound of the rally -- it's already going to be a noise effect, they'll say, we don't want to. One citizen, two of whom will write a statement that prevented them from listening, sleeping, being treated, and that immediately beats the constitutional right of citizens to peace congregations, which immediately strikes the Constitution. So it's a shame that they, the Legal Department, didn't pay attention to the committee, which is very important. Because this bill contravenes the Constitution as well. Next. It is common that the desire was to influence the unregulated structures that plague the city. But on the other hand, so strict regulations were proposed that it simply didn't go within any scope, and it was violated, so to speak, by administrative legislation. I'd like to be told here by the chairman of the committee about large fines, and I'd like to read that between 250 and 500 untaxed minimums will be fined. Well, it's the Criminal Code, it's not under the jurisdiction of the Admincodex, you know? This is the amount that no one can answer for, on the one hand, no one will pay it, on the other hand, the payment of this sum will entail criminal responsibility. And for the rally, there will be criminal responsibility for the noise or noise. Next thing you know, planes. Airplanes flying over the city create noise effects, and this noise effect is regulated by others, and the CA., and other bills that basically allow planes to move. This bill, if it works to the full, will prohibit the movement of domestic aircraft in Ukraine. And I would just like to point out that not to repeat the first reading, I would like to disagree with the decision of the Chief Executive and Mr. Matsuk, but simply to reject this bill and invite the authors to come out with a quality bill that regulates noise effects rather than political noise they wanted to pause. Don't stop the action "Get up, Ukraine!"but to stop those underprivileged entrepreneurs who, by their advertising and sound effects and others, cause discomfort to the inhabitants of Ukraine. I would like to stress once again, reject this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u133	We've got two against us. We have Olga Hinzburg and Vladimir Cherniak. Are you "for" or "against"? "For"? Turn on the microphone, please, Olga Hinzburg. Or here, go to the rostrum. Turn on the microphone. Just a minute. We're on our way.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u134	Out of the way. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, 161 constituency, Communist faction, Hinzburg. You see, I wanted to raise such questions in my speech. Clearly, this law is needed as a law in itself or as its essence today. This is something that we must agree with. But there are many laws in force today that are unfortunately not being implemented. As I speak today in the Supreme Council Hall, I would like to say the following for those who work in places. For example, while working in their district, there are always people who are always complaining that shops, bakeries, or other bars, nightclubs, or so are being built on the first floor of the building. And today they are hindering people who live above the surface to rest peacefully. And on these complaints, the administration doesn't respond very much. Or he reacts purely with a note. And for that, we have the law. And I would like to say, there is a law on the provision of sanitary and epidemiological welfare for the population, where local authorities have to respond. And these are all people's complaints to provide. The second question that concerns me should be said today. Construction of gas stations that are constantly built in the center of the city, in the middle of buildings, on many floors. And nothing can be done. Criminals are being prosecuted, complaints are being complained to the prosecutor, and decisions are being made in the back. And they're still building. I think that if we're this law that we don't have, then the new law that we're going to adopt, it's going to fail. It's not that, it's you and me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u135	Are you in favor or in favor? I don't get it. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ I don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u136	Well, that's what you said. Please, Vladimir Cherniak. If you don't mind, talk to me now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! Noise is an extremely important problem, and it needs to be solved. I don't think any of you have any doubts about this. The noise of negative health effects has now spread to one of the first places. Health damage is one of the causes of excessive noise. Of course, we may not accept this law. But the problem remains, the problem needs to be solved, including by law? The problem needs to be solved on two sides. On the one hand, limit administrative resources, fines, and so forth noise effects. On the other hand, to create a suitable environment, such as planting trees and so forth. What's going on? They cut down trees along roads, chop down trees in cities. It's actually a crime. I find it unconvincing to argue that this issue is already settled in other laws. This question is not settled, it is partially settled. I am convinced that a special framework law is needed to create a legislative field to combat noise. I don't urge you to cut back, including the bill. There are questions about the financing of the bill. I agree. With regard to the introduction of a new congregation, a new tax on fines that should be their scope. But actually, I don't think you can avoid fines if they're breaking the Noise Act. Of course, it is necessary to allow businesses, give time, move to new technology, to new technology, to make noise less noise, to transport less noise, and so on. But there must be a concept, a conceptual law, that will guide our efforts in addressing these issues. There is no separate law, there is. Well, maybe you'll show me the law, I don't know where these issues would be settled. There's part of it. And if we even duplicate something, if we specify something, the accents are placed, I think it'll be useful. I mean, I think that, in principle, such a law is necessary. Maybe we can't act as strongly as we have suggested here, so I'm finally proposing a draft for re-reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u138	First, first, first.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u139	To read again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u140	Yes, from Maria Marcus, please a faction of Communists, from the Committee of Legal Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u141	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. The above-mentioned bill was discussed by the Committee on Law Enforcement, chapter 3, on amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences. I think this is a bill, this is chapter three, which means it also needs substantial work. Why? Hence, the footnote states that decisions are made regarding the prohibition of violations of non - signs, by execution, or by a session? Part Three of Article 182. The article does not specify who is the subject of a violation of those rules. In addition, it is not justified to confiscate the tools used in breaking the rules, but the absence of an alternative. This includes part of the first proposed article.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u142	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u143	The proposed part of article 182, part five, on the establishment of the responsibility for designing and deploying noise - related objects if such design is carried out in violation of sanitary standards and regulations, building standards and rules, and noise maps, already provided by the Codex, provides for this responsibility for this form of administrative abuse in article 79. and in article 96 of the Code of Administrative Violations. Part five of article 182 of the bill should therefore be deleted. The fines in the first part of article 182 and the introduction of part two in the bill are not justified in the same way as the fines in part three from eighty to two hundred fifty, part four from two hundred fifty to five hundred there, and part five of 182 from two hundred to five hundred untaxed minimum incomes of citizens. Those fines are too high and uncharacteristic for administrative legislation, there is no indication of who will make up the protocols for this category of offence, i.e. the amendment to article 255 of the Code of Ukraine has not been made. Article 221 of the Ukrainian Code on Offences, which provides for the consideration by courts of offences provided for in article 182, part three and fourth, but it would be appropriate for these offences to be dealt with in the courts as a whole, and for article 218 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, where this category of cases was given to the appellants, to be excluded. Furthermore, there is a disagreement between article 221 on the consideration of this category of cases by the courts of article 294, which stipulates that these articles should be harmonized, since article 294 provides for an order of action for the administrative decisions of the courts. This contradiction should also be removed. So these two articles -- 221 and 294 -- should also be harmonized.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u144	Yes, thank you. Please, Olga Bobilova, Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Health. Very briefly, I'm asking you. The position of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u145	Honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a respected national MP, refers to factors that directly affect the health of the population. You could say that up to 30 percent of cardiovascular disease can be directly related to noise and, in general, this factor. I want to say that, for us, for the Ministry of Health, the basic law for its supervisory authority is the law on the provision of sanitary and epidemiological well-being. Of course, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has established everything that is needed for work in this law. Even now, we see that the existence of special laws such as radiation protection of populations, such as the Anti - Infectious Diseases Act, tuberculosis, and AIDS do not allow for more effective implementation, so to speak, of functions designed to protect the health of the population. Therefore, we would ask everyone to consider this law necessary and to request it to be further developed. Of course, today there are, so to speak, questions that need further work, but still.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u146	That's all right. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on protection against noise has been completed. We're going to make a decision on the day of the vote, taking into account the discussion, but I would like to say that even in view of what's happening in our room, it's obviously the kind of law that's needed to protect us from the negative effects of the noises that are in our session room. A draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Populations against Infectious Diseases against Human and Animal Diseases is under consideration. Komar Mikola Stepanovich is a reporter. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u147	Thank you. The proposed bill applies to all who eat meat, which is rarer, who use meat more often, but all use meat. I'll try very briefly, Vasil Mikhailovich. In the last 20 years, the problem of pre-infections has become a major social issue, which is primarily related to the intensification of the spread of pre-infectious infections in the human population through agriculture, the main source of food for today's human beings. In 1997 the total number of cattle infected by pathogens, carnivorous encephalopathy killers, the so - called cow’s tale, reached 1 million cows. Indeed, the picture of the spread of this group of so - called slow infections in most countries, including Ukraine, has not been studied. In the absence of available methods to diagnose the early stages of these diseases, Cresvelt Jakob, Garsman, Strausser, Schenker, Miotche, and others. Only 6 percent of them are diagnosed for consumption. However, observations by medical experts in England indicate that 10,000 dead 1 die from death. Infections. Mankind today is at the threshold of a new era in biology and medicine. Because a new type of infectious disease, which differs from its nature and nature, has been discovered. So I'm going to allow myself to focus very briefly on the characteristics of the pathogen agent. Brion is a modified protein that is normally in the 20th chromosome of every human being and is responsible for the aging process. It is present in all kinds of mammals and birds. Briony is extremely resistant to physical factors, and he only dies when he is burned. So in a user-friendly way, I'm stressing that the diagnostic of the disease is complicated by the fact that the pathogen brion is different from the normal one just in a spatial way. Its molecular grid has two spiral areas instead of 4 and the ability to play in foreign cells without DNA and RNA. This process can stop, you know, just death, total loss of life. In addition, recent studies have found that the pathogen, when contacted by a normal protein, infects it into the same anomalous form. Today, there are 4 major pathways of pathogens to the body. It's basic when we eat meat; it's intravenous; it's introperitoneal; it's introperitoneal; it's introcerebral during surgical interventions; and it's intradermal about skin damage; and it's also related to women, especially when using cosmetics. Having reached the body of a biological creature, the prion is primarily located in cells of the immune system, which is unable to recognize a pathogen, and is considered normal, so there are no biological reactions from the body during the incubation period. They begin to manifest themselves actively only in the heat of the disease. The incubation period of the disease depends on the method.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u148	Please. I'm sorry. Mikola Stepanovich, come here. It's not a lecture today, it's not an enlightenment. Why it is necessary to make changes to the relevant legislation from a legal point of view. Explain that. I think everyone will. Who's interested in the lecture, then we'll distribute the relevant information material. Most of the halls don't understand what they're talking about. And I don't get it either.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u149	I'm not going to convince you anymore, I'm just going to say what was done in Ukraine on this point. The first step is Kabmin's decision to approve a programme to prevent spongy encephalopathy, a tale of cows. The second is the President's decree of urgent action. Now we have to make a law because we have no idea what it is in the law. So this is the next step. Next, well, then there will be other steps.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u150	Thank you. Everyone understood the need and importance of such a change. I think the committee will confirm. Thank you, Mikola Stepanovich, please sit down for the timeliness of the proposed changes. Mikola Efremovich Polishchuk, head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u151	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill called for a legislative solution to a number of issues related to the world’s spread of a new group of infectious diseases caused by alternating proteins called preya. The designated disease class is common to both animals and humans, and there are no visual barriers. Concerned about the spread of prion infections in Europe, the Ukrainian government has adopted an appropriate decision and approved a programme to prevent and eliminate large cattle disease as the basis for the source of infection for humans. However, we're not ready to test on a prion infection of a product that contains animal ingredients and can be a factor in human infection. No specific measures have been taken to develop methods of diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of these infections in humans. So you have to anticipate the cost of doing the right research, developing diagnostic methods, treating, and so on. The introduction of prophylactic infections into the basic composition of the law in the area of the fight against infectious diseases should give new impetus to their study, the search for prevention tools, and diagnostic methods. Thus, the Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood recommends that the bill be adopted on a basis in order to clarify the scientific name of the causes of the disease, complement the final situation with the development of preventive and anti - epidemic measures, the creation of the necessary laboratory, diagnostic base in medical and health institutions. Thank you for your attention, and please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u152	Thank you. Yeah, let's get down to business. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, can we make this decision? You can go out of your way to save time. Please turn on Karmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u153	Honorable National MPs. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. I wanted to draw your attention to a few of the circumstances under this bill. I was waiting for a bill to be passed to protect the population from infectious diseases. And I've been waiting here to hear what's going on, and it's going to be done to stop, really, the TB epidemic that's in the state. The TB epidemic, which is in places where people are deprived of their will, is good. 220,000 people are in places where they are deprived of their will, and a third of them now have signs of tuberculosis. Then we let them out of here and it spreads. The former government and finance minister Jusko took and cut the funding on his own. What? Tuberculosis - control measures are 50 percent and cancer - control measures. It's going all the way to the extermination of these people. This is what we needed to talk about today, and we didn't have to talk much about the Prion today, although it's also very important. And if that goes on, we will not protect our people. And we need to make serious changes. And the changes that are being proposed today are only proposed to add three words: in article 1 of the People's Protection Against Infectious Diseases Act, write after the word "viruses" add the word "pathogenic protein yarns". And that's how much we're having an argument. We're being lectured on this. And I want to tell you, theoretically, that's what we have to do. It's practically hard to implement. And it's clear that it's hard to implement. So I would like to emphasize that to strengthen the system and the disease as much as it is. It is our responsibility to do so, and let the government look for ways to do so. We have to take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u154	Oleg Pullside is. It was written down. Not everyone who signed up has made a statement. Please, Bobilova Olga, First Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u155	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! The Ministry of Health and the Government of Ukraine certainly supports the need for the introduction of this disease. Because if we do not do so today, prevention will continue to apply only to the measures taken today in the veterinary system, and then in a few years, we will talk not only about tuberculosis and AIDS but also about the disease of the population from the disease. Jacobson, whom they call. infection in the population. Therefore, we ask for support in making such an amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u156	Dear colleagues! A review of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Population against Infectious Diseases for the Protection of Human and Animal Diseases has been completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. The discussion has shown that we are united in the need to adopt such a bill. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Paying for Minimum Wages is being announced for consideration. Reporter Jaroslav Suhi, please. Very short, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u157	Dear National Deputies! Bill number 2363 already adds to the current Act on Pay for Work, which shows that both our basic law and the need to improve the pay system themselves is certain. Complementing the law with new standards strengthens the social protection of workers. In particular, the law proposes to change the conditions for determining the minimum wage, since there is no longer such social standard as the value of the minimum wage. By the way, and in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine on State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees and, in particular, in accordance with the text of the Programme of Action of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I quote, pages five: the establishment of an economic and socially sound minimum wage with a phased approach to a subsistence minimum. Therefore, it is suggested that a valid social standard — a subsistence minimum that is approved annually by the Supreme Council of Ukraine — be used. The bill foresees that the minimum wage is gradually fixed to a minimum of at least the minimum wage, i.e. gradually, we need to get closer to this basic social orientation. In addition, it is proposed to delete the article of Part Two of the 14 Act in force, which temporarily allows the period of overcoming financial difficulties by no more than six months to impose collective agreement rules on work below the rules laid down by the General, Branch or Regional Agreements, but not less than the State rules and guarantees for payment of work, since this is contrary to the Collective Contracts and Agreements Act. I want to remind you, this is about the phenomenon that was recently broadcast in the Voice of Ukraine, a statement by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine about the action at the site of the Minimum Wages Act. Instead of implementing the Law on Minimum Wages in Places, they are engaged in reducing jobs and limiting the very size of wages. There is also a rule in which we are already trying to introduce this rule and vote in favour of it for the first-time payment of salaries to employees, regardless of whether or not other compulsory payments have been paid. Because we have today in the first quarter of the year of Ukrainian payroll for 800 million dollars. The introduction of such changes by the committee is seen as contributing to the stabilization of living standards, the creation of objective premeditations for the steady growth of the real monetary income of the population. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is that this is an important direction in the social policy of the state. The project can be taken as a basis. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour proposes to adopt Bill No. 2363 as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u158	Thank you. Please have a seat. Now we need to discuss, two-for-two-again, this bill. Please explain the names of the national deputies who have been enrolled in the discussion. Mikhailo Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u159	The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland, the Hmelnichchina. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable members of the government, national MPs, and the rest of the press! I want our faction to support this bill, that is, for, but accept it in the first reading and make a few additions. In article 9, it should be added that the last sentence is that the monthly minimum wage is set at no lower than the minimum wage for a working person, including to be completed, taking into account the hourly form of pay. This time. And the second. No reduction in the number of workers working to raise wages is allowed. Let's move on. In article 15 it is a matter of complementing this with the following: "The pay of employees of all enterprises, regardless of the form of ownership, is made in the first order." And so on. Article 34. To complement this by saying, "Courts are obliged to accept civil debt claims in all areas of the national economy and in all enterprises where they are." The thing is, we've faced this problem with teachers, where there's a lot of debt in the budget area. For example, the Zitomir Region accepted a lawsuit, and it was paid as a result of the debt court’s decision. In other areas, they don't want to see judges, they say no right away. The law should therefore state that courts are obliged to take civil action if there is a problem with the debt of wages. Given these suggestions, our faction supports this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u160	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u161	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, I have carefully read this bill and the alternatives that have gone up, and I want to tell you by putting my hand on your heart. What it says right now is that since the adoption of this bill, the minimum wage will not be lower than the minimum wage stipulated by the legislation for citizens' subsistence minimum, and that's 342.2 bracelets, that's very good. But, please tell me, where are we going to take them today? Well, rather, where will the government take them today, this half-empty bed of government, because, clearly, they're driving through Switzerland, is that really necessary? It is in Switzerland that the economy starts, and that's where the money is going to have to be hidden, which is now being washed away and in the coal sector. So, can we do it today or not? Of course, there will be a real increase in the wages of workers, which will affect the welfare of the population if this is done and ensured. But the numbers in this law are going to call it, it's going to be totally unfair to the population of Ukraine, to the people of Ukraine, because we're not really going to provide this law right now. And even if we do evil to Yanukovich and adopt this law, it's still going to work that way. Moreover, he will demand expenditure from the State Budget, which has already been approved. There goes a dispute of forty-seven million, and it's going to be billions! The bill stipulates that it has become effective since publication, but this does not correspond to article 27 of the Budget Code, which states that what affects the formation of the income part of the budget should be officially published by 15 August of the year ahead of schedule. Therefore, the honourable national MPs, the figures from which this bill comes out, and the impact on the tax system are contrary to the tax system law, which states in article 1 that the tax and tax and tax administration mechanisms cannot be established or amended by other laws other than those on taxation. So in summary, I want to say that the honourable national MPs and the distinguished Ukrainian people, unfortunately, I see in this law extremely many populist things that are completely not supported by life. I want him to work to exist, I want him not to be 342 bracelets, but 342 dollars to be, but unfortunately it's unrealistic.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u162	Thank you. Are you in favor or against this law?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u163	I have expressed my opinion that I am in favour of improving people's lives, but against the mechanism established by this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u164	Would you mind, have a seat, please? Olga Hinsburg. We've got one for it, one for it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u165	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Hinzburg, 161 constituency, Communist faction. By acting under this law, I see a problem for myself. This is a problem, and we, as deputies, have to respond to it. There's a lot of problems with not paying wages, there's this problem. The non-payment of wages or the return of this salary goes in kind, in goods. In doing so, people are deceived. Many businesses are bankrupt, and they pay off this salary not entirely, many businesses that have become bankrupt and sold to each other, there are facts, people are no longer hoping for a salary. And in general, when it comes to salary, every person who listens to us, thinks, well, the MPs have finally come back to us today and they're going to make a decision and give us fresh air so that we can have hope for a better life tomorrow. I was just talking to my constituents about some of the issues that they're dealing with. The first is the minimum wage. The minimum wage does not include part - time work, in difficult, especially harmful conditions. At work with special natural geographical and geological conditions, I apologize. But there are such facts when the minimum wage today includes work in the nighttime. These are the facts in my district. I want to tell you that today's Labour Act, article 12 says that the minimum wage does not include overtime, holidays, non-workdays, nighttime, non-worker time. And then, the violation of these, article 3, should be added: All these questions that arise have the right to be settled in court. I am now in favour of supporting this law. Because I'm counting, the monthly minimum wage is set in size, not below the minimum wage, which means 342 bracelets. There's one problem. By referring to a budget resolution, this law can be passed if we vote on it only next year. That's the problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u166	I understand you're in favor of the law. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ I'm "for" the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u167	Just a minute. Vladimir Puzakov, are you in favour or against the law? No, no, are you in favor or against? "Again"? Please. No, are you in favor or in favor? Against it. One "against" is another "against". It's a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u168	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine The city of Kirov. Average wage. What happened in Ukraine last year, that is 391 bracelets, exceeds the living minimum of 365 bracelets. Much less living minimum for agricultural workers - 194 bracelets, 225 health bracelets, 231, education 284. So I also think it's necessary to uphold the norm that the minimum wage does not include overtime, holidays, non-workdays and weekends, during the night, during the simplest and other periods provided for in article 12 of this law. It is absolutely right to change the conditions for determining the minimum wage, setting it in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, not less than the minimum wage for a working person. The rule on the priority of pay is to be supported with certainty. Its acceptance will provide an opportunity to end Ukraine with such a shameful phenomenon as the failure to pay wages. However, the new formula of article 34 of the law leads to the fact that part of the salary due to a breach of its pay schedule will be carried out without taking into account the index of price increases on consumer goods and tariffs for services or will cease to count altogether, violating the rights of workers. This is why article 34 of the Ukrainian Act on Paying for Work is proposed to read: "Compensation for employees' loss by breach of pay periods is carried out in accordance with established valid legislation." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u169	Right. Please, Mikola Alexiyovich Soldatenko, Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Government position. Two "for" - two "against". Please. We still have nine bills to consider, if you agree that we're going to be working in 15 hours, let's talk about it, let's continue. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, the Cabinet of Ministers does not support the drafting of this proposed bill for the following reasons. I want to remind you that today in the Supreme Council, on our committee's profile, there's a government bill with a similar name. And we've already accepted it in this room on our first reading. And by the way, these two positions that we have in this bill under Article 3 and Article 9 are already adopted in the first reading. That is to say, there is absolutely no logical need to repeat them in this bill. That's the position of the Cabinet of Ministers. With regard to other articles, such as article 14, the deletion of a standard that allows for today's business that has a difficult financial situation for six months not to introduce the general contract rules, if this does not allow financial conditions, will, of course, lead to certain jurisdictions in relation to corporate managers. For example, in agriculture today, there is a salary of 158 dollars. We've introduced 185 bracelets from January 1st. The general good says that the first discharge should already be 185. If we give for six months, that's what the business does if we're this one. We clean up, there will be, of course, problems in such businesses. As far as article 34 is concerned. Today, this position regarding compensation for the arrears is settled, and it is implemented according to the consumer price index. Here the author is a little ahead of schedule in view of the fact that today we should consider the Law on Changes to the Compensation Mechanism 2119, which proposes a slightly different mechanism. But if we accept that mechanism, we will have three mechanisms in place for today, and we will simply not be able to count this compensation properly and on time. These are the arguments of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u171	Thank you. A review of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Paying for Minimum Wages has been completed. The decision will be made in the light of the discussion. Assadchev, procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u172	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! It seems to me that it would be wrong to include this issue in the consideration of abbreviated ones, which is a very important question. You are well aware of the situation with the minimum wage of 237. We don't know what to do with it yet. Now we're going to go to 365. You can imagine what that means. So I would like not only the government to take a position, but he has already said it, he needs to be supported, but the leadership of the Supreme Council has taken a position. Because such laws are now extremely dangerous. Let's do it at all. You know, the budget committee makes sure that all the digital indicators of minimum standards are defined exclusively in the Budget Act, and based on them, the budget is formed. But today, if we just make such a change as is proposed by the reporter, believe me, it's going to be a complete economic breakdown. So I think that this law would just have to be removed, maybe temporarily removed, there for a year, but today we just can't accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u173	Thank you. I'm the only one who can tell. Dear colleagues! I want to tell you about the procedure. We have nine more bills to consider. One minute, I'll be right there. I'll finish, let me tell you. Don't attack me so aggressively. I suggested on the Conciliation Council to the faction leaders, groups and committee heads, when we propose to include issues in the agenda, knowing in advance that they will not be considered, let's make sure that we consider and continue to work until we consider all the bills. You're only interested in one moment. And I'm interested in the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, and the procedure, including. So let's work it out for you then. Please, with the Vladimir Cherniak procedure. All I can say is that I fully agree with my colleague Assadchev. But there's got to be a MP Corps.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u174	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you very much. I testify that you're a real Democrat and you're conducting a democratic session. Under a procedure that has been defined in a non-democratic manner. Now it's about the bill. Indeed, it is extremely important, beneficial, and mere discussion. It's not a discussion we're having, it's just we're doing a little bit of talking and moving on. I'm taking a principled position on this issue, and I want to deny my colleague Assadchev, who considers the adoption of this law to be extremely dangerous. I think that the non-admission of this law is even more dangerous than its adoption, because there is an increase in debt on wages and we have to ask the government why. There has already been a tendency to reduce this debt. It's growing again. Non-payment of salary, low wages instead of rising wages, low purchasing capacity. These are very important problems that need to be solved, and so I think we need to support the new law that we have to pay the wages first, and then all the other payments. First, it is necessary to pay off the debt on a salary and gradually approach the minimum wage to the minimum wage. This is the responsibility of the Supreme Council. And let the government scratch the back of where to look for money.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u175	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! If there's no objection, let's continue for 15 minutes and consider another project. Draft law amending the Ukrainian law on payment of work on natural wages and payment periods. Reporter is National Deputy of Ukraine Feldman and co-reporter. No, we have two men here. Oh, no. So it will be reported by the Secretary of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Jaroslav Suhi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u176	Dear National Deputies! I'm going to the part that's the most consciously staying here. I fully share that point of view that the laws on pay and change should be set aside more in time, that's for sure, but you can imagine my stressful situation. I'm standing here with very little time. I'm trying to report, explain. Some MPs do not understand what this is about or who are deliberately misleading someone and are creating a negative aura around this law. Listen carefully, from the Government Program, this is me to the Secretary of State: salary has not yet become an enabling factor in the development of production, it does not generate labour. What's this all about? Ivan Alexandrovich, I'll tell you now!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u177	Please, Ivan Alexandrovich. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u178	What is the point in Bill 2363? People! There is no social norm like the value of a low-security limit. The Constitution, the Law on State Social Standards, has adopted a new standard of social, subsistence minimum. And what we're saying is that in this law that Hara wrote, it's suggested that we declare: a step-by-step approach to the minimum of living. Who said anything about money? If it's about money, it's about money that's lost! I'm sorry. Bill 2298, I'm going to be very brief on what the author is proposing, and the view of the committee, and of the Chief Executive. It is known that article 23 of the Ukrainian Wage Act defines the form of pay. The wages of employees in businesses in Ukraine are paid in cash signs that have legal circulation in Ukraine. As an exception, a collective agreement may provide for partial payment of in-kind wages at prices of not more than 50 percent of the monthly cost. The author, Ukrainian national deputy Feldman, proposes to limit the amount of payment in kind to 20 percent and to enforce the right of the employee not to do the job if the salary is delayed for 15 days. Comments from the committee. First. As for the limitation of payment in kind to 20 percent. A significant step, I remind all of us, because we have already taken part in this, a major step towards limiting employers' in-kind adoptability was by adopting a law by number, by amending article 23, by number 96-3. The law limits the amount of in-kind wage payments to 50 percent, limits on the price are not higher than the cost, and part three said that partial payment in kind may be provided for by collective agreement and as an exception. I remind all my fellow national deputies, even when such a standard was accepted -- 50 percent, and the government, and some of the national MPs present here, and Professor Cherniak, the academic of Pavlovsky, expressed such fears in their speeches that the limitation on the size of payment in kind can lead to an increase in debt from wages. In some areas of the economy, unfortunately, this has been the case, such as agriculture, which is second to the size of wages, natural pay is a necessary basic form and the ability to make current payments without delay. We don't have statistics on the results of the operation over the next five months of the new edition of part three yet, but we do know that in January-September 2002, in order to compensate employees for their salary, they sold both their own production and the barter for 1 billion 500 million, which is 4.6 of the pay-for-work fund. And against 2 billion 283 million the previous year. So it can be concluded that in nine months of this year, last year, the numbers of natural-form workers have dropped slightly, but we can talk about the need to limit now the amount of payment in kind to 20 percent prematurely, because in a hurry to solve one problem, we can increase the negative of another, it is now, to increase the debt of wages. And the second is about the employee's right to refuse to work for 15 days. If that's the right to strike, it's settled, economic and social interests have sufficient legislative regulation and additional legislation is needed, because it will only bring in a colossal, and in fact this will lead to us talking about a leave for an indefinite period without saving a salary, and we have clearly expressed it in 2000 and 2001. In addition, a failure to work can be viewed as a failure with subsequent release. The chief scientific and expert board of the Supreme Council made serious comments on this bill, but suggested that it be adopted in the first reading. The committee suggests that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u179	All right, Jaroslav Mikhailovich, you got it, right? From the procedure of the People's Deputy of Vernigor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u180	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, under your leadership as Head of the Supreme Council, we have expert, legal and other committees, administrations and other such institutions in our apparatus. Is it no one who can stop this abuse, a rape that goes not only to the deputies but also to the people of Ukraine, in view of the fact that we are entering a term that is called a step - by - step approach to the minimum subsistence or subsistence minimum? We understand perfectly that this is absurd, this is nonsense. We understand what it takes to get from the minimum step by step to the maximum or to the consumer basket. Can we go from death to resurrection? Or how so? At the very least, it is beyond the limits of biological death! Physical death! And we're going out here with you -- or two "against" or two "against." But could there be at least two "for" these laws? You must stop or stand guard so that such bills will not be considered in a session that is unconstitutional! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, I have no right, because there are some bills that I said not to register, they explained to me that this is the right of the legislative initiative of the people's deputies, and I sent them to the committee today. This is the right of a conciliatory council. But this is a bill submitted by national MPs, the subject of the legislative initiative. Let's move on to the discussion. Vladimir Puzakov. Please prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u182	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština In July 2002, you and I amended article 29 of the Ukrainian Law on Paying for Work on the Problem That We Rekindle Again. Last time, we cut wages by 50 percent in kind, and at the time, that was justified, because in nature, we pay wages, mostly in agriculture. So taking into account the changes to the income tax instructions from citizens made by the Ukrainian State Tax Administration, which were not taxed by the profit tax, we do a good job for our electorate. However, by the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2003, this benefit has been suspended. So given the legal nihilism that prevails in the state, especially with regard to the prices at which the salary is calculated, which seems to be in kind, I think we need to support Deputy Feldman's proposal to reduce the percentage of pay by own production. I don't think I'm opening up anything new when I say that today is often the price of a product that pays off, not that it's at a cost level, but often that it's even higher than a market price. Thus, it will be right to move gradually away from the nature of the payment. This is driven by the fact that we often get confused about the concept of natural form of payment to the right and the realization of goods at the expense of wages when, at the time of the in-kind payment, this is mainly the production of our own agricultural production, they sell any industrial product under a ban of the Cabinet of Ministers of April 03, 1993 at the number 244, including the number of years in warehouses. With regard to making changes to article 34, the author could only agree that if the employee had stopped working, the owner would be obliged to keep the average wage for that reason during a simple period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u183	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, prepare for John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u184	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable national MPs, a respected Ukrainian people who listen and cannot understand what they are talking about. The point is that a collective agreement, as an exception, could provide for a partial payment of wages in kind that does not exceed 20 percent. Now I'm reminding you, 50 percent in a month. In general, no one in any country pays in kind. We're the only ones today. Is this normal or normal? They tell us we can't. Of course it's not normal, first. And secondly, can this law and government, and the President, and all of us together. It's obvious that we can at some point at a transitional stage write that yes, we can agree to that. That's right to go down to 20. And then, in general, it's a gradual transition to just a form of money. But other than agriculture, which won't get out now, and won't give you how much money. Experts, such as Catherine Vaschuk, feel that this cannot be done at once. Hence, it may be necessary to introduce this law in a step - by - step manner. And that's exactly the way it's going to be. But this law will have to be passed. And it is very appropriate to grant employees the right in case of delay in payment of salaries for more than 15 days to stop working for the entire period pending payment of the paid salary, priorly notifying the owner or the authorized authority in writing. This is the constitutional right of citizens. How he has to go to work, pay money for moving, for clothes, and get money for lunch if he's not provided with money. Where can I get the money? It is said that in the Armed Forces, government officials cannot continue to do so, Feldman writes. And I ask him, where do these categories of citizens get money? Nowhere. Take bribes, there's no other way out. That's why I don't support this bill in this part. If money is not paid, even deputies have the right not to go to work. All of it. This has to be absolutely for everyone. I am asked, and the comments are: Where, then, can I get a salary? This will not improve the situation, the opponents say, as quitting the job will further exacerbate the economic situation of the company. Take credit, make any kind of change, change the government, change the presidents, change the members of parliament until there are those who pay the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u185	Ivan Hare, please. I mean, two "against." So you're in, Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u186	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, your honor. The bill of National MP Feldman is a very illustrative example that highlights many calculations in the legislative activities of our parliament. First. The National MP proposes to amend article 23 of the Wages Act to reduce the proportion of possible pay in kind from 50 percent to 20 percent. What is the history of this question? What is she talking about? The story of this question is so. The possibility of paying part of wages in kind was introduced by the Supreme Council of Ukraine last year, namely on July 11th, following the initiative of the President of Ukraine. What was the purpose of this standard? Of course, the oligarization of the economy, which received a new growth in the previous government, would logically lead the economy to collapse and thus to delays in the payment of wages. And today, Mr. Suhi called the figure that in a few months this year, the debt of wages had already increased by 800 million dollars. In such a situation, the mob wanted to be intimidated and have the opportunity to rob the people even more. Paying in kind is always accompanied by robbing people. And that's what all the pensioners, all the employees who have been working for years in a row, right, the government of Yushchenka broke this trend, got paid and pensions with sugar, bread, corn and so on at prices, you know what people are robbed of when they go to work, not when they go to pay money. It is necessary not to reduce the share of payment in kind, but to switch exclusively to the form of payment. And in agriculture, there's money for that. Do you know at what cost the grain was exported next year, what prices for agricultural produce, what? Low prices. For this reason, there is money for agriculture to pay the wages in cash, not in kind. There's still a mafia economy that's equal to our legal economy. From there we have to get the money out and give people money and make it free, not give it in kind, so that people don't have a penny to buy. So it should not be reduced, but it should be eliminated completely. The other one. National MP Feldman also suggests that article 34 be amended. He proposes to write down the standard that employees are entitled to in the event of a delay in payment of their salary for a period of 15 days before paying their salary. I mean, the National MP is proposing to introduce a mechanism called self-defense. From my point of view, it's populism, which is provocative in nature. Because this is how the MP proposes to remove the power to do his job, remove the unions, and say, "Let man protect himself." What will happen to the person who will stand up to this mafia and this corruption? So I think that this bill can't be adopted, and I need the authorities to make sure that people pay their wages at the right time, not the people themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u187	Thank you. Please, Victor Terrence, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u188	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues! You've already come to realize that this bill proposes to legitimize part-time wages in kind, which does not exceed 20 percent of the monthly wage, instead of the 50 percent that is provided for by the current law. Let's get this straight. This is, after all, half the time before a fair pay system is established in Ukraine. I want to say half-step, because the existing state of things, when they make their pay in kind, is that they're fundamentally violating human rights and the Constitution. And so when a person receives a reward for his work with no delay or packets of laundry powder, it is a violation of the Constitution. And obviously, there would be a constitutional guarantor getting paid by tacts, that would be a very, very large number of tacts. I want to talk about it, and it was said here that payment in kind creates conditions for all kinds of abuses and this pay doesn't give rise to the Pension Fund. I want to say that article 34 of the National MP Feldman's paper is written in more detail, but when the author of the bill says that in the event of a delay in payment of wages on. 15 days a worker has the right to stop work, and in this case it is a form of strike. I mean, it's kind of a strike permit. But this is not the subject of the law, it is regulated by the law on how to resolve labour disputes, where it is clearly stated which categories of workers are entitled to strike and which are not. In addition, I would like to remind you that the Criminal Code already provides for criminal liability for wages. For the delay in payment of salary. Conclusion. It's a good idea for the bill. But let's get even closer to a normal payment to people with their money, not, let's say, taps or something. Although this is only half a step to solving the problem. And the amendments to article 34 are generally unnecessary because their content is not the norm of this law. I would still suggest that you send him back for a second first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u189	Thank you. Please, Mikola Alexiyovich Soldatenko, Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u190	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Cabinet of Ministers fully supports the position of the PIC. First, regarding article 23. I had to report this bill here and then there were serious warnings by many MPs about 5-0 percent restrictions. But, thank God, this law works, too, but it takes at least a year to find out what the impact and change in the pay structure is. This is the first time. It's different. With regard to another proposal on the worker’s voluntary right to stop work, it is indeed a matter settled by valid legislation and in that law as stated by the previous law. the dispute and in the law concerning contracts. Therefore, we do not support this position, nor do we. As for article 34, we have today, I can say, seven legislative and other normative acts that regulate the responsibility of the manager of the enterprise for the timely failure to pay wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-19-m0.u191	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Pay for Work has been completed. [[on natural wages and periods of payment]] We will make a decision on the day of the vote. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. From the 15th hour -- parliamentary hearings on the state of preparations for Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. [[SOTO]] Tomorrow's day of adoption by the Supreme Council of Decisions. Thanks for the job.
