ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u1	Good evening, dear colleagues. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. 443 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We continue our consideration of issues according to the schedule of meetings for Tuesday, October 25. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 22003 on minimum wage is being announced for consideration. Let us make arrangements to deal with the matter. For the report, Mikolo Janovich, how much time do you need? Five minutes and five minutes to answer questions. We'll have two co-reporters. One minute, I'll be done in a minute. Two co-reporters will be the head of the committee, Hara Vasil Georgievovich, as well as Prashenko Petr Alexiyovich. So we have a report, a half-hour report. Then let's take the rest of the time for a discussion. Is there no objection? Please, Alexander Baranowski. Just fill in from the procedure, please for five minutes. And we're going to have this conversation right now. Sign up for everyone else. And Alexander Baranowski has the word. Everyone else, please sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u2	Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists. Pass the word to Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u3	Alexander Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow MPs! We spent three hours trying to reconcile positions between the Cabinet of Ministers and the deputies of the Supreme Council. And so even if we were to start looking at this issue, we would have to listen first, how and what was agreed upon by the Cabinet of Ministers and the head of the profile committee. And then we can't take that much time to process, but we're not just talking about each other, we still have to convince society that we have to give up some of the minimum wage on behalf of others. And to make sure that it's useful. So I don't think this approach is going to work. That's the first thing. And then there's a bunch of other laws besides this, and obviously there's a lot of other laws, and there's a lot of other laws, and it's about what we need to do, or when we're considering this question, to give a report to the Baranian Alexander Petrovich, as the author of the law, and as the co-author of the law, which is also under consideration and registered, and to other MPs. So you don't have to rush here, you have to figure out all the positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u5	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, the faction of Social Democracy, next will be Klitchenko. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u6	Thank you. I would like to take the floor to the People's Deputy Shufritch Nestor Ivanovich, the faction of the SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u7	Again, please, because here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u8	Thank you, Your Honor! Of course, the issue that we have to consider today is very important for the social life of our country, and certainly for the adoption of the main law for the next year - the State Budget. Yesterday we had a fruitful discussion on this issue and agreed to put it in order on the day, and to consider according to the procedure by identifying a reporter, a coconspirator, and today we have a decision to make. I'm sure there'll be an understanding in this room. We will discuss this issue in a comprehensive way, study it, and work to make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u9	Yes, Deputy Kalichenko, faction of Ukraine. Please, Pekhoti is passing on to Klitchenko. Vladimir Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u10	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! On our Conciliation Council, we had a meaningful and comprehensive discussion of the problem. If we go essentially, if we want to go to help today and the budget area and raise wages, we have to make a decision today that allows 15 percent of the next year to raise wages, enter tariff ratios and make people feel it. If he takes over politics, we can do bad for good. So I would like to propose to vote in favour of the project that the government is making.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u11	Yes, one minute, the young man gives Peter Simonna a word for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u12	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Communist faction believes it is necessary to propose a broad discussion of the draft law on setting the minimum wage for 2004. The problem is of great importance because it is the income of a particular family, a problem of family budget balance, a problem of prices, and tariffs. When today's socio-economic situation is exacerbated in connection with rising prices for bread, for milk, for flour, for bulk products, for meat, all of this makes life more difficult today. People are concerned. And recent sociological research has shown that today people are very concerned about two major problems: unemployment and price increases. Thus, the Communist faction suggests that all projects be discussed in detail and that a decision be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u13	Sergey Shevchuk, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u14	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, there may not be a single national deputy in this room who would oppose the increase in minimum wage. But we all know what the other question is: the relationship between the wages of specialists, professionals with higher education and unskilled workers. Regrettably, there is now a balance between the work of a surgeon and a paramedic, a cleaning woman, and a school teacher. Each faction has discussed the matter in detail. Each faction has been identified. Therefore, we suggest that we accept the order proposed by the Chief of the Supreme Council: to proceed to the discussion and to make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, let me inform you of what we've been negotiating for three hours. Calm down, please! This was suggested. I've just generalized what my fellow national MPs have been talking about, namely, to suggest that, since January 1st, the minimum wage is 205 dollars a month, not 1st March 2004, bringing in the ratios between positions, and 1st January 2004, that is to say, bring this date closer. That's the first offer I've made. And secondly, to entrust the government with the results of the mid-term, to draft the law on the establishment of a minimum wage of $237. and bringing in inter-tariff ratios to pay for the work of budget staff. So the compromise was so that we could look into the room and make the right decisions. But a proposal was made to increase time to consider the matter. Then let's do it this way. We have a half - hour report, so maybe we can have a half - hour discussion to get everyone to comment and then make a decision. Is there no objection? Thank you. Please, Mikola Janović Azarov is invited to report. We've discussed everything with a motive, please calm down. And the procedure has already been discussed. Please calm down. Dear colleagues, this is a matter of order in the day, since this is going to be a development of the Budget Code, I ask you to calm down. Let's look at it and figure it out. I'd like to ask you again, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You will be asked to set the minimum wage for the next period. We are grateful to you, honourable national MPs, that in the summer of this year, changes to the Budget Code have been made, and we are now setting minimum wage levels in the State Budget Act, which takes into account resource security. The legislation states that the minimum wage is determined by taking into account economic developments, average wages, productivity, employment levels and other factors. When we analyze the country's economy over the last three years, real GDP has risen by an average of 7 percent annually, and the minimum wage has increased almost twice over the same period. So the minimum wage went up at an earlier rate compared to the rate of growth in the country's economic development. In order to move forward with certainty, the tendency to increase the minimum wage must be based on economic indicators, otherwise this could lead to unforeseen consequences. As a bonus, we can determine that at this stage we have managed to bring the minimum wage to a minimum of living. If the minimum wage was 35 percent of the minimum wage in 2001, 50 percent in the current year. On the other hand, this has led to the loss of a job wage and motivation for high - efficiency work. We have placed highly qualified workers in unequal conditions because of the lack of resources to restore inter-qualificational ratios, both in the budgetary sphere and in most sectors of the economy. At some point in time, the economy could have been justified. If we care about tomorrow, if we care about the development of highly intelligent scientific technologies, such an approach cannot be justified. Moreover, it inhibits the country’s scientific and economic development. And with each increase in the minimum wage, the issue of restoring inter-employment ratios became more and more acute. Of course, this caused fair complaints from highly skilled workers and exacerbated the accumulated economic problems. It is not a secret that part of businesses now pay only the minimum wage to avoid increasing the cost of production through a sharp competitive struggle. But the longer they go, the more they can't do it. The most acute problems are agriculture, textile industry, housing and utilities. I'm not talking anymore. I'm talking about the debt that we have in the manufacturing sector, and any thoughtless and unbalanced step can lead to its growth. Therefore, the government, based on a real assessment of the situation that has arisen, is proposing to act in a balanced and gradual manner on the basis of the budget’s resources. At the first stage, set the minimum wage of 205 dollars per month from 1 December of this year, and from 1 March of the following year, restore the inter-skilled ratio in the salaries of budget workers. At the second stage, the minimum wage is proposed to increase to 237 dollars, by making payments to those workers whose wages are less than that level. This approach involves setting an economically sound minimum wage and avoiding the negative phenomena that I was talking about. In our view, the government's proposals are optimal and there are real costs for their implementation. Dear National Deputies! When we set up the budget project next year, we came out first of all from the need not to allow the debt of wages, to keep the network of budgetary institutions and the number of employees, to avoid pay-as-you-go balance, to stimulate high-intellectual work. The question that we are considering today is whether it is the most painful in society. Clearly, life requires a faster pace of approaching the minimum wage and minimum wage. The government understands that very well. However, it is only on the basis of the growth of the real economy that this difficult task must be solved. Populim shouldn't be here. Please support the bill introduced by the government and allow for a real increase in the income tax of our citizens as soon as possible. Please vote it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u17	Let's ask questions, dear fellows, let's sign up. Please sign up. Yes, sign up. On the board. Majctrishin, the faction of Ukraine, then Kozlowski will ask his questions from the agrarians.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u18	Vladimir Majctrishin, faction of Ukraine, District 14. Mikola Janović, who listened very carefully to your report and supported the government’s position on budgetary balance, especially in relation to the budget. I understand that there are certain positions that will affect the wages of budget workers, but let's focus on non-budgetary. And I'd like to hear from you what would be the economic impact of 237 dollars? For some reason, this side of the non-encumbered realm did not speak in your report. I would like to hear the answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u19	I'll give you a quick answer. We have 10 months of gross domestic product growth plus 7.5 percent. We have a real wage growth of 24.5 per cent. Pension growth is 6.7 per cent. This year, we increased our budget salary by 32 per cent and resumed our tariff ratios at a minimum wage of 185 grevens. I stress that we have only restored this tariff ratio by indexing. If we were to set the task of restoring the tariff ratios for the so-called ETC, we would have had to significantly increase the budget costs. [[of the single tariff network]] Our calculations show that an unjustified increase in the minimum wage will lead to a significant decline in economic growth, an increase in inflation and a decrease in labour motivation. These are the very moments from which we believe that the increase in minimum wages, as well as the increase in wages in general, should be in line with the pace of economic growth, ahead of the rate of economic growth of one to two per cent.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u20	National Deputy Kozlovski, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Basil Nadragha will be next to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u21	Kozlovsky Anatoly Mihajlovich, 133, Mikolayev, Agrarian Party Dear Mikolo Janovich, please tell us why the first reading recorded 235 bracelets and the second reading that your financiers were on the first reading after two hours of the night. And secondly, I would like not to ask today's question, but what will be on Thursday. Why is 600 million dollars not available for the purchase of grain, for the enforcement of the law on grain markets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u22	In preparing the budget for first reading, the Government was based on the existing legislative framework. That's why we've read the extra mechanism for 237 bracelets. Conditionally, everyone with less pay than 237 grivens in the budget, which was presented on first reading, was paid up to 237 grivens. Unfortunately, there was no increase in salaries for budget workers. Because almost all of the resources were spent additionally to raise wages and bring them closer to 237 bracelets. This has led to massive indignation both in labour groups and in trade unions. We have worked in detail on this position with trade unions, with many labour groups, in the Government, with heads of regional administrations, district councils, many mayors and so on. And it was concluded that much better in terms of motivation for work, in terms of higher wages, to restore the ratio and raise wages for all budget workers. That'll be fairer. That is why we have invested the necessary resources in the budget and have made it available to you for second reading. With regard to your second question, I will report the budget and answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u23	Basil Nadrag, National Authority MP, excuse me, People's Choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u24	Vassili Nadrag, Lugansk region. Dear Nikolai Janovich! I don't want to talk about the good, bad, minimum wage and everything. But I came from the Territory today, and I'm a major deputy. Today, in the core budgets, professionals are preparing their small budgets in a calm horror. Because the amounts to be paid to the budgeters in fact eat much more in the individual weight of the projected budgets, the amount of the 2004 budget. And the fact may be that in the 2004 budget, other than wages, not that utilities will not remain, I am not saying that there will be no food left in schools or in hospitals or anything else. I would like to ask you, please, Nikolai Janović, how will the central budget assist or central management assist local budgets so that the increase in the minimum wage does not dampen everything else that local budgets should do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u25	Thank you for asking, in fact, you have just argued that an unjustified increase in the minimum wage would, in fact, lead to the collapse of local budgets. This is what we have taken into account in the consideration of all local budgets. Between the first and second readings, we added a financial resource to the local budgets of 1.9 billion grevens. We believe that this resource will be sufficient to raise wages, to restore the ratios at the minimum wage of 205, and will be sufficient to meet the priority needs of local budgets to pay for medicines, gas, lighting, heating and other payments. We have put in place a number of positions in the State budget that will allow temporary cash balances to be covered when crises arise in local budgets. the resulting cash gaps. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, along with the increase in wages, we will be moving with you next year into a new system of taxation on the income of individuals, on reduced rates of taxation, i.e. a single rate of 13 per cent, and this will actually increase the income of our citizens, including the underprivileged.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u26	Thank you, Mikola Janovich. Have a seat, please. Hara Vasil Georgievovich, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Well, not everyone's off the hook. There's a discussion coming up, dear colleagues, wait. Please, while he's gone. Roman Zvaric. While the reporter is on his way, please proceed with the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u27	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am of the procedure because I am drawing your attention to the very fact that you were drawn to by Alexander Alexander Moroz. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the point is that there is another subject of the legislative initiative, and there are alternative bills. Before the chairman of the profiling committee could speak, the authors of these other bills should speak. I'm one of the authors of those bills. I am insisting on my right as a subject of the legislative initiative: give an opportunity to speak and present alternative bills on this subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, I think we'll be able to determine later. But it's too bad. May I have your attention, please? Calm down, dear fellows! Unfortunately, we have introduced and adopted such a law -- the Budget Code -- that provides for a bill on minimum wages only a government can and does not. And even the bill they tabled has no basis. But then you'll take the floor and talk about your bill. So, colleagues, please. Once again, I say, dear colleagues, I'm going through the budget code. Please read the Codex Budget. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u29	The distinguished colleagues, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour supported the Cabinet of Ministers bill, registration number 4207-2. That's why. May I remind you that the previous Cabinet of Ministers. The 2003 budget was established on a regulatory basis with a minimum wage of 165 grevens, without taking into account the alignment of inter-office salaries. The Government of Janukovic, Victor Fedorovic, has already accepted the minimum wage of 185 dollars after the negotiations, including with our committee, and have agreed, and I stress, to make inter-mission salaries compatible. Despite more than a persevering request and economic justification, the Cabinet of Ministers'arguments for the withdrawal of a minimum salary of 237 dollars from 1 July, we did not agree with him, but only postponed the deadline of 1 December of this year. The Cabinet of Ministers was well founded in this regard. But as is often the case, some factions have been interested and the coalition government has suffered the main pain of the current minimum wage of $237. We have ignored the requirements of article 9 of the Wages Act, by establishing that the minimum wage is determined in the light of the level of economic development, the overall level of average wages, productivity, employment, etc. Dear colleagues! Whoever wanted to knows that this is what happened to us in Ukraine, that since 2000, we have raised the minimum wage every year and have not raised once in a row, we have paid the interdisciplinary salaries. This has led to a minimum wage growth rate that is significantly higher than the average wage growth in Ukraine. For example, the minimum wage has increased by 144 per cent and the average by 119, indicating a significant redistribution of the wage fund in favour of low-skilled labour. A situation had arisen that the hospital doctor had received between 5 and 10 large technical nurses. This trend has led to a lower motivation for highly skilled and complex work. I will only give some examples in the ratio of the minimum wage to the average wage. In 2000, the minimum of 118, the average 156 in education, was 38. In the 10 months 2003, the 329th average, 185th minimum, already stands at $144. In health care, the difference is 21st for 2000 and 85th for the current year. And in culture in general, in 2000 there were minus 2 g's. They had an average salary of 116 bracelets at a minimum of 118. Today, the difference is 83. This is the result of the activities of the Government of Yanukovic and the fulfilment of its obligations. In order to ensure the implementation of a minimum wage of 237 in the 2004 budget, a budget increase of 2.3 million more than the current budget, including 1.5 billion local workers, is foreseen for the implementation of the minimum wage as of 1 December 2004, allowing for an additional payment to those workers who receive less than 237 bracelets. However, more than 5 billion are needed to restore inter-qualificational relationships. A total of 7.3 billion, which unfortunately do not exist in the budget. The Government of Janukovič is concerned that the situation is leading to what was before. And the increase in wages will be limited to low-paid workers, and the remaining high-paying workers will not receive any of this allowance. The Cabinet of Ministers is proposing a real path that will ensure that wages are raised from 1 December, not only for those who receive wages today, 237 bracelets, but for all budget workers without exception. On 1 December and beyond, a minimum wage of 205 bracelets is established and inter-debt salaries are transferred accordingly. And for the project, I do not know how the decision will be taken, with a minimum wage of 237 from 1 November and inter-labour salaries, respectively. Thus, the increase in wages will affect all budget sector workers without exception and restore for the first time in several years the normal ratio of wages between unskilled and highly qualified professionals. The Committee also took into account a very important aspect. It was the Government of Janukovic that Viktor Fedorovic began a tax reform, which many political figures had longed for for many years with tears in their eyes: the corporate income tax was planned for up to 25 per cent, the VAT to 17, and a single 13 per cent income tax. We know that to expect a special increase in taxes in 2004 due to the change in Russia's impossible experience, it will be possible to expect additional revenues in a year. In view of the above, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour requests all members of the people to reject political and pre-election ambitions, love and dislike for the coalition Government of Yanuković and to take a practical step towards raising the standard of living of people. Please support the draft Cabinet of Ministers and accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u30	Yes, questions, dear colleagues. Sign up, please. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for a question to our colleague. One minute. We have a very thorough procedure. Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u31	Fucking Communist faction. Please pass on the word to Gmir. Sergey Gmiri.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u32	Please turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u33	Thank you. We may reject the love or animosity of the Janukovic Government, but it is difficult to reject love or animosity for the people of Ukraine. I believe that what is proposed is in direct conflict with the concern for the people of Ukraine and with the Constitution, since in fact 237 is already an accepted figure and you propose to abolish it. How about that, I have a question. And the second question. That's a lot to say. It's been a long, long time since we've had tariff hikes. You forgive me, the minimum wage is set by the Supreme Council, and the tariff rates are set by the Government. The Supreme Council must carry out its task and the Government must. If he doesn't do it, he needs to be chased. That's it. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u34	Well, first of all, with regard to the interests of the people and the interests of our people with you, I am in favour of taking at least a small step every day in behalf of the people on whose behalf we keep speaking here from the rostrum. Once again, since 2000, we have raised the minimum wage and there has been no funding in the budgets to ensure that there is an increase in workers throughout the vertical tariff network, and therefore the difference between high-skilled and low-wage pay has been found. At five, at ten grevens. Today, as far as the Constitution is concerned, I cannot interpret the Constitution. Wait a second. But I can give my own opinion. Don't yell, I'm not yelling. My own opinion. So, December 1st didn't come and 237 hasn't been received yet. But if we want it to be announced that there will be a minimum wage of 237 since January, but people will not get anything, it will be better than what the Cabinet of Ministers is offering. And with regard to the tariff network, you and I, the distinguished people's deputies, have broken the tariff network, and you and I have broken the previous system, when the minimum wage, we, the minimum wage, were the wages of the first grade. That must be changed, and there are such suggestions from our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u35	Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u36	Your Honor, we understand what you're saying. And probably all the people's deputies in the districts get the most questions from the pay grade. Why do highly qualified doctors today receive a salary almost at the level of an ambulance? The same in schools and at other times. We support this position, the introduction of a tariff network. But I do have that question. Please tell me, was the committee counting, taking into account the proposals made on the Conciliation Council, from which time do you actually move to the new minimum wage of 237 bracelets — in the second half, in the third quarter, in the fourth quarter, or have you calculated such a cabinet?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u37	Thank you for asking. As for the first on salary and tariff grid levels, I'm a union worker myself. And just yesterday, I had the chairmen of the central committees on this issue. They, by the way, supported the Government's proposal to introduce 205 from January and align inter-office salaries. With regard to the calculation of committees, it is difficult for us to say whether that will be the case. But in our view, we might suggest that we postpone the minimum wage period of 237 months from November to September. I think that the Government could consider such a proposal, from September of the month, to introduce a minimum wage of 237 with mandatory wage ratios.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u38	Mikola Noshchenko, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and Hard Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u39	160 constituency, Deafness, Hard Ukraine. Dear Vassil Grigorovich, I want to support you because the day before, I had representatives of the districts, the heads of government, the financial authorities, who asked for a faster tariff system, not to continue the extra mechanism. I have a request for you, please repeat for the hall and for those who listen, how, who and how much the extra mechanism will touch with the transition to the tariff system. Please repeat these numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u40	If we do not agree with the Government's proposal and introduce a minimum wage of 237 as of 1 December, the additional mechanism for those who have less than 237 bracelets will come into force. All the others in the vertical of the tariff, so called today, will not be affected by the tariff grid. Thus, there will be no actual increase in salaries for budgeters, highly qualified teachers, doctors, cultural workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u41	Basil Gabrieluk, please, one last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u42	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Everyone knows that agricultural wages are the lowest in the country. Problems arise during the next increase in wages, the minimum wage in this area. Please tell me, what effect will the increase in the minimum wage in agriculture now have? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u43	It'll be a huge problem for the village at all. You know the situation that in the country today, even the minimum standards that you and I adopt are often not met. And if we take the wage, the minimum wage of 237 bracelets, we'll virtually turn the wages of agriculture into a deaf corner. This is particularly painful for them because they do not have the funds to raise wages, even the minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u44	Thank you. Have a seat, Vasil Georgievich. Peter Alexiovich. We'll do it. Dear colleagues, in order to calm down, we will do it this way. They'll report now, and then the authors of their projects will make their case. I say again, we'll do all these questions, we've already agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u45	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! This is a very good observation when we guarantee that the authors of alternative bills will be able to express their position. Dear colleagues! I would like to begin my introduction with procedural questions, since most of today’s speakers were unable to get the words out of the procedure. First. I would like to categorically deny the statement made by First Vice-Speaker Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk that the budget code seems to provide for any restriction on the introduction of minimum wage changes by the people's deputies. As a person in charge, as head of the Committee on Budgets, I say that there is no such rule in the Budget Code. It's different. I would like to say that for the first time in the Supreme Council procedure today, we have asked a question that is not in order today. And we would have to vote for inclusion in the agenda before today, and then we would have to get the conclusions of the Scientific, Legal, Committee, and then we would have to talk about it in fact. And I am convinced that such a disgrace to the procedure can affect the quality of decision-making for all of you, dear colleagues. Question three. I'm paying attention, folks, to the fact that we don't want to discuss the minimum wage here, I don't want to call the faction because you'll be ashamed of it. Third question, by procedure. Dear colleagues, introducing the budget law, amending the budget according to the Budget Code, should be balanced, that is, we have, if the government proposes to cut the minimum wage, we have an economy of expenditure, and these costs should be directed towards other purposes than pay. This bill is not balanced and cannot be considered in accordance with the Budget Code. The fourth position, in accordance with the Constitution, in addition to limiting the constitutional rights of citizens, we have a body of laws, because the Minimum Wages Act 2003, which is in force and will be in effect, even if the Supreme Council passed a government bill, would not be in line with the Law on Government Budget Change. And this is the government's belt, because as of December 1, every citizen of Ukraine, who will not be paid the salary of 237 dollars, has the right to do so, and will certainly do so, and will be right, will go to court, and in court will require any form of property either from the local or the state budget for 237 dollars. This bill is guaranteed to violate both article 22 and article 43 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and in the absence of time, I have no opportunity to read them. I'm sure if we had the opportunity to sound science-expert law enforcement, that would be guaranteed. In addition, our honourable deputies’ references to the alleged changes to the Budget Code and some other legislative acts allow this to be done. The rule of law reads, "Resizes of minimum wage by other laws and regulations are valid only after amendments to the State Budget Act." So you have to make two laws at the same time. There is no way to change the position by changing the State Budget Act. This law does not conform to the Law of Ukraine. And I would like, my fellow Members, to make it clear that in 2003, the Law on Minimum Wages was voted by the absolute majority of the national MPs, all the factions of the majority. This law was accepted by the government, this law was signed by the President. And these are the commitments that the parliamentary majority have assumed that they are capable of fulfilling these obligations to the people. If these obligations are to be avoided today, one thing is that they need to be classified as impossible, incapacitated, and retired. Last one. There's a letter from the President to the Supreme Council in 2003. The message clearly states that the arguments referred to by the First Deputy Prime Minister that we today have a preliminary pace in comparison with GDP should increase the minimum wage. Dear colleagues, and last of all, resources. There was a meeting of the Conciliation Council. At a meeting of the Conciliation Council of factions after we have declared a list of non-governmental incomes, the list of incomes provided for in Bill 4001, which is not included in the State Budget, we are assured that we will be able to implement a minimum wage of 237. I'd like to say to my colleague Harry, by establishing a relationship. You don't have to misinformation the national MPs and molest us for our relationship. There's money for the ratio in the budget. And our shared responsibility will be to those who today can take responsibility for their decision and cancel the minimum wage, which means only one thing that you take away from the most disadvantaged people is $27. I don't want to say it's just because you're on these 237ths or 205s alone, you're not going to live, so easy to make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u46	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. Peter Alexiyovich, return to the rostrum. Please sign up for the question, or he made such a fiery statement that he did. Please, five minutes of Assadchev, Gavriluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u47	Thank you. Dear Peter Alexiyovich, I will ask you questions and perhaps answer them on my own. Let us mention, dear friends, the 2003 budget. Mikola Janovich Azarov came to us and said, "More than 47 billion dollars, We're not going to collect." And the committee said, "54th." Today, the budget is 53 billion dollars. And Azarov screams that he's doing it. No, Azarov, your budget for the 47th you offered us here. What happened today? You see what was adopted in the first reading, 60.8 is on the old gross product, it's on the conservative scenario. And today they're adding almost 10 billion GDP. And no money in the budget. So where is this money going to go? And they will go to bribe those who vote today for cancelling the minimum wage. And I ask you, Peter Alexiyovich, to confirm this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u48	Dear Valery Mikhailovich, I can say quite professionally that the only achievement of an active government that they can put before a report is the real budget. The issue in agriculture was ruined. The issue of VAT resolution has failed, and so far, each of you, regardless of the majority and minority, knows that today VAT is a return to the criminality of funds that have never entered the state budget. It's a factor that's holding the economy back. The only question of objectivity is the state budget. The Council’s objectivity should be said that at that time, Mikola Janović Azarov had the courage to take responsibility and, along with the budget committee, to agree on the income figures of the state budget. That's why we have a budget of 54 billion today. If that were not the case, I assure you, the budget would have been implemented at 47 billion. This time, however, there is no courage or opportunity to ask questions. The real budget for 2004 should be at least 65 billion. And by our decision today, we're just stealing billions of dollars from the government budget. Think of the responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u49	Please, Gabrieluk, follow him, Pehota.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u50	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Peter Alexievich, please tell me why you're talking today about your opposition to raising inter-tariff visions? In its consideration of the preparation of the budget for second reading, the People's Government's Deputy Group believes that inter-tariff connotations must in any event be raised. That's the first question. And if you think there's money like that, please tell me where to take it, and if there are options, let's introduce a bill, and then we'll keep it at 237 with contemplation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u51	Thank you so much. I'm catching you up, and I'm saying this bill has been tabled. And my position is clearly stated in the conclusions of the Supreme Council, which was supported by the Supreme Council's ruling, to all who sit in this room. And in these conclusions, Honorary colleague Gabrieluk, there is a minimum wage of 237. The government’s mandate to take full account of the budgetary committee’s findings in terms of inter-tariff ratios. Today, at the meeting of the Conciliation Board, we have offered entirely questions and sources that make up a total of 6 billion dollars. We're ready for a professional conversation, which unfortunately is not possible today for essentially political reasons on the budget committee, but I assure you, just as I have assured and placed my political honour on it, that just as there are 54 billion in this budget, there are 65 billion in this year's budget. I wouldn't want to talk about it today, maybe those who participated in the Conciliation Council, but I'm going to convince you that it was said that we understand that the 237 in the State Budget is or can be found, but it's going to have other effects on the economy and then we'll have problems there. So, in charge of the budget, all I can do is sign off on the fact that the honourable people's deputies, the costs of the 237 in the State Budget, are guaranteed. It's even at the current level of Tinnitus when we have half the economy working in the shadows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u52	Vladimir Julius Pehota, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u53	Dear Peter Alexiyovich, it is now clear that you are adding as a rostrum, but as a specialist you are losing. And there is a need for objectivity in the council to say that not everyone in the budget committee shares your views today. Most people need a real, weighed position on the increase in real wages, and populism and politics related to the election of the President need to be postponed. I have a question for you. Please tell us the consequences of what you are promoting. Unemployment, inflation, and so forth. Open up, tell people the truth, you don't have to do it out loud. Tell the truth to the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u54	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Juliusovich. I answer that, unfortunately, because of the brutal interference with the budget committee, the budgetary committee on the State Budget issue was turned into a political rather than professional consideration. But I assure you that to date the resources that have been found and which have been confirmed by the government under the State Budget are carried out through the budget committee, approved and endorsed by the conclusions that we supported in the first reading. At the same time, Reverend Vladimir Juliusovich, where were we sincere? At a time when the vote was consciously in favour of setting a minimum wage of 237, or now that we are dulling our eyes, we are trying to abolish these legislative acts. [[There's your personal voice.]] I'm convincing and ready to prove to each of you that every source proposed by the Budget Committee and where there is a resource agreed with the government is absolutely real. And today it is up to you, your esteemed colleagues, that the citizens of Ukraine will have the salary of 237 in five days, for you will deprive them of this opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u55	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich, please sit down. Dear colleagues, please sit down. Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. There are authors of alternative bills. Let's give them a chance to report and get to the discussion. Three minutes. Please, Leonid Vernigore. And get Tarasyuk Boris ready. Will It Be From the Authors? Yuri Klukkowski will be there.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u56	Honorable MPs, distinguished voters! Leonid Vernigore, Socialist faction. I'd like to ask all the deputies present in this room. You and I have either been deceived by the government or by self-deception for 237 dollars, a minimum wage since December 1st of the year. Moreover, on the committee’s professional and leading committees, including you, Comrade Hara, have urged everyone to maintain just that amount of minimum wage. It's remarkable that in a budget that we didn't add 2.5 billion dollars, it was 237 dollars minimum by 1 July of the following year. Now that $2.5 billion has been added to the budget, namely $600 million for the increase in the salaries of the Force, 200 million for the maintenance of the President's Administration, 100 million for Iraq, 100 million for the President's Medical and Sanitation Department, now suddenly we don't have enough $237 for our employees. I want to ask you too, Mikolo Janovich. Well, you've got us on our faction, you've been on our committee in the spring, and you've said, well, let's do it because we don't have the opportunity to pay 237 from March of the month, let's do it for the sufferer, as you said, by December 1st. We suffered. Now you convince people that they should suffer another year. And I don't think we're going to go too far with such a lie. Then I would like to propose to you, as the author and as the subject of the legislative initiative, a law that has been introduced to the Supreme Council in the established order by Vernighor, Moroz, Semenyuk, Baranowski on setting the minimum wage for 2004. Article 1 Set a minimum wage of 305 dollars from 1 July 2004 and a monthly wage of 358 dollars from 1 December 2004 to 358. Similarly, the Supreme Council in the first independent Ukrainian history compares and implements the constitutional rule that the minimum wage should be equal to the minimum wage. Therefore, according to article 2 by May 1, 2004, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has approved an additional grant to local budgets to raise the minimum wage for budget workers. I think it's going to be an addition to the budget and an addition to the minimum wage for people to be able to buy at the grocery store 1.5-2 times the price of bread. This is the only way we will save our Ukraine, and that is the only way we will not start the famine in 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u57	Yuri Klukkowski, please. This is about Project 4207-3.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, the bill that I have the honour to present with me, which was introduced by Boris Tarasyuk, Hennadi Udovenko and Roman Zvaric, is the result of the deep concern of the National Movement of Ukraine as an integral part of Victor Yushchenk's "Our Ukraine" initiative, an unprecedented initiative of the Government to reduce the legal approval of the minimum wage of Ukrainian citizens. I want to remind you that when the law was passed on 1 December of this year, the minimum wage rate of 237 dollars of the Supreme Council had already gone to a meeting of the Government, because it was initially proposed to introduce this level since 1 July. So once the government has used the reserve. I would like to remind you that article 22 of the Constitution prohibits the adoption of laws that reduce the scope of existing citizens' rights not only political but also socio-economically, which undoubtedly include the minimum wage. In this regard, I would like to say that the argument that the minimum wage should go hand in hand with the growth of the gross domestic product is probably not bad. But I wanted to point out that I would like to see all the wages so high. Today we are given this document by the Court of Auditors, and I read from it: " In 2002, compared to 2001, the Cabinet of Ministers increased by 2.5 percent and the rate paid by 33.7 percent. The employees of the financial and fiscal authorities were paid for their work in 2002 for 154. Five million dollars more than last year. Please tell us, and how much more is paid for the work of teachers, health workers, other budgetary areas, and so we note as positive the fact that at last a year after the approval of the government’s programme of activities, the government mentions the need to restore the relationship between positions. But on what basis? And that's why our project offers a compromise between what we have today and what the government is offering. It is not possible to speak in accordance with the Constitution about the reduction in wages. The minimum wage should be from December 1, 237. However, the re-establishment of inter-position ratios is very necessary, and that's why we're proposing from January 1st to restore these inter-position ratios from the calculation of the minimum wage of 237 dollars. And we fully trust the government's calculations that since January 1, 2005, the minimum wage has to be 262 dollars. That's what we're talking about. And I am convinced that all those who do not speak want to live better in reality, so that they do not starve, that their increase in the price of bread does not reflect on health and survival, will vote for our offer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u59	Yes, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Please state the name of the national MPs who are registered. What? One minute, don't scream, please. Peter Mikolaiovich, this is a draft decree, not a draft law. We're discussing a draft ruling. We're currently discussing a draft law, and you have a draft decree, and we can't vote for it, unfortunately. Do you understand how? So the draft decrees you, not the draft law. Please. We, dear fellows, go by the record. Please explain the records of the national MPs. We're going through records, not factions. Olga Hinzburg, please, the Communist faction. Get ready for Yushchenko Viktor Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u60	Hinzburg, Communist faction, 161st constituency. I am so honored to start discussing such a complex matter. And would you start by saying that how can you vote? On the other hand, heads of state and district administrations are asked: "Don't support that minimum wage because we don't have a reserve." The people who chose me, for example, say, "Well, how do you live, Olga Petrovno, for this money, tell me? At least 353 bracelets, and you give, 237 you don't give, you only give 200. What should I minus?".. And if you and I had the courage to say, "Not in the Supreme Council, let's settle this issue, but in the district, each one of us." You go out to the county, you gather people, and of course, people come to this kind of business where they really don't have anything to live for. And let's vote in the hall. For what kind of salary would these people vote for, for example, my 200,000 voters, and say, "Do you, my representative in the Supreme Council, have the right to choose or not?".. I, for example, have no right to choose. I only have one job. And I don't have either the left or the right, or I respect Mikola Janovich, or I don't, I just have to do what my voters told me to do, because this is where they chose me. And when I come forward and make my proposals, for example, I would agree if we could accept with you the minimum wage that the government is offering us. But at the same time, let's make 30 copies of bread, let's do community services like they used to be in Soviet times, let's not take money from people for treatment, let's not take it. And then they say, "Yeah, we're going to run out of 132 Soviet rubles, we're going to live in peace." But I'm worried about something else in this room. Here the reverend spoke out of this rostrum as a strong advocate of today’s minimum wage. One thing I want to say is that the moral right to stand on this stand and protect the people or protect the minimum wage is only for communists and socialists. Others today. I wanted to ask the Reverend Dusty. Please tell me, don't you have a random vote for other budgets? Maybe you have a vote, prints for other budgets: 2003, 2002, 2001 Earth Code? Do you have that vote? And I'm standing here saying that for a minimum wage today, I'm saying that it should be at the minimum wage. But when you say, today, you can get political points for yourself, just for that, you have to look back, you've put the base on what we're doing today in 10 years. You let her down, and today you want to do it for someone else to decide. And that's a very political question. I don't think of the whole faction, because it's going to be spoken by the leader, and I'm saying from my district that the problem is really going to be on the shoulders of our local authorities. But for that, for example, if there's a marijuana plant, there's no problem at the minimum wage, if there's any other business, there's no problem. This is a problem of the minimum wage of the budget and of those businesses that work poorly. We have to take today who misappropriated this money, from whom we can take it. And from this rostrum, say that these, these, these enterprises didn't add money, and on their shoulders is this guilt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u61	Thank you. Please calm down. Powder, replica. And the word is Yushchenko Viktor Andriyovich. Prepare Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u62	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I really had a bearing on the current budget in 2003, when we increased the figures from 42 billion to 54 billion. Whether it has enabled the minimum wage to be increased, not by word, but by deed. And to this day, all the voters who receive their wages can experience it. So, if it wasn't for the talks of the last 10 years, but for real steps, we would have a European standard of living by now, if we were to grow that much every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u63	Thank you. Please, Victor Andriyovich, prepare Anatolia Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u64	Dear friends, dear colleagues! I am convinced that we are witnessing social crime in this country today. I am convinced that no one will care about the information that for the first time in 13 years of Ukrainian independence, the Ukrainian government is proposing to reduce the minimum wage from 237, as required by the law, to 205. What's surprising, dear friends? When I hear here a lecture on the economy and the economy of growth, the concern expressed by my fellow national MPs, that, as if, if there was a large salary in people, it was bad for everyone and, above all, for the economy. Dear friends! Learn one thing. The economy of growth exists only when the formed consumer is a paid, high - paying consumer. If you look at the Ukrainian salary today, it's an average of 85 dollars, or 2.5 times lower than in Russia. The salary in Belarus is $115, we have 85. Dear friends! That's not what we're doing. Today, the Ukrainian’s minimum wage is 40 percent lower than the minimum wage. What are we thinking? What's the upper limit that's dangerous to the economy today? So it would be absolutely right to talk about a series of things. There is a bill on 237, voted by a majority including, have the honour to answer for it, and accept that in the draft budget for 2004 as a basis, as was done in the first reading. The only controversy in this room that I think is in the plane -- whether there is enough resources for this purpose or not. If we agree that from December 1st of this year, the minimum wage will be 237 and from the second half of 2004 it will be subject to tariffs, the price of this issue will be 5 billion dollars. Please write this number down, 5 billion dollars. Sources. The sources are very simple. Between the first and second readings that have taken place in the last 30 days, the nation’s gross product has been viewed as an increase of 9.6 billion dollars. This represents a response to 3 billion additional budget concessions. Part two. The budget deficit in these 30 days suggests that the government increase by another 1 billion. It's already 4 billion. Plus 1 billion are proposals that apply to Bill 4001 "Extension of the Tax Base." That's 5 billion. 800 million is capital investment; 540 million is a road fund, it's a plus road fund. Dear friends! Are we doing this or not? You can easily find 7 billion without leaving this room to raise. To introduce the minimum wage of 237 out of 1 December. That's why we have a proposition. If you don't want to be sung by an anaphema in all churches, you have to reject the proposal and not support the government's project to lower the minimum wage from 237 to 205 and take the basis for a project that envisions the introduction of 237 from 1 December this year and the subsequent tariff. Then it will be honest with both the teacher and the officer and the medic and the miner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u65	Anatoly Frost. The Communist faction hands over the right to speak to Peter Simonek. Get ready for Boris Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u66	Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to protect Olga Petrovna Ginsburg, because she was absolutely right to say that a very short memory is in the hands of some of our colleagues. When the budget of 2 years ago covered the practical operation or operation of 30 laws, which left 13 million Ukrainian citizens without legal benefits. That is why she rightly said so. Next. I would like to ask your attention, distinguished people's deputies, and draw him to the next. In my view, minimum wages are an integral indicator of the State's relationship to the standard of living of everyone. A balanced budget is only relevant when it allows for a balanced budget for each family. That's what we have to come up with. But it is not the budgetary balance that should be mentioned, but its socio-economic balance. Above all, the socio-economic balance for each family, I would like to stress once again. It is understood by most of our constituents as increasing the income of each family and increasing the well-being and standard of living of the people as a whole and of each of our citizens. The minimum wage is a minimum opportunity and not only to restore the workforce of the worker, but also to feed one child in order to raise them. These are the criteria that must be followed today, determining the minimum wage. The fact that we have reached 40 per cent of the unemployment rate due to the policies of Ukraine over the past 12 years is also an aggravating factor. It is also a dissuasive circumstance that the flow of labour from Ukraine leads to the fact that payments to the so-called income tax are made outside Ukraine. We Communists believe that the minimum wage should provide an opportunity to have a living basket. That's what's at least the main thing about minimum wage. That is, the minimum wage must be consistently aligned with the subsistence minimum in order for a person to be able to feed at least his or her family and child at that level of wage. We are talking about this because we understand that the minimum wage and the result of this level are the same tuberculosis and various epidemics in our country. A man is incapable of self-sustaining. Minimum wages and average wages are to be provided for family development, rest, education, treatment. Mr. Hara advocates the Cabinet of Ministers. I wish the Cabinet of Ministers and Mr. Hare himself to live only on this minimum wage. Then there would be a different understanding of both the level of wages and the level of pensions. The minimum wage deals with the welfare of the family, as it is regulated, the Government does not control the rise in prices and tariffs. And right here, I'm sorry, people's deputies, the dog's trapped. You can talk about the minimum wage today, and you can call it different numbers, but until the government regulates the prices of bread, food and tariffs, nothing will really give. And in closing, I would like to propose the following. That is, respectable comrades are essentially in the matter of redistribution from the rich to the poor, what is now being stolen from the poor through the minimum wage and the shadow economy. The Communist faction proposes to set minimum wage at the minimum subsistence level. And for that, she offered 17, almost $18 billion in income. Therefore, we propose objectivity in order to consider our ruling and to align the minimum wage with the minimum wage. Then it will be fair to our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u67	Boris Bespaliy, faction of our Ukraine, prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u68	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the legal and more specifically antilegal aspects of the situation have already been discussed by both the head of the Committee on Budgets, Victor Yushchenko, and other deputies. This also proved to be a profile for something other than the Committee on Budgets, but this is quite different, because the already voted laws on minimum wage, which sets 237 bracelets from December 1, are ignored, and adopted in the first reading of the budget, where 237 dollars are also ignored. And it also turns out that the balance is going to be broken, and 10 billion are going to disappear somewhere, I think. And I think the government, in this case, is absolutely consciously proposing a conflict of laws, and it's completely consciously preparing a normative basis for the dissipation of state funds. It's both unconstitutional and unprecedented. And I have the impression that the government has lost its self-preservation instinct. I've had to notice a few times, and in this respect, I think it's very vivid in this situation and the shared moments that we have from the government, and the individual moments. The common ground is that we, and the government, are convinced that the thief should sit. Only they think they're in parliament, and we think they're in prison. And cynicism is particularly evident in the fact that it unfolds in the background of rising prices for bread, which automatically causes higher prices for food products, which increases the consumer basket, which is automatically expected to increase the cost of living. So it would really be appropriate and logical to ask the question of viewing the minimum wage, but not in terms of reducing it, but in terms of increasing it. Victor Andryovich Yushchenko and other deputies spoke about the resources from where it could be obtained. I would also like to point out that, according to the First Vice Prime Minister himself, we have a 50 percent tinted economy. Reduce tinnitus, stop stealing at least ten percent less, at least five billion more. And there's more. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, the day after tomorrow, on Thursday, November 27, there will be a budget adoption. And all Ukrainian citizens have the opportunity under the walls of the Supreme Council to express their support for the government's intention to reduce their wages and go into their pockets: to raise their prices for bread and so on. So to support the position of "Our Ukraine" and our other colleagues is 237 bracelets from January 1st, it's to regulate the inter-task ratios of the same date. This is an increase in the real welfare of the people. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u69	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Timoshenko will perform instead of the School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u70	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! The leader of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Peter Simonenko, declared our position to be a minimum wage of 356 dollars. And where to find a man who's 17 billion dollars, we know more than that, and we've talked about this over and over and over and over again. What people say when you come from the Teremka-1 microregion, from one of Kiev’s most remote microregions to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm met by these poor people and they're asking me what's going to happen today, and they're giving me orders to ask something. And today I was given this command: "Juriy Petrovich, ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine whether he paid for the treatment of our Ukrainian citizen, the Honourable President, Kuchma Leonid Danilovich. And how much did he pay for the treatment, the linen and so on and so forth." The questions are rhetorical, but over and over again people are asking who will help us pay for residential services. In that house where I live, almost one third owes 3, 4 to 6,000 dollars, and they're offered to restructure, and out of these pitiful pensions and wages, 10 or 15 dollars is more to pay. What happens to bread, the price of bread, is no longer to be said. So I'd like to propose to all of the majority who shed crocodile tears about what would be the breach of the tariff ratio in the budgetary institutions, and I propose that we end up casting crocodile tears to those representatives of the bourgeois opposition that came to me right here: remember if it isn't your institutions, or if it's your corporations that have wages over a thousand dollars -- that's also the Crucifixion, that's the Crimson Coastal, that's also the Crucifixion. So let's be honest and honest with the people of Ukraine, and let's say that if we get into that abyss, let's go out together and not let those who have 205 or 237 die. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u71	Instead of Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko has the floor. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u72	Julia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, I'd like to see about 4-5 million people now who are listening to the radio broadcast of the Supreme Council simply realize that the question that we are discussing concerns virtually every human being, because whether we set today a minimum wage of 237 dollars, as proposed by all the healthy deputies in the Supreme Council Hall, or set 205 minimum wage, as proposed by Mr. Azarov, who, by the way, has disappeared from the government bed, depends on how the salaries of every industrial worker, employee, every villager will be paid and budget employee, depending on how the wages will be formed. And that also depends on the level of pensions, because the more the wage fund, the more the pension fund, and as a result, we can significantly increase the size of the pension. I want to remind you that 237 laws have been in force since last year, from the beginning. And in 2003, MPs denied people the right to receive a normal salary. It's the same question again today. And I think if Mr. Azarov says there's no funds of 237, I have a direct question to him. Mr. Azarov, tell me, and when you introduced a budget bill a few weeks ago where you had 237 minimum wage and a balanced budget, what else did you have? Did you cheat on the Supreme Council and say that all the ratios are accounted for, and now you're saying there's no funds? What changed in two weeks? In two weeks, only one change has been made: to review the macroeconomic indicator of the country’s gross product by 10 billion. Today, the gross domestic product budget is 27 percent, 27.6 percent, if correct. This means that out of these 10 billion 3 billion are automatically born on the income side. Dear colleagues, well, why us, people who clearly know what we're doing, say there's no money?Oh, my God! We need 6 and a half billion to do that. We're covering 3 billion by increasing gross domestic product, 3 and a half billion by now in the budget, because we're increasing from 185 to 205. So the costs are clearly there. And I'm just asking you all to understand that today's revised budget expenditure is only for the President's 2004 re-election campaign. And the majority MPs have to understand clearly that they have to go back to the county -- and we have to be honest with the people in sight. And before Peter Dustenk. I really thank him for doing such a good job. But I want to remind Peter Prashenko that last year our faction created a large working group and put in a balanced, professionally calculated budget project where the 237th minimum wage has already been taken into account. So I'm asking you not to waste your time putting to the vote, so we can feel what kind of deputy the Supreme Council has to confess to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u73	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Alexander Frost instead of Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u74	The Party of Protectors of the Country, the Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Honorable national MPs, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, do not allow the adoption of new laws to narrow down the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms of citizens. The adoption of any draft Ukrainian law that reduces the minimum wage by at least one penny will narrow down these rights, which are provided for in article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies and Honorable People of Ukraine! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! You didn't say a word today, you put in a draft law today that wasn't included in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Law on Changes to the State Budget. Moreover, you have given the right to speak on this matter, that is, not legally, to speak here to Mikola Janovich Azarov. He had no right to speak here today, no right to speak today, and no right to answer questions. And you didn't let me speak out of motive, you just shut your mouth, but you can't do that, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Now, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, not only is the day in order, there is no conclusion. Hara is acting on behalf of the Act amending the State Budget Act. Your Honor, this is manifest lawlessness! Without the Committee on Budgets, this is the subject. In all lands, however, only opposition must control such committees. And you know, you've played the role of nerds, so I ask you, where is the position of the unions? What do you agree with, respected trade unions, the destruction of the people of Ukraine? So I want to ask you. Where did the Georgian events begin? And I'm going to say, they started with the attack on people's rights. And what you're doing now, Mr. Azarov, is not an attack on human rights. I want to show you how many articles you wrote here to lose, to admit, to stop for 2004. What's that? The laws on education, health care, and all benefits. Everything's stopped, everything's done. And today I want to go to the miners that Mr. Renat is organizing here to help Mr. Janukovich. Instead of diapers, used diapers, I want to turn around. "Our Ukraine" is going to demand an increase of 30 percent of what is provided to miners, which is 5.2 billion. And don't fool people, and don't speculate about it. And I want to say to Mr. Azarov, as they say in Odessa, "What is the ultimate impotence?" - This is the person who convinces during the midterm, why is the lack of erection better than its presence?" So, during the midterm, you explained to us that 205 is better than 237. This Government is therefore the Government of Endangered Impotences.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u75	Alexander Moroz, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u76	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! Of course, I find it difficult to speak after the emotions of Yuri Anatolyovich. I just want to ask Vladimir Mikhailovich, despite the sharpness of the discussions that are going on today, there isn't much written down, let's give everyone a chance to speak. It won't be a pity. I've only just received an ambassador from a foreign state. She says, "What's going on in there, I can't understand how it can be?" I explain the point, and then I see that it's hard to explain, because in order to understand what's going on in Ukraine, we need to understand the whole system of governance. As it turns out, this is how it works when the law on amending this year’s budget sets out parameters and becomes available to the budget next year. This is unacceptable in principle. This does not allow the budget code, does not allow a whole series of laws. And this is one of the arguments why this law can be unacceptable cannot be accepted by the Supreme Council. Now we've spent three hours, Vladimir Mikhailovich in the office, discussing the entire colossal conflict that has arisen now. What Is Revealed? The income part of the budget has increased under pressure from parliament, its factions and government-led budget opportunities. And all of a sudden, it turns out that this amount can't be taken into account in any way in the root of the budget, the minimum wage. So I have no argument to explain to people to explain to the teacher who comes to work and gets 230 wages today, and now, after these amendments proposed by the government, maybe one day he'll get 240, how do I get him to end it? How can a professor, getting 540 bracelets today, carry "eternal and bright" into the souls of the students and give them his knowledge. And then we're indignant about why students and parents have to pay and keep the knots and so on and so forth. During our meeting with the Supreme Council, we called specific figures where you could take money even beyond the parameters offered by the Cabinet of Ministers, or more faithfully within them. 500 million to raise. Half a billion dollars to raise the wages of the force, half a billion of the money that you've distributed around the district where you represent it. [[I'm talking to the majority!]] represented by the electorate. Don't fall for this political bribe! You don't have to do that. There's already a billion to cover intertariff breaks for two months. So it turns out that you can enter intertariff bursts not in full on March 1st, as the Cabinet of Ministers suggests, but on January 1st. I mean, here's the parameters. The possibilities are enough. And we have to say that the increase in salary is also an increase in the pension fund, and we have 15 million pensioners waiting when we can finally make it through this pension, which is today a measurable one. So I'm convinced that we should now consider the unacceptableness of this document, find opportunities for the government and the committees to propose an option that does not lead to a reduction in the minimum wage. In the end, for all of this to happen, you have to get the economy out of the shadows, just to put it down, you have to steal less. There's money in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, we have several drafts of the Supreme Council's Inadmissibility Orders. Dear colleagues, we're running out of time. In accordance with the Rules, we must put to the vote the first draft on non-admissibility. Pinzenik Victor, please argue with the draft of your decision on inadmissibility, because all other colleagues have already spoken. Then we'll give the line, right before the vote. Now, now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, we have come up with a draft decree on the inadmissibility of a decision to reduce the minimum wage from 237 to 205 dollars. An interesting metamorphosis took place with the budget. The first reading of the project contained a standard of 237 after the government’s completion, it dropped to 205 dollars. This is in direct contravention of the Constitution, article 22 of the Constitution prohibits narrowing the content and scope of citizens’ rights and freedoms. But I took note of the economic side of the matter. It's said that there's not enough money for that. I'll call it the price of the question. In order to introduce a minimum wage of 237 dollars to restore intertariff ratios in the salaries of doctors, teachers, and other budgeters, it takes 3 billion dollars. 1.8 billion -- education, 800 million medicine, and 400 million culture. In fact, this figure is lower because 13 percent of tax returns immediately to the budget. In addition, teachers and doctors immediately take the money into the economy. 20 percent returns as VAT. The price of the minimum wage is 2.2 billion dollars. Let me draw attention to another situation. The increase in gross domestic product is almost 10 billion compared to 1 in reading. That's three billion dollars of extra revenue. And I want to say another interesting point. During the nine months of this year, the government received 30 percent of the gross domestic product to the budget. The draft budget provides for revenue of 27.6. Please tell me, who is going to declare war on Ukraine? What a natural disaster will befall Ukraine that the budget’s income falls by 2.5 percent of GDP. There is one objective factor that the government can draw attention to - 500 million dollars of income loss from the citizen’s income tax. But that's just 0.2 percent. In fact, compared to today’s hidden income level, there are 6.5 billion dollars in the budget. As an economist, I'm saying that there's enough money in the budget to solve the minimum wage issue with the tariff of January 1st next year. And I urge my fellow MPs not to vote in favour of this cynical infamous decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u79	Basil Hara, please. Dear colleagues, one minute. Hara, microphone, please. Then I'll ask the First Vice Prime Minister to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u80	Considering what they called me five times, Vladimir Mikhailovich, my last name, I have five minutes. I'd like to have a few moments with you. First. I'm asking the voters to understand what this is all about. If we do not accept the offer of the Cabinet of Ministers, the increase in wages will only affect those who have wages below 237 bracelets. The rest will remain out of salary hikes. Everything else that's been said in this room is political advertising, and you've heard it well. Second. What is it? We took the minimum wage in a $185 package of bracelets from January 1st. The minimum wage is now 237 from 1 December to 1 January 2004. Third. From the rostrum, you can talk about any amount in the budget that you find -- a billion, three, five, ten. You can lose your mind for that amount of money. But desire and opportunity must be measured. Fourth. I can't help but name Petra Alexeievich Prashenko as the minimum wage and for the people. But I would like to tell you that the proposal of our Committee on Social Policy and Labour, and in the 2003 budget and the 2004 draft budget, has not been accepted by the Committee. We have proposed, in the 2004 draft budget, one and a half billion for social needs. And the last. There are very few burning things, very few practical steps. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour may take small but realistic steps to raise wages. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u81	Thank you. Please, Mikola Janovich. There's gonna be a line, I've announced that the honourable colleagues are already on the show. There's gonna be a lineup. Just calm down. It'll be all right. Mobilize to vote better. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u82	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! It was very easy to name numbers, and given that we have a lot of radio listeners, we have to be clear. It was said that the budget that was considered at the end of last year and, on the proposal of the Budget Committee, was supposed to be completely realistic, we should not forget that, because of the Government's insistence, we had indeed adopted the budget in real terms. But it's not 55 billion dollars in revenue, and it's not 54 billion, and so far we're going to have as much as the government has offered and not one million more. That is why the Government has demonstrated this year that it has the ability and ability to carry out its tasks. It promised to raise the salary by 32 per cent and increased it. I answer the question of why the Government proposed 237 on first reading. I've already told you because that's what the law was. We have offered an additional mechanism, and you are well aware of that. We have invested a resource that would raise wages only for low-paid workers to 239 bracelets and no more. This would lead to the failure of the country to raise the necessary wage in the budget area, and the Government's courage is, and the policy is, to tell the truth, to rely on real resources and to make real progress in improving social protection for the population. We have done so in the budget: 52 per cent of the budget has social objectives; for the first time, more than 16 billion will be allocated to education; huge amounts will go to health; social protection; and social protection. And already this year, we are planning to fully settle all debts in the social sphere, wages. And these are the realities we talked about and will talk about.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, I'm betting on the vote on the inadmissibility. May I have your attention, please? Calm down, don't block. On the inadmissibility of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2003. About the inadmissibility, I'm the first to put it to the vote. So you guys, I don't see anything, so what am I going to see? Well, I can't see. Calm down. For -204. Pomegranate replica, please. The factions. Replica, please speak. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to direct me all: one shouts "rape", the other shout "read." Come on, come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u84	Dear Vassil Grigorovich, you have referred to me because it seems that the budget committee did not take into account the position expressed by the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. I am ashamed that, for the first time in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism, the committee you lead under your leadership, the committee that bears the name "social policy and work" did not support a decision that prohibits the reduction of minimum wage. You went to Parliament on the Communist list, you represent the people who voted for the Communist Party. Imagine who you now picture, and is this the position of the Communist Party voters?Oh, my God! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm putting the draft number 4207 to the vote as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. For - 235 The factions, please. Why are there microphones, respected colleagues? Why break them? Once again, the question is closed -- then the break is announced. Calm down! I'm not breaking the Rules! Well, calm down, please! Yes, dear fellows, calm down. Decision taken. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work schedule on Wednesday, please.
