ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like your honors to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:17]] Registered -426 There are 426 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Mikola Tomenka. Let us welcome him and wish him every success. In accordance with the Rules today, we make decisions. You have a list of issues that we need to make a decision about. From Yuri Lucenko's procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u2	Honorable MPs, Your Honor Chairman. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a question for you. Please explain to me why, at the very beginning of the session, there is once again a chapter to return to previously unsupported issues? How long can this meatball go on? How many of us are going to publish the ideas that someone, lobbyists, will need? And question number two. The same chapter contains a draft decree on the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry, one on two pages — two more. Why is this committee more important to you than those two? Explain to me. If so, let us all vote together. I don't understand these priorities, and I don't understand why they're being pushed down once in a row by votes rejected by a session.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u3	Right. Dear colleagues, let me explain to you the first question of draft law number 4001. It's not my personal decision or my colleagues' decision, it was the Conciliation Council. We'll go to him, the government wants to go back to that question after 16 hours. Then we're going to define, let's make thoughts about that. As for the special or whatever it's called, right now, one minute, about the commission, it's also a decision of the Conciliation Board, not my personal decision. I say again, this is a decision of the Conciliation Council, not my personal decision. If you will. Rudzkowski, please. I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u4	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, NAK Naftogaz Ukraine. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, the decision to set up a commission of inquiry for NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, has also been made by the Comparative Council. Not this one. Last week. So we should put them next to us, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u5	Now I'm going to ask Adam Ivanovich to find these documents. Let's put it, for God's sake, let's take it down. Incorruptible, then Assadchev, then Gabrieluk, and we'll work. You've got work to do, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u6	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block, "Our Ukraine." Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the decision of the Conciliation Council, they are counseling. The schedule for a specific meeting is made up of the Head of the Supreme Council. And about order. If there is even a decision of the Conciliation Council on inclusion, it is logical that uniform questions about the order of their consideration should be taken together, as Lucenko logically put it, that is, the commission of inquiry, all in turn, not selectively. And one more question. That's the first question, and I think that's very good law-abiding by the Ukrainian MP Vasiliev, who's elected as deputy, but we have other similar situations. I think it's also logical to look at them all around, whether they're conscious or less aware of individual MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u7	Valerius Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u8	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, even if the Conciliation Council has advised you, you have withdrawn this bill. So he can't go to the second reading. Then this bill 4001 is not at all what was on the second reading last time. This is where the new budget, which you just signed, is already being changed. There was no such thing. Well, you can't do that either. If you want, there's a government asking, let's at least read first. Well, that's not how it's done, my friends, so what are we doing? It's anarchy. There has never been such anarchy in budgetary matters. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, I think you're right, too. Let's take a look at this question, and then we'll figure out what order, what procedure we're going to look at it in. Now I've announced-- Gabrieluk, I see, School. No, dear colleagues, it's going to be a discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u10	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, I would like to find out for myself why Bill 3594 is a feature of the privatisation of Skrtatnaft for three months now. And why is he not in the message of the day today? If we have this consideration of "For inclusion in the agenda and decision-making," there is a review of the short-term issues. Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is a very important bill, this is a strategic enterprise for our country. I ask you personally to make sure that the Supreme Council apparatus is involved in the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, the point is that we have an alternative project, the author of which is National Deputy Sandler, and we haven't been able to look into it. And we can't bring a decision before you unless another bill has been tabled in accordance with the Rules. We just couldn't do it. Please, Andrew School. And we're going to do that, we're going to set it up to look at it, and then we're going to have this question in common.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u12	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I want to draw your attention, see that Bills 0959, 2591, 0952 and 3273 have no texts, no texts. I want to point out that they're here in the agenda. It is a law on leasing, on certain legislative changes, on the right of municipal property, and on the administration of property rights and on the legal regime of the Armed Forces. These are necessary laws, we need to discuss them, we need to get ready to enter the session room. Or is there no order of the day, no text material, how can we work with them? And in general, there's some incomprehensible sequence of bills, some selectivity exists with regard to commissions of inquiry and other bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u13	I'm asking the secretariat to find out, verify and provide information. Valentin Grigorovich Matviev. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u14	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich! I want to support those colleagues who are talking about whether there should be no chapter on the return to consideration of previously unsupported decisions in the plenary session today. And why? The argument that the decision was taken by the Conciliation Council, I have repeatedly said that the Conciliation Council, in accordance with Article 4.2.4, is really shaping the draft order of the work of the Supreme Council for each row and alternate plenary session. But this does not imply that the Conciliation Council can override the position of article 3.2. 1 part 5. It is said that all proposals or projects that have not received the required majority of votes to support are considered rejected. That's what we need to get out of here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u15	Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u16	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! By supporting what the chairman of the Regulatory Committee has said, I would like to address you personally, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. The Supreme Council is being drawn in, and I emphasize it, and they're getting involved in actions that we shouldn't support. The country's budget system is broken, and that's a fact that's unquestionably true today. Instead of taking steps to strengthen this system, we are involved in destroying the tax field. What normal manager or entrepreneur will be able to work in a field where 1,333 amendments will be made?Oh, my God! Understand! Next. Normal offers. What I'm trying to say is, what's left of the transcript is official. At a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, I made a proposal to review the urgent need to pay in Ukraine. It needs to be raised, not by a minimum wage, but by a real salary, which is a beggarly, shameful work that embarrasses Ukraine worldwide. They're giving it up. I'll be right with you. That's what we're doing. We're reducing the Pension Fund. We're losing the internal market. It's not done. I strongly object to the extension of laws like 4001. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u17	Thank you. The issue of the application of the Ukrainian national deputy Hennadia Vasiliev of 28 November 2003 for the suspension of parliamentary powers is under review. Valentin Grigorovich Matviev, head of the Committee on Rules, MP ethics and organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u18	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, yesterday at a meeting of the Committee on Rules, a statement was considered, as you know, by the Attorney-General of Ukraine, National Deputy Vasiliev Hennadija Andriyovich, who, by the way, submitted on 28 November: on the timely submission of parliamentary powers in accordance with the requirements of article 81, paragraph 1, of the second part of the Constitution in relation to what I had put out earlier. Therefore, the Committee is submitting to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the following draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I emphasize that the next draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling is because it is in its name completely different, as it is marked in the order of today's session. Yesterday, at registration number 4,490, the members of the Committee on Rules of Procedure submitted it to the National Deputies. Here's what's proposed. In accordance with article 81, part 2, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, to suspend the term of office of Ukraine’s national deputy Vasiliev Hennady Andriyovich, elected in the one-man election district number 61, in connection with his personal application for his parliamentary powers. [[Donetsk Region]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u19	Vladimir Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u20	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Valentin Grigorovich, of course we will support this proposal, but I have a question for you. Tolstouchov's national deputy is now serving as minister of the Cabinet of Ministers. You have a statement on the committee, or there'll be no other document of his resignation. The point is that his card works in the hall and votes in favour of those bills that the government supports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u21	Thank you, Volodymyr Alexiovich. The Committee on Rules and Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered two weeks ago the appeal of a group of Ukrainian National Deputies in connection with the merger of a colleague of Tolstoy as minister of the Cabinet of Ministers and MPs. and, in the absence of his delegation's credentials as Ukrainian national deputy, the decision has been taken to refer to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with an invitation to refer the matter to the court in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! I'm putting to the vote the Supreme Council's decree to suspend the mandate of Ukraine's national deputy, Hennadia Vasiliev. Registration number of document 4490. [[10:17:40]] For 234 Decision taken. The factions. Dear colleagues! There is now a delegation of the Macedonian Parliament present in the session room, a group of friends. Let us welcome them and wish them every success and strengthening of cooperation between our countries. An announcement is made for the consideration of the head of the Court of Auditors of Ukraine. The committee, honourable colleagues, proposes the following rules: for the report Simonenko Valentino Kostinović - up to 7 minutes, answers to questions - up to 7 minutes, from the committee - from the committee to 5 minutes, then determine on the vote. Is there no objection? Thank you. Please invite Valentina Kostunica to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u23	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Just seven years ago, a completely new State institution, the Court of Auditors, was established by the Ukrainian Parliament, which is empowered to monitor the use of State budget funds on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A constitutional, independent, public body of financial and economic control has become operational in the State. The basic principles of action were legality, objectivity, planning and publicity. In fact, from a clear letter, the formation, development and development phase ceased to be extremely complex, both legally and financially. Already at the beginning of the activities with the first resonance checks carried out by the auditors of the Court of Auditors, this, if you remember, has been the process of limiting the legal field of the Court of Auditors. The decision of the Constitutional Court, and there were two of them, had removed the functions of monitoring the income part of the budget, monitoring the use of State property, a number of other legal rules, including fiscal functions. Nevertheless, the Court's strategy and tactics have been based on the principles of a systematic integrated study of the state of affairs: effective, legitimate and targeted use of budgetary resources from the first few years. In identifying the financial violations, the Court of Auditors had made sure that the reasons for them had been identified and had suggested ways to address them. Without attracting, it can be said that, with the establishment of the Court of Auditors, the financial control system of Ukraine has undergone a significant change in the ideology of control itself. A shift has begun from a narrow audit approach to a deep financial and administrative audit. And according to the reaction of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, the conclusions and proposals of the Court of Auditors have become an important factor in the public administration system. Today, it is courageous to note that the Court of Auditors has been held in both form and content. The results of most of the audits of the Court of Auditors were transmitted to all, without exception, the branches of authority were communicated to the leadership of the State, the Attorney-General's Office. Parliament's information has become systematic in the form of concrete proposals, and our newsletters, newsletters, are of great demand and need among the MPs. Let me get some numbers. A total of 2,739 monitoring, analysis and expert activities were conducted by the Court of Auditors during the period of its activities. Illegal, including non-target and ineffective use of State and non-State funds for more than 24.6 billion dollars has been identified. More than 3,600 reports, information findings, were sent as a result of the follow-up activities. In addition, 102 newsletters of the Court of Auditors have been issued and distributed. As a result of the analysis and analysis of the draft State budget for 2003 alone, the Court of Auditors has made proposals to increase the income of the budget by 6 billion 820 million dollars. Our proposals have almost all been implemented. For 2004, the Court of Auditors proposed to increase the revenue of the State budget by 10.6 billion dollars. The Court of Auditors is an active participant in the Intosai World Constitutional Monitoring Organization, 177 countries in the world under the auspices of the United Nations and Eurosai. Our forms and methods of auditing, despite the young age of the Court of Auditors, attract colleagues from European and world institutions with centuries of experience. In our view, this is a recognition of the authority of the Court of Auditors and of the democratic way in which our society develops. Now, on the priorities facing the Court of Auditors for the future. First. Improving and expanding the legislative framework and, above all, amending article 98 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which will enable the monitoring of the income and expenditure of the State budget, to establish a system for monitoring the country's credit financial resources. Control over the use of State property, natural resources, on this basis, adopt a new version of the Court of Auditors Act. Second. On the basis of a new legislative framework, improve the current system of auditing, analytical expert work, and the establishment of regional offices. Third. The priority for the organization of the work of the Court of Auditors should be to improve relations with the Supreme Council, its committees, through a clear interaction with the relevant committees and directly with each member. Fourth. One of the main principles of our work was and is, and public awareness of the results of audit activities remains in the future. Each taxpayer should know who, to what extent and how public funds are used by the State, practically its means. On this principle, the Court of Auditors will not take a step. These are far from complete, at least important, directions for the work of the Court of Auditors. And the last. Before I decided to extend my powers as representatives of the Court of Auditors, I asked myself two questions. Do I have a moral, professional right to do so? What new and useful can I do in this place for my country, Ukraine? I gave myself a positive answer to these questions. Almost all the MPs and groups have supported me in this. Thank you for your support. Now it's your final decision. I've got everything, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, do you have a question? Yes. Let's sign up, please, for seven minutes, as we agreed. Put your name on the board. Valerius Konovaluk, faction of the region of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u25	Dear Valentina Konstantinovich, of course, your merit is very great in that not only has the Court of Auditors been treated as a state institution, but we feel that the State's interests are actually being exploited from the point of view of the implementation of the legislative powers that the Court of Auditors has, constitutional. I'd like to ask you a few questions. First of all, what do you think are the most significant systemic violations of budgetary legislation during this time? We have a certain experience. What can you bring to the people’s deputies, and what has been changed? That's the first one. And how do you feel about working further with the budgetary committee, with the Supreme Council, so that we can not only use the concept of budget execution, but also other Supreme Council regulations, socio-economic development programmes on their efficiency of implementation and so forth? So what do you think of further work in this office in cooperation with the Committee on Budgets and the Supreme Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u26	Well, first of all, I'll start with the second question. In my view, we have a very clear system of work with the Committee on Budgets. It was only during this session that you considered 12 issues on the budget committee, or the materials prepared by our Court of Auditors this time. We thank you for practically supporting all our proposals and our conclusions. With regard to the further deepening of work, it is certainly necessary to hold joint meetings, of course, and the members of the budget committee should be present at a meeting of the Court of Auditors. We will only be happy because a joint solution to the issue, an analysis of the different opinions, always results in positive results. With regard to the systemic factors that today prevent us from making effective use of budgetary resources, we are also systematically informing the budgetary committee. I'm the last one: we talked about public procurement, which is spent in the State, almost 14.5 billion in 2003. The bracelet, despite a series of laws. Again, laws and a good legislative framework, the unthinkable and ineffective use of this enormous budget resource. Not only did we say this, but we gave the whole footnote or series, not the series, but the list of issues to be addressed. Both the Ministry of Economics and our committees. Please, we are prepared to participate in this work and prove, and indeed nothing to prove, that we all agree on this issue. To settle this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u27	National Deputy Kozlovski, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u28	Anatoly Kozlowski, Ukrainian Agrarian Party, 133 constituency, Mikolayovstina Dear Valentin Konstantinovich! We need the House of Accounts to be independent so that it can perform its functions. I didn't hear in your report that you wanted to strengthen the Chamber so that the House would actually carry out its functions. And I didn't hear how much money was paid to the state. To suggest that the Constitutional Court has waived that you have no right to work on the income part of the budget. I think in the Supreme Council these issues will be rectified. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u29	In your double question, actually, there is a double answer to your double question. To that end, the legal field of the Account must be expanded and the fiscal functions laid down in the first edition of the Bill of Accounts should be returned to it. Then there'll be clear figures, then it'll be deeper. The Court of Auditors itself will then be able to take concrete action.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u30	Valentina Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u31	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Valentina Konstantinovich. You and I worked together in Parliament when we passed the bill on the House of Accounts. During this period of work, you have actually made the House of Accounts a professional body that helps us in our work today, and the members of the Supreme Council. And I can only thank you, as chairman of the Special Monitoring Commission today, for your cooperation, and I hope that you will continue to work with us, especially as they say, in Ukraine, with the beginning of the next period: and making changes to the Constitution, and especially those tasks that the Court of Auditors is carrying out -- very much. I think you can do that as a professional. And our faction supports you in this post. And I think you're going to continue to work as you did before, and probably even better.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u32	Thank you. But where is the question?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u33	Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u34	Michael Kossov, faction of our Ukraine, the Reform and Order Party. Dear Valentina Konstantinovich, on the question that you have asked yourself, I could also give the same answer that you personally have: that you have the moral right to claim once again the head of the Court of Auditors. I'm one of those people who, although not all of your test reports read from page to page, I'm still reading. Thus, in each of your reports, it is reported that the funds allocated to or to a branch are, in a mild sense, used for purposes other than the purpose or violation of the law, that is, materials that give rise to the discovery of a criminal case. But as far as I know, no criminal case has been opened, and that's not the end of it. Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u35	The answer is yes. We've sent a lot of material to law enforcement. 89 materials. All materials relate to the main budget managers to some extent, and this makes it difficult for the Public Prosecutor's Office to open actual criminal cases. That is why usually the answer is what we consider a criminal case. We don't think so from the prosecutor's office. We do not open, but the breach goes, the list of violations is indeed and they are sent by some authorities to correct them. This is practically standard, as it is said, we have such a system. We don't break the law and everything we do under the law from start to finish. That's an honest word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u36	Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u37	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Valentina Konstantinovich, I'd like to ask you a question. [[That's where I am.]] How do other nations deal with the activities of the Court of Auditors? Whether it controls just the waste as we do, or whether it controls the income. And if you could give examples of this. And the second part of the question. If the House of Accounts is to benefit its people, what should the Supreme Council of Ukraine do to actually do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u38	Yes, Valentina Konstantinovich, time's up. Have a seat, please. Sergey Burjak. Please, head of the committee. Please, let us through. So answer the questions. You said you were done. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u39	Indeed, the question is excellent, I would say, conceptually good. I have already said that the world system, which brings together the highest financial and economic controls and the constitutional parliamentary parliaments, has 177 members, of which almost one Ukrainian Court of Auditors has no right to control the proceeds, has no right to control the use of public property. We had such rights in the first edition of the Court of Auditors Act. The Constitutional Court has deprived us of that right. In order to return them, the 98th article of the Constitution, which was voted in this Chamber by 300 votes in favour, must be amended unconditionally and work in this direction. Organization and expertise are ready to start this work, literally, from tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u40	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Sergey Burjak, head of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Then there's Valery Mishur.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u41	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking at its meeting on 9 December this year considered the application of article 85, paragraph 16, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 10, of the Law of Ukraine, "On the Court of Auditors", by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, of the nomination of Simonenka Valentino Kostinović for his appointment as Head of the Court of Auditors of Ukraine for a second term and reviewed the relevant draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As the committee considered this issue and listened to Simonek Valentina Kostinović, the head of the Court of Auditors, who in the past took an active part in the drafting of Ukraine's bill on the House of Accounts, stood in the sources of the establishment of the Court of Auditors and which had been in office since early January 1997, noted his high professional level, competence and impartiality. During the discussion of the matter, the committee supported the above-mentioned proposal by the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to appoint Valentin Kostinović for a second term as Head of the Court of Auditors. The committee unanimously voted in favour of Valentin Kostinović's candidacy. In view of the above, the committee is submitting to your consideration, honourable national deputies, a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Simonek Valentina Konstantinović as Head of the Court of Auditors for a second term and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u42	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich, sit down. Valérie Mishur, please head of the reckoning commission. May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u43	Dear colleagues. First, I would like to remind members of the calculus commission, namely, the National Deputys Asadchev Valeriy Mihajlovich, Hinzburg Olga Petrovna, Grzezhev Anatoly Dmitrovich, Ivanov Sergey Anatolievich, Kalichenko Igor Viktorovich, Karmazin Yuri Anatolievich, Kafarsky Vladimir Ivanovich, Kostinuk Bogdan Ivanovich, Majko Vitaliy Ivanovich, Manchulenko Georgiy Manoliyovich, Mirimsky Lev Yuriovich, Nadraga Vasil Ivanovich, Ryabikin Pavel Borisovich, Ryabik Vladimir Leonidovich, Sitnik Kostin Merkuryovich, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, Fomenko Katerina Alexandrivna, Chronovil Taras Vjacheslavovich, Citnikov Serwiklovich and Sergei We're going to start a reckoning commission in the wrong place where we used to work, we're going to work in the third floor towers. I would like to draw the attention of the members of the counting committee. And we start working in exactly five minutes, 10 hours 46 minutes. I'd like to address the national MPs, and we're planning to prepare the ballots and announce the start of the vote at about 12 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, I ask you to consider that we will take a break at 12 o'clock, if the reckoning committee is ready and we pass the vote, let's continue our break for 10-15 minutes, let's say within 12 hours 45 minutes, so that you can vote. No warning? Thank you. It's being announced. Oh, no, we do. Dear colleagues, we need to vote to include two draft decrees for the creation of temporary commissions, this is document 4478 and 4390, 4390-1. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of the Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of foreign intervention in financing electoral campaigns in Ukraine through non-State organizations that exist on foreign state grants. Please vote. Turn on the "Honey" system. There goes the vote. Yes, please vote. [[10:43:27]] For 281 Questions are included in the agenda. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, we are now, there is such an offer, we will discuss this question, and then we will define another, there is no objection, the commission of inquiry, there is no. Let us turn to this question. Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, your opinion is on Project 4478, which is distributed, and you have an opportunity to get to know it. The purpose of this project is to create a temporary tracking commission and to deal with some questions. The specifically proposed national deputies to this commission were in agreement with the faction leaders. Then, from the faction of "Our Ukraine" came an offer to include Klukkowski, Yavorowski, in the membership of this commission. I think we can look at it with you if we vote in favour of this project. From which I came out personally and thank you for supporting those national MPs who joined the project. We came out first of the fact that this commission, which was created by the Supreme Council in November of this year, we decided to set up a special commission to oversee the observance of citizens' rights and freedoms during political actions. But to my deep conviction, today, especially before the 2004-2006 electoral cycle, this is not enough. I personally believe that not only political actions, not only the formation and operation of electoral committees of all levels, but not only the run of elections themselves, but also the information policy of national television and radio, printed and electronic media, should be subject to close parliamentary and public scrutiny. An unbiased analysis of political processes in post-Radians, especially recent events in Georgia and elections to the State of Russia, gives us the right to claim that the influence of so-called non-State funds, various agencies, various institutions that work in Ukraine and are financed by foreign governments or directly or indirectly, has reached a level that, in my opinion, is equal to direct interference in the internal affairs of our sovereign state. Under the form of the introduction of modern so-called democratic forms and methods of political struggle, the interests of only specific political forces and candidates, such as those who, after the elections, are willing to pursue targeted foreign investment in the interests of foreign capital, not to defend the interests of the people of Ukraine. This applies to both the financial and political clans in power and the financial and political clans that oppose them. These funds, in the form of public opinion, are trying to create a puppet regime and regime for us in Ukraine in the interests of specific investors. That's why we're proposing to a parliamentary commission in cooperation with national social organizations, trade unions and, if necessary, with law enforcement agencies, to conduct a comprehensive social audit of the activities of non-state public funds, institutions and organizations financed from abroad. The objectives of this audit, in my opinion, should be to match their statutory and practical activities not only with Ukraine's legislation, but primarily with our national interests. Secondly, it is to find out the sources and how to finance specific programs that are directly or indirectly linked to the future electoral cycle. The extent of interference through such non-state organizations, institutions in the internal affairs of Ukraine with the aim of lobbying the interests of foreign capital. And thirdly, it's consistent with the stated principles of openness, equality of access to advisory, material, technical, information and other services of all political forces regardless of ideological preferences. The Company's faction strongly opposes the use of any administrative or financial resource as a tool of influence and distortion of the results of the will of the indigenous oligocrats. But at the same time, we believe and hope that this point of view is supported by the people's deputies in this Hall, which threatens the national interests of the state and Ukrainian citizens, the activities of various, so-called independent public funds, and so on, which are financed from abroad to lobby the economic interests of transnational corporations, the political interests of imperialist influence centres and the establishment of puppet regimes around the world. The threat of repetition of either Yugoslav or Georgian or Russian democratization should be a warning to you and me, national MPs as well as to the entire people of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. The project, presented to you by your colleagues, I believe it is necessary to support and continue to do what is necessary to protect Ukraine's national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u46	Yes, have a seat, please. Boris Bespali. Boris Bespali is a recorded, respected colleague, so.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u47	Yeah. Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, is there a problem that the leader of the Communists has now spoken so highly of? Well, it does exist. But let's compare the magnitude of the problem. I have the impression that in this case, people see flies, they smell mosquitoes, and they don't just see an elephant. Why? Let's think about what illegal involvement and funding we have in electoral campaigns is. First. By means of media outlets of a neighboring state, a neighboring territory. There is a massive systematic interference in Ukraine’s political life. But the Communists and their allies of the presidential majority somehow do not notice. The polytechnologists of the neighbouring state are overcrowding the electoral headquarters of our candidates from power, but the communists and their allies from the "presidential majority" don't see it in any way. Next. Through the state goes the largest source of intervention, there's the dissipation of the state budget, which we've just talked about, for the sake of the electoral campaign. But the communists and their allies from the "presidential majority" somehow don't notice that. The next source is funding, which, in general, the use of power in the election campaign is a whole system. And I think it's not just by chance that the newly formed majority are trying to make this decision and do, in some way, a semi-smuggling way once it's nine numbers, just for consideration. And this is when, really, it's not possible to put something into the order of the day. So the proposal is to support in general what the initiative is. To draw society's attention to the fact that there is an illegal involvement in the financing of electoral campaigns. But in the regulation and in the text, change this way: “establishing facts, not foreign interference”, but “illegal interference”. Then the foreign intervention, and the foreign intervention, I insist, and the intervention of the Ukrainian government and the President's Administration, which the communists and their allies like very much. And I think it's narrow because there are other forms of intervention: through individual polytechnologists, through the media, through the government authorities of Ukraine and the neighbouring states. So I suggest you put a name in one of these. And I ask you to put this to a vote, "On the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of establishing illegal interference in the financing of electoral campaigns in Ukraine," is a dot. Thank you for your attention. And I hope you understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u48	Thank you. Now, one minute. There'll be a line, I've already announced, School. Then the replica is Solomatine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u49	Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I ask that you pass the word to Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u50	Alexander the Turkinov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced, and perhaps most of this room will support me, that, in fact, elections in Ukraine -- whether presidential or parliamentary elections -- are an internal issue exclusively of our citizens. And so it certainly will not allow interference in the election of any foreign representatives or states, well, and certainly impossible interference and administrative resources. That's why we're really proposing to expand the name and the task of this commission. And after saying, "foreign involvement in funding electoral campaigns in Ukraine," put a dot. This raises the problem and does not just bring it to small amounts. There is a much broader need to ask questions. And we really don't deny that the priorities of this committee are to be included in the discussions on how governments of different levels are involved in electoral processes as well. That's why we're proposing to extend the commission's mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, there is no objection. But let's think about it this way. Honorable colleagues, when you began to consider the matter, were recorded by one Bespallian. That's why I gave Bespalam my word. You signed up, you're on. You don't have to. And then with motive, please. And no one else is written down. There's no record. I'm watching.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u53	Vladimir Mihajlovich, first after Boris Bespalogo's speech, I think we should make sure that the means of fire safety are strengthened. A thief and a hat burns. That's the first one. Here, a respected colleague was saying that the Communists "see the fly, not see the elephant". Dear colleagues, I've been taught since I was a child that flies have to be destroyed, they do great harm, they spread the disease. As the communists say, let us deal with these foreign funds, which today are trying to dictate their policies, with various dark schemes, to smuggle into our country, and let us deal with the State which is pressing pressure on people in preparation for the elections during various political adventures. You're talking about us not noticing Russia. Yes, this document implies that let us deal with the funds that are being created in the West and from Russia are being financed. Let's figure it out in the complex because we're doing something, you're doing a one-sided democracy. When you have to deal with the State that's holding you down, you're just trying to figure it out. And when you have to deal with the funds that you give to the people, you say you don't have to. Well, colleagues, about what you said about the Communist alliance with the majority, you'll forgive me for "whose cow wets." The year 2000, when you and most of you were pronouncing illegal decisions against which colleagues of Assadchev were rightly outraged at each meeting, said a great deal. So the doctor healed himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u54	Yes, Valery Assadchev, please. Then Kirilenko. Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u55	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, first of all, I wanted to essentially make a decision. If you are writing about the facts of foreign intervention, then you should at least bring one fact, then you can create a commission, deal with it. If there are no such facts, and you predict what they might be, then it could be some election control committee. Do you understand? Otherwise this nonsense comes out, the facts you're saying there's no fact. So what are you going to figure out? But I wanted to say the same thing to you, ladies of Communists, because you made this decision. Well, that's not what you're doing, and you're saying that you're in opposition to not include any members of the great faction. I'm sorry. Where is this democracy, and where is this decency? That doesn't happen, you know, we make commissions, and there's a proportional representation. All right, let's keep it disproportionate, let's say from each faction, let's say at least one of these should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u56	One minute, you can't do that, you've already done that. Kirilenko, please. Then Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u57	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! I urge everyone to be alert in what sense. In fact, this ruling, regardless of how each of the parties that intends to put it, opens the way for cross-border state control over the entire public sector. I emphasize, everyone: foreign, non-territorial, interference, non-intervention, everyone under the cap knows what services. Including the Communists who will take part in the election campaign. It's different. This is the name of this decision about some sort of funding for electoral campaigns that is actually going to interfere with free observation, including by foreign observers on the move of the presidential campaign. Trust me, it will be used in that sense. Third. We have whole parties and factions directly funded by the Russian Federation, for example. How to deal with this phenomenon, whether we are making an additional decision or not. So in view of that, I think that the proposal that Boris Bespali made should be supported. In fact, if we were to take this issue seriously, the opposition forces should first come together and think about whether one side of the opposition should assume responsibility as the initiator of such a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u58	Thank you. Valérie Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u59	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, I believe that the purpose, the creation of this Temporary Investigation Commission, is clearly defined. And we agree with those proposals that are now echoing, and we are interested in strengthening the rule of law in the presidential election. I just want to say again, let's, if there's such an initiative, make suggestions, let's make commissions out of those issues that are going to be asked. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, so that I don't take the floor twice, I want "Our Ukraine" to offer two candidates. And I see a defined principle as one representative of the faction. So ask the factions to identify themselves with a single candidate and we will vote in favour. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u60	Please, Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u61	The Communist faction. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to draw the attention of the representatives of "Our Ukraine," and this was witnessed by the members of the Conciliation Council on Monday, when I applied, to run for office in this commission, the only one who refused me is Pinzenik, the representative of "Our Ukraine." This witness was Mr. Poroshenko and all the members, practically, of the Conciliation Council. Because after my appeal to the members of the Conciliation Board, I was the first to submit this project to, and it was Mr. Pinzenic. And I suggested, please look, make your nominations. For what reason, I don't know, Victor Mikhailovich didn't give this candidacy. Now you've given it to me, and I've suggested that you include just the people's deputies you've named as members of this committee. And second. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like you and I not to pursue a double standard policy. As soon as we, the Communists, are consistently pursuing a policy of independence and national interest, there are representatives of "Our Ukraine" who are afraid of something because we are going to test the activities of the funds, to what extent their activities are in accordance with the national interests of the people of Ukraine, I don't understand this position. Let us then follow with you all that has to do with financing the parties, if you have this information, to finance certain sociological centers that impose their own perspective, not to study what the people today would like to say. So I propose: let's vote on this as a basis and today as a whole, and let's work in the interests of the people of Ukraine and the national interests of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, don't shout. Get the word "freeze," Pinzenik, and we'll vote. Don't put your hands up again. Frost Alexander and Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u63	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. Our faction did not vote on the draft decree. I want to say why. I think we need to look into the activities of the funds that they really have a suspicion of using these funds not by destination. And if there are such facts, then the commission should work, we've given our candidacy. But Parliament's intentions today are very strangely in line with the President's intentions: to ban the activities of the NDI Institute, to ban the activities of Reporters Without Borders and other services, the weekly Mirror, and so forth. So let's be careful. If this commission is to be created and operated, it should work on specific facts, not to help the regime today to close down all foreign representations so that no one knows what is going on in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u64	Please, Pinzenik, and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u65	Victor Pinzenik, "Our Ukraine" faction. I would like to thank the distinguished Peter Mikolaiovich that he has not forgotten to mention "Our Ukraine" all the time in the last month. The decision of the faction "Our Ukraine" on proportional representation in the commission is in line with the rules of the Rules. I didn't agree to be one representative, because the faction of our Ukraine is the largest faction in our Parliament. So we demand and insist on inclusion according to the number of factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, be careful. I am voting on the Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Establishment of Foreign Interventions in the Financing of Election Companies in Ukraine through non-State organizations that exist on grants from foreign states with proposals that have been made by the faction of "Our Ukraine", which is reported by the rapporteur Simonenko, including these two representatives of "Our Ukraine" in the commission. Vote. [[11:04:55]] For 289 Thank you. 289, we need 150 votes to make the decision. Decision taken. Please show by factions. "Our Ukraine" - 0, "Ukrainian Regions" - 61, Communists - 59, "Trudova Ukraine" - 41, "Social Democrats" - 36, "The People's Government" - 21, "Soccoria - 0, "Timoshenko" - 5, "Deminiciates" - 18, "The Agrarian Party - 11, "The People's Choice" - 13, "The National Choice" - 14, "The Postfactional" - 10. [[United]] Please, Bezpali.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u67	Thank you, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, for your word for replication. Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block, "Our Ukraine." I wanted to say two positions. First. Unfortunately, you've given your word for replication very well. But you made a decision with a violation. You should have put it on the ground, because I even got written suggestions on the content of the name and the text. And I insist on putting them to the vote. Now it's from the Communists. I mean, it's where the words "destroy" and stuff. Each has its own lexical row. I just want to remind you of the destruction of flies. Once in China, Communists destroyed sparrows. What has come out of this is known throughout the world. Let's not destroy flies, and in the form of destroying flies, even those little specks of democracy that are breaking through in Ukraine, they're also burning, destroying and pillaging. I think that when the Communists consider what they've done, they're going to have enough, I think, of course, to reverse that decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The question is closed. The discussion is over because we will be exchanging lines by the end of the day. It's happening. Sergey Petrovich, you'll say, sit down, please. School, your last name wasn't on it, so don't raise your hand. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm a gmirja.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u69	Thank you. I don't call my last name, but I'm a little surprised. I was talking about when I was almost accused of calling someone to kill, I was talking about killing flies. I don't know who the colleague thinks he is. Well, as for his comparison with the elephants, I don't know what elephants? Maybe American elephants? Well, well known in this case is a comparison with an elephant of some American parties. What's he talking about? Once again, dear colleagues, let us not exaggerate the facts.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u70	A Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, you put to the vote so quickly that you violated the procedure, Adam Ivanovich. I made a proposal, including extending the commission's mandate, and after the words "to finance the facts of foreign interference in financing an electoral campaign in Ukraine" put a dot so as not to narrow it down exclusively to any public organization. Because there could be a direction of funding across the border of some political entities. That's why, Adam Ivanovich, I'm asking you to put my proposal to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u72	Question completed. It is up to the vote to include, be careful, the inclusion in the agenda of the draft decision on the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify compliance with the requirements of Ukrainian legislation regarding the procedure for the purchase of goods, jobs and services at state expense, and the conduct of export operations with natural gas. Accounting for gas with Turkmenistan. And the enforcement of legislation on employment and the dismissal of managers at the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz of Ukraine and the enterprises that are part of it. These are registration numbers 4390, 4390-1. From Karnauh’s motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u73	Karnauh. Dear colleagues! I represent the Lochwitsky constituency, which produces more than 20 percent of the gas and up to 10 percent of the oil. I think that gas and oil companies are working in extremely difficult conditions today, and that's why the question that we're going to put into the order of the day is illegal and not necessary. That is why I call on all national MPs not to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, be careful. I am putting to the vote the question of inclusion in the order of the day, and I am considering it today. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:11:12]] For 131 The decision is not taken. Question taken. Dear colleagues! Here we have another draft of Decree 4419. This is a draft decree for the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify the effectiveness of the activities of the public administrations in addressing the complex of issues related to the exit of the Chernobyl AES from the operation, the implementation of a plan for the implementation of actions on the “Secretation” facility and in the alienation zone in relation to the handling of radioactive waste. A question is asked about the inclusion in the agenda and the consideration of the matter. Please make up your mind. [[11:12:12]] For 134 The decision is not taken. Thus, honourable colleagues, all questions related to the creation of the provisional commissions that were in order today, have been considered and made appropriate decisions. Let us now consider the questions of second reading. As Vladimir Mihajlovich has said, I now remind you, Mr. President, that Bill 4,000-1 "On amending certain laws on taxation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2004" will be considered after 16 hours of consideration of the question of the election and release of judges. And now we're listening to the draft Act on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on the harmonization of land laws, the second reading. This is Bill 2608. Reports the head of the Committee’s subcommittee on agrarian policy and land relations, Vladimir Alexiyovich Lechchenko. Please, Vladimir Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u75	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. You are invited by the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations to amend some Ukrainian legislation. This issue arose because of the adoption of the Codex earth, as well as a number of other bills. They need to be aligned with valid legislation. I remind you that the first reading of this question was discussed on June 5, this year. The bill proposes to amend the 14 existing laws of Ukraine. In addition, the Final Provisions are proposed to decide whether the two laws of Ukraine and a single decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are in force. After considering the bill, the committee received 25 comments and suggestions from Ukraine’s national deputies in its first reading. The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, when carefully considered, suggests that 13 should be taken into account, 5 should be taken into account, and 7 comments and proposals by Ukrainian national deputies should be rejected. I would like to stress once again to those national MPs who have made proposals that are unaccounted for, not because they are unaccounted for, but because they have no sense, but because this bill is in agreement with the Earth Code and other laws that have been adopted with regard to land legislation. The Committee on Agrarian Politics and Land Relations proposes to adopt the designated bill in second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are now in second reading mode, so please take the document. Amendment number 16. National MP. Amendment number 12, I'm sorry. People's deputy Semenyuk. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Amendment number 15. Budjigan Philip Philipovich. Don't insist. Amendment 18, Semenyuk. Oh, her. It's different. I see. Yes, 19. Same thing. 22, Semenyuk. Then, dear fellows, we have every reason. Yukhnov Igor Rafailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u77	Yukhnowsky, "Our Ukraine." I wanted to ask you, why aren't there any amendments to the Forest Code? Because woodchoppers still do not have legal rights to the forest ranges they manage and where they own them. Why this is not done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u78	Dear Igor Raphaelovich, I would like to ask you what your amendment to this question concerns, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! We're all, as it were, those adjustments that we've taken into account. What we have now is not an insistence on national MPs. I therefore put to the vote a proposal by the committee to adopt, on second reading and in general, the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the harmonization of land laws. [[Registration number 2608]] Please vote. [[11:17:57]] For 175 The decision is not taken. What's the committee's offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u80	Adam Ivanovich, I would like to ask the committee to put it to a vote again, because this is the first bill among those who read the second one, and perhaps the Ukrainian national deputies, and it shows that they have not heard it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u81	I've announced the number of the law. Please, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u82	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! We ask you to put the vote again. For technical reasons, the faction was not informed about the question of voting. Thank you and please understand the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! I can really understand you because there's a lot of noise in the room. I'm stressing again. Be careful. I am voting on the Act in second reading and in general on amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on the harmonization of land laws. Registration number 2608. Please vote. [[11:19:37]] For 315 The law is passed. There's a bill on land assessment. Second reading, registration number 2609. As reported by Leszczenko Volodymyr Aleksijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u84	Dear National Deputies, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations offers you a second reading of the draft Land Assessment Act. I remind you that this bill is going towards the development of the Ukrainian Code of Land, the first reading of which was discussed and voted on March 6 as a basis, and voted 275 people's deputies in favour. During this time, the committee has received extremely many proposals and 94 comments, including 44 of them, taken into account partially and editorially 24 and rejected 26. The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations offers a proposal, adopted by the second draft, and in general. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Whether one of the authors of the amendments, which was amended in accordance with the rules of law and not counted, insists that we consider its amendment. Please, Unburnt microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u86	Thank you. Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Well, first of all, I don't understand how 20 can be counted, and 26 is rejected when there's only 90 of them, what about the rest? They're probably just not considered. So I think it's not random, it's about the 66 amendments on page 38. The committee suggests that it be mandatory to review reports in case of alienation, in parentheses, in the redemption of land. But alienation and redemption are very different things. An alienation may be another way. So what I'm proposing is that these concepts don't identify the outside, the technical order: instead of the ransom in parentheses, make it through the coma. But the more principle is different. It says: The motivations of social necessity.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u87	Boris Jakovitch, please wait. With regard to the first amendment of a purely technical, comatose, and so forth, what is the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u88	The point is, the committee was looking at this amendment. And we think, and so it is that alienation can also be the way of redemption. So it's put in parentheses to pay particular attention to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u89	Boris Yakovitch, will we vote or do you agree? Then finish. Boris Jakovitch Bespalij.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u90	I thank you, but in the same amendment, there is a more important situation here, for reasons of social necessity. Motives are such an undefined category. So I suggest clearly: in case of social necessity, so if there is such a social need. And I'm asking you to replace the word "motivatives" with the word "in case." As for the previous answer, alienation is broader than the ransom, for alienation can be another way. So they're just parentheses and they're inappropriate. I'd like the committee to agree. Because otherwise we will return to this question, it is simple and should not be resisted where there is no need to resist.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u91	Vladimir Alexiyovich. Dear Boris Yakovich, in the Code of Earth and other laws that have already been adopted, this expression is used "with motive". So, in order not to mess with other bills, the committee still believes that for reasons of social need.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u92	Boris Yakovitch, don't you insist? Yes, we did. Any other national MPs? Boris Yakovich will do it. Please, Unburnt microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u93	Thank you. Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine. 80th Amendment on page 43. So the committee suggests that land assessment work can be financed at the expense of the budget, namely budgets of all levels, landowners' and land users' costs, which do not give rise to any objections. But it goes on to say that other sources are not prohibited by law. In general, no law prohibits the financing of land - assessment jobs. Then it turns out that this funding in committee editing can be anything, in fact everything is weather, they allow these jobs to be financed in any way that is wrong. That's why we have to, and this is the standard situation, the formula for "unlawfully prohibited" to write "provisioned by law." Then funding will be from only legal sources. Otherwise, these land works will be financed from other, very dark and dirty sources. And I'd like to agree with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u94	Dear Boris Yakovovich, the committee has considered this issue, and yet it does not think that all sources can be provided by law. Or there may be other sources of funding, but we're going to make it harder to make them unprohibited by legislation. So if you insist, let's put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u95	Boris Yakovich, shall we vote? Yes, Boris Jakovitch Bespalij insists on amendment No. 80. Please identify yourself. Who's for supporting Amendment 80 of the Insomnia, please vote. [[11:25:44]] For 104 Correction not accepted. Any other MPs insist? Boris Yakovitch, all your corrections? None. All other amendments are either taken into account or the authors do not insist that they be put to the vote. So I'm putting forward a proposal for a committee to adopt the Land Assessment Act, registration number 2609 in second reading and generally as a law. Please vote. [[11:26:31]] For 308. Thank you. The law is passed. Next. Some agrarians are happy, some of them aren't. Everyone agrees, right? The next bill is the draft Law on Inland Waters, the Territorial Sea and the adjacent zone of Ukraine, registration number 2605. Both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Committee are proposing in connection with some disagreement that we, as it were, should not send him today, move something. Well, there's a proposition. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for us to move this bill. That's why I'm asking you to identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u96	Dear friends, the committee does not support this proposal. We are willing to listen today, and there are no comments from the Cabinet of Ministers about whether or not to listen to this document today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u97	Well, Igor Ivanovich, you're not in charge of the Cabinet of Ministers, I'm in charge. Representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers have asked that in view of the fact that there are some inconsistencies in this bill, the Cabinet of Ministers, not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Cabinet of Ministers in the Prime Minister's person ask us to postpone the consideration of this bill today. So I'm asking the people's deputies, the people's deputies, to be determined to support this proposal, to postpone its consideration. [[Now, I'll give you the procedure.]] From the cook's procedure, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u98	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Adam Ivanovich, please listen! You know this bill was already adopted in the first reading. That is, in the first reading of this bill, Adam Ivanovich, was adopted in the first reading. And regardless of who is the subject of the legislative initiative, it already belongs, that is, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And if there's a decision by the profile committee on this bill. If it is placed in order today and its consideration is determined today, there is no regulatory or other reason not to put it to a vote, regardless of will or thought, or on the grounds of the legislator’s initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u99	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich, you're absolutely right to make a note. But the Committee does not appoint the Supreme Council, the Committee makes a proposal, and the Supreme Council will be defined. There are two suggestions -- one that Igor Ivanovich made about what the committee is proposing to consider. Another suggestion to really look at it, and I'm sorry not to fall down, move it to a later consideration to reconcile something. And that's not why the committee will decide, but we'll decide with you. So, reverends.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u100	Dear Adam Ivanovich! I also wanted to say that we have no conflict with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and with the Cabinet of Ministers, so I see no reason why we should carry this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! So that no one blames anyone under the Rules. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the motion to postpone the consideration of the draft law on inland waters, territorial seas and the adjacent zone of Ukraine. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u102	The committee does not support this. [[11:30:51]] For 269
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u103	"For" - 269. Decision taken. That is, the question will be referred to later, for the next plenary weeks. There's a bill to amend the Ukrainian Information Agency Act. It's registration number 3587, second reading. Reported the chairman of the committee, the deputy, the head of the committee is probably already celebrating the birthday. Artemenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! I'd like to remind you of this bill. This is about a bill introduced by the government, which is about allowing foreign citizens and legal persons of other states to increase to 35 percent in the statutory fund in the creation of information agencies. The point is, you know, there's a warning from the Council of Europe. She wants there to be no restrictions at all. But the position of our committee is that, on the one hand, we have to develop, protect our information space and, on the other hand, have the opportunity to attract foreign investment. Therefore, our committee agrees with the government’s view of a minor and nothing, in our view, that there is no solution to such a step as an increase from 30 percent to 35 percent of the statutory share of foreign persons, legal persons and private persons, in the statutory fund of information agents. The committee requests that the bill be supported by the government in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there have been many amendments made by the national deputy Karmazin. Please, he's got a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u106	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to consider this. Protecting information security is one of the components of Ukraine's national security. I repeat, they ask -- not to hear them, I repeat that the protection of information security is one of the components of Ukraine's national security. And put it there. I would like to propose the deletion of the following words: "Foreign citizens and legal persons of other states have the right to be co-founders of the information agencies of Ukraine." At the same time, there's a second part that says, "It's forbidden to create and operate information agencies in a statutory fund with a total share belonging to foreigners of more than 35."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u107	Yuri Anatolyovich, I'm sorry, let's do it the first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u108	I have two amendments, so I'm going to say it right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u109	We're going to define one by one, and then we're going to define the other.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u110	So I'm asking you to delete it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u111	For the first one, what's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u112	Well, on the first, and on the second, we don't think that 30 and 35 mean anything. We suggest rejecting the amendments of Yuri Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u113	Yuri Anatolyevich, insists on voting. Amendment No. 1 of the People's Deputy Karmazin is being voted on. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:34:19]] For-48 Correction not accepted. Are you insisting on the second amendment? Please, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u114	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps no one understands what they are now saying is that you voted on the election today. And what is information agencies that are in the hands of foreigners, I see that people are not yet mature enough to understand. Then I'm asking you to understand. And so far, the law said, "30 percent." We're raising these interest rates right now and we're not even saying what we're doing it for. It's about 35, what's written down. Still, I am Adam Ivanovich, so as not to take further the word. Article 10 proposes that this project be excluded altogether. Who's in the way? And in this law, it has been written, in its current version, "according to this law, the founder is either a citizen or a legal person of Ukraine who has established an information agency." That's the point of this law. They want to delete what it should be a citizen of Ukraine, or an information agency. Protecting foreign people. Is that wise? That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u115	Yes, please, come on. You do not insist on the second amendment because it was related to the first one and you saw the result. So this is about amendment number five. Do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u116	It's a committee against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u117	Yes, please, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u118	The committee's against it, and it's asking me to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u119	Then, under the pressure of the national MP, I place his amendment. Amendment 5 of Carmazine to leave the 10th article. Don't turn it off. Please make up your mind. [[11:36:34]] For-43 Thank you, 43, no decision taken. Everything else is accounted for, no one insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u120	The committee asks for the support of the government and for the adoption of the law in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! I'm proposing to the committee to adopt, in the second reading and in general, the Act on Amendments to the Information Agencies Act on Establishment. [[Registration number 3587]] Please vote. [[11:37:21]] For 325 Thank you. The law is passed. There is a bill on the protection of archaeological heritage. This is registration number 0951, second reading. Report to the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Petrovich Toloczko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u122	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The draft Law on Protection of An Archaeological Heritage was approved by the former Supreme Council on first reading. This Supreme Council, under the insistence of the Committee on Culture and Spiritual Rebirth, was referred to as a second reading. Throughout this period, the law has been further developed according to the observations of the National Deputies, the Committee on Culture and the relevant services of the Ministry of Culture. The text presented is based to some extent on 140 amendments to the national MPs. The project that the Committee on Science and Education puts on second reading took an expert course at the Academy of Sciences, the Institute of State and Law, the Institute of Supreme Council Legislation and others. Another view is that of the Supreme Council’s Legal Authority. A stumbling block here was the introduction of the Institute of Archaeology of the National Academy of Sciences to the right of the subject of the protection and research of the archaeological heritage. The main right here is to license the qualifications of archaeological heritage researchers. Now, I can tell you, your honorary colleagues, what the rights under archaeological, scientific and archaeological institutions are from 1919, from the All-Ukrainian Archaeological Commission, and then the archaeological committee. This order is defined in legislation, in the law on the protection of cultural heritage, and is not in any way a violation of the rules in the Constitution, as the government says. The point is that the Academy of Sciences is a state institution and is involved in the implementation of state programs, including yesterday we approved a program on the protection of cultural heritage and there the Academy of Sciences is one of the authors of this program. Another problem, also vulnerable, is the problem of the licensing of collectors. Today, collectors are the agents of black archaeology, and we want to standardize this activity. And in the law on the protection of archaeological heritage, we have set up a few points that regulate this activity, including licensing. What does our administration say? It states that according to the law, this list is not one of the types of economic activity. Dear colleagues, this is indeed not a type of farming activity. This is the type of robbery of our national historical and cultural heritage, and it is imperative that the state regulates this process. And the last. Our administration says that there are some markers and that there is a need for correction. Well, I think our administration is legal for this and it exists in the Supreme Council system to help eliminate certain inadequacies. I asked them to do so, and they promised that they would do so, and they didn't actually take any part. So I have to say that the law is worked out, maybe like no other, because it's worked for almost three years, it's completely ready to be adopted in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u123	Thank you. Peter Petrovich. Dear colleagues, we're working in second-reading mode, so we're going to be following the amendments. The procedure will be before the vote, Yuri Anatolyevich. We're not breaking procedures right now, we're following up. Please, Tanjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u124	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I'm in order. There's a problem here that there's still another law registered with us, number 0951 on the protection of an archaeological heritage. And now we're doing the wrong thing, we're discussing this law, and we're not discussing it. And besides, there's a denial of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Culture about the main ones Peter Petrovich said about licensing, the right to license is given to the institution, not to the government. On this basis, both Minust and the Cabinet of Ministers have objected to discussing this today. I would still suggest that today we postpone this law, discuss the second one, then go along with the Cabinet of Ministers to agree, because we don't have the right to give one institution the right to license and make money for what can go into the budget normally.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u125	Thank you. Petrovich will now answer. But I'll tell you something else. Les Stepanovich, we're talking about 0951, we're now looking at the draft Law on Protection of An Archaeological Heritage. Please, Peter Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, for nearly three years, the Committee on Culture and Spiritual Rebirth said that we did not need such a law for Ukraine. And all of a sudden, yesterday or the day before, they're giving a new draft of the Archaeological Heritage Protection Act, and they're giving it under the same number that registered our law three years ago. Therefore, there is no possibility of considering it today, since it has not undergone appropriate procedures. I have to tell you, I've seen this law. All that is good is written out of our law. And all that is not written is bad. Now it's about licensing. Licensing is not just a document issued by an official of the right to undertake archaeological research. It's a definition of the competence of a fellow worker, it's a control over archaeological research, it's a review of scientific reports, it's a foundation of archaeological reports, it's a system of centralization, it's information on archaeological research. Please tell me who of the officials can do it in the Ministry of Culture when my former two labs work there. Well, what are we talking about, dear colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u127	Thank you. We're working on the second reading procedure. I'm addressing you, dear colleagues. Are we going to go through every correction or are we just going to give to those who insist on their amendments? Yes, which of the authors of the amendments insists on considering its amendment? There's a lot of Les Stepanovich Tanjuk here. Please, Tanjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u128	I would like to vote amendment number one on the front page to make the title of the law "On the Legal Status of Archaeological Research." The rights and duties of researchers of the archaeological heritage. ” This is broader than the law on the protection of an archaeological heritage. Because this law does put protection in the last place, and it's about the legal status of archaeological research. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u129	Please, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, that's not true. It's actually about the legal system for the protection of an archaeological heritage, and this research is part of the protection of this archaeological heritage. And it's no wonder that the alternative bill, they also filed under this name -- protection of an archaeological heritage. So you don't have to change the headlines.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u131	Thank you. So we're going to define the first amendment. National MP Tanyuk insists that we vote. That's why I'm asking you to make up your mind. Amendment number one of the People's Deputies of Tanjuk. [[11:46:40]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Is there anyone else who insists on repairs? Insomnia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u132	Thank you. Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Well, it's kind of hard to get out of the way that we're working a little bit, but the veto is still going to be in this part, but God is with him. I'm 11 years old. I think it could have been accepted without a vote. It says here that archaeological research has been carried out in accordance with scientific and scientific and practical legislation. The thing is, it's not a law of protection. And everything that is done in Ukraine is done according to legislation. Why should we humiliate scholars and researchers, reminding them of their obligation to obey the law? The definition of the essence of archaeological research is not a matter of law at all. There's an object of its own, and it's a scientific object. That's why it's completely out of place and the inappropriate words "implemented in accordance with Ukrainian legislation." And I would just like to say yes, because that's what legal technology requires. If not, do as you wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u133	Peter Petrovich, I think you can agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u134	Boris Yakovic, there's no denying it in principle. We thought it wouldn’t spoil at least this article if we went to law school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u135	Let's agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u136	If we don't have to, we'll agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u137	Agreed. Yes, Tanjuk, then Shulga. Tanuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u138	There's amendment number three, Peter Petrovich. This is the case in my amendment: This law regulates legal, organizational, social relations in the field of archaeological research, rights, and duties of archaeological heritage researchers. In the version you are proposing, the rights and duties of archaeological heritage researchers have come to an end. Then there is the possibility of a precedent for violations of the rights, duties of researchers of an archaeological heritage. Please take into account everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u139	Yes, Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u140	Les Stepanovich, there's no objection, we can file.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u141	So we're in agreement. Yes, please, Shulga.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u142	Schulga, the Communist faction. I just can't agree with Deputy Bespalogo's opinion that research in archaeology should not be regulated by law. This is exactly the area that requires prior access to these studies to be an open letter rather than an inheritance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u143	Thank you. But I'm protecting Bespalo in the sense that he said in a broader context, not just one law, but the laws of Ukraine, because other laws have a bearing on that. That is exactly what he meant, and we came to that agreement. Please, who else has it? Incorruptible, then Tanjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u144	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for your support. There is another amendment 47 in conjunction with Deputy Volkov. The point is that this is really a question, it's regulated by legislation, pretty much, wide, and international and Ukrainian. But according to popular standards, including the Constitution of Ukraine, if the international treaty of Ukraine agrees to the obligation given by the Supreme Council, or ratified, established standards other than those provided for by this law, the international treaty applies. This is what we write in all the laws and this is absolutely necessary for clarity, because a coalition of legal norms can really be. So I think it doesn't make sense to reject that amendment. And I hope for the support and understanding of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u145	But Volkov's national deputy doesn't insist. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u146	Boris Yakovic, the point is there's a special chapter on "International Cooperation in Archaeology" and that's where it's supposed to be. And double the same thing, it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u147	Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Any other changes? Tanuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u148	Amendments to article 39. Paragraphs 4 and 5 should be merged into one and read: “Archaeological heritage security”.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u149	Peter Petrovich, found, this page 7
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u150	The thing is, it's basically okay with that. But there's this point: "Creating the necessary conditions to protect objects of archaeological heritage." It's practically the same thing. If you insist on your editing, we will edit this item accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u151	There's been a deal. Any other amendments, please? Tanjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u152	A very important amendment, the 73rd. It says, "Science reports on archaeological explorations, excavations are submitted to the Scientific Archive at the Institute of Archaeology of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, which is a professional branch of state archives and is subordinated to the Chief Archives Office of the Ministers of Ukraine." In your editorial, a faction came out: "subordinated to the Chief Archive Department at the Cabinet of Ministers." Thus, all documents remain in the institution and cannot be used in the archival aspect. I'd like to make it clear, "and subordinated to the Chief Archives Office of the Ministers of Ukraine." The Ministry of Culture also insists on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u153	Les Stepanovich, the scientific archive of the Institute of Archaeology has been gathering since 1919. There's concentrated reporting for all the archaeological research within Ukraine that any archaeologist has done. So far it's been the structure of the National Academy of Sciences. We can't remove one unit from the Institute and subordinate the archive administration. We consulted with the archival administration. They don't know this form either.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u154	Les Stepanovich insists. That's why I'm asking you to make up your mind. We are voting for amendment 73.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u155	Well, there can't be one structure, there can be two subordinations, and one institution. [[11:53:49]] For-66
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u156	66. Correction not accepted. Yeah, what are the other adjustments? I see we're done here. Therefore, for reasons of vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u157	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, before the vote with motive, I would like to draw your attention to the two mistakes that National Deputy Tanjuk has made so that they do not go to the polls. The bill, which he referred to as a government bill, could in principle not be an alternative, because, according to the Rules, only the bill that is submitted within 14 days of the main registration can be an alternative. And here's the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u158	And this one's been waiting for four years.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u159	And the second question about the central authorities of executive power. Ladies and gentlemen, open any guide to the list of ministries and committees and next to the Committee on Cultural Affairs is the Academy of Sciences. It's specific, but it's the central authority of the executive branch of science. solves his own questions. So we have to take this into account, and I think, given the state that is in our country today, we have to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u160	Yes, please, Boris Illich, Klukkowski, and we will be determined. Oily microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u161	Thank you. Of course, it is possible for us to enjoy another one that is said to be rich in Ukraine. And really, they're stealing it into pieces and eventually they're 12 years old and they're not, and look at you, and there's still something to pull. But, Your Honor, there is a limit to everything. For now that the thieves have come to the things lying under the earth, they are nowhere else. I ask you to support this law, which does not consider the developers ideal, it will work on the march, but we need to stop these black archaeologists until they turn Ukraine into an area where we stand and appeal to the world with what. And so when we save, we say, "Glory to Ukraine! People of glory! A hero of glory!" Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u162	Klukkowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u163	Yuri Klukkowski, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of Victor Yushchenka's "To Ukraine". Of course, Boris Ivanovich, we will say "Glory to Ukraine!" And I wish that not only words but works were behind it. I would like to draw the attention of the distinguished colleague of Paul’s that he has made a legal discovery today, or perhaps he has told the truth by referring the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine as the unification of scientists to the authorities of the State. Among other things, I have a question for our reporter, who from the rostrum has officially promised to edit something else. So I want to understand the status of these words. Is that what we're going to do here, and then the reporter is going to be editing the text of the law? Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u164	I'll explain instead. Now, Peter Petrovich, you have your say. I'll tell you about the editing. We have established this practice with you, and this is in the Rules, that when the amendment says that he wants changes to be made when the identity committee agrees to make such changes, it is in line with the transcript of our session that these changes are made at the final edition. Lukyanenko and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u165	Ukrainian Republican Party, Yulia Timoshenko faction Deputies! The bill that Toloczko offered us is the first document, the first law that regulates the very important area of our cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u166	Leukko Grigorovich, I gave the vote for reasons. If you have a objection or not, please. We don't discuss the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u167	Adam Ivanovich, that's exactly the motive for the vote. I urge all MPs to vote in favour of this bill, because the state of the inheritance that it is now in is catastrophic. And although this law has some other flaws, of course it's not perfect by 100 percent, but it will be a working document to help save what we have now is a little bit left. Therefore, honourable Members, I ask you to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u168	A draft law on second reading and generally on the protection of an archaeological heritage is put to the vote. Registration number 0951. Please vote. [[11:59:34]] For 267 The law is passed. Dear colleagues! In general, it was adopted in the second and in general, the law was passed. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to the Head of the Counting Commission, Ms. Valery Dmitrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u169	Dear National Deputies, the reckoning commission is ready to vote, you'll have the opportunity at the registration tables to get a white ballot, here are two squares. In one square, you could put some kind of "yes" sign that would match your "yes" or "no" candidate. Ticket is not valid if there are two or no markers. We start voting at 12 o'clock and we finish voting at 12 o'clock, 45 minutes. People's deputies are invited to the registration desks to receive ballot papers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, I ask you to respond with understanding to the report of the head of the Counting Commission, as we need to vote. Thus, a break of up to 12 hours is announced for 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, if you'll excuse me, we'll continue our sessions. The vote ended with a vote on the appointment of the Head of the Court of Auditors, which, according to the law, takes place secretly in the form of ballot papers. That's why we're continuing our meeting. Draft laws on the enforcement of the obligation to move property and amending certain laws of Ukraine are under consideration. [[second reading]] Registration numbers 0939, 0959-1. Demyochin from the profile committee. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Economy, Property and Investment, Vladimir Anatoliyovich Demjochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u172	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies. The Committee on Economic Policy, at its meeting on 18 November, considered the draft Ukrainian Law on the enforcement of movable property obligations, No. 0959, and the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation with regard to the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the enforcement of movable property obligations, 0959-1. These bills aim to improve the system of enforcement and enforcement in order to ensure that both creditors' rights and debtors' rights are properly ensured. But since it was decided by the Supreme Council on 18 November this year to re-read the draft Law on Creditors and Load Registration, this registration number 2336, the Committee decided to recommend repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of 10.02.2000 on the adoption of the above-mentioned drafts on first reading. We request support for this decision of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u173	Yes, please. So the committee is suggesting that we cancel the decision that we made on the first reading. You mean you understood the situation? It's a regular, unusual decision, we rarely talk to him. In principle, I do not recall making similar decisions in this calling. But according to the Rules, such a standard exists. We can cancel decisions, our previous decisions, that's in the Supreme Council's right. That's why I'm putting to the vote the draft decision of the Supreme Council to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt, in the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on the enforcement of obligations by movable property. This is Bill 0959. Please make up your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u174	The Committee requests support. [[12:53:07]] For 206
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u175	The decision is not taken. Give me a second order. On the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the draft Ukrainian Law on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the enforcement of movable property obligations. This is Bill 0959-1. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, we ask for your support. The law has already been adopted on this subject. [[12:53:59]] For 172
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u177	The decision is not taken. The Turks, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u178	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Our faction deliberately does not vote in favour of Law 0959, 0959-1d, 2591, which will now be, 0952, 3273, for the reasons that these laws did not have national deputies last night. We can't get a package today that's hard to bring to the hall, and now we're starting to vote. A comparative table should be distributed at the proper time so that MPs can clear up and vote afterwards. I repeat, four laws that we have now begun to consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u179	Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u180	They were not given at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u181	Your comments do not match the reality. Bill 0959, 0951, which we are discussing, was prepared and distributed for second reading on May 14, 2002. Today, you and I are only considering two draft decrees. The rulings say that they do not propose to adopt these laws in the second reading, but to cancel the results of the vote in the first reading. Therefore, your accusations have no basis. Please, cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u182	We have passed Law 2336 with you, and that is why it is very clear that the decision of the previous year should be repealed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u183	Please, cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u184	Dear Adam Ivanovich, Alexander Turchinov’s comments show that the Chamber of Deputies did not understand what was at stake in the vote. But I would ask you, Adam Ivanovich, to put this law to a vote in the form in which it was put to the second reading. And according to the Rules, if he doesn't get 226 votes, he's considered rejected. So we're practically going to achieve the same goal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u185	Roman Mikhailovich, thank you. I wanted to do it in silence, you said it out loud. Thank you. We'll do that. So, are we done with the procedure? So given that you and I have not supported the committee's proposal, we are looking at draft law number 0959 in our second reading. Please make up your mind about this law. Vote. [[12:56:43]] For-0 [[Applause]] The results of the vote are unique. For the radio audience, I'm going to say yes to negative 0, negative 7, negative 0, negative 438 people's deputies. So the bill is off-limits, and we've solved the question. Same thing, I'm asking you to decide about the bill, number 0959-1. [[12:57:29]] For the It's no less unique, it's three, it's three, it's two, it's not 437, it's just 445 people's deputies. The decision is not taken, the bill is as requested by the committee -- it was withdrawn. There's a bill to amend the Pro-Linging Act, a new edition. Bill number 2591, second reading. Reports the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy for the Management of National Agriculture, Property, and Investments of Matthew Vladimir Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u186	Dear Chairman, distinguished People's Deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy and Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment proposes, for second reading, a draft law on the amendment of the Leasing Act of Ukraine. The finalization of the project took into account the experience of leasing agreements, which had already been accumulated by lease entities in Ukraine, in judicial practice. As well as aligning the bill with the provisions of the new Ukrainian Civil Code. It should be noted that the bill was registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine three months before the publication of the Ukrainian Civil Code and certain provisions required harmonization. In order to remove the dual legal settlement from the text of the bill, the provisions on operational leasing had been deleted, since those issues had been resolved by the provision of the new Ukrainian Civil Code. It met the definition of rent and did not require a special settlement. The draft thus leaves only those rules that set out the specific legal arrangements for financial leasing, as provided for in the Ukrainian Civil Code. In preparing the draft for second reading, 97 proposals were received to the Committee from the Ukrainian people's deputies and the National Bank of Ukraine. Of these, 68 were taken into account in whole or editorial terms, 10 were rejected. It should be noted that a number of proposals have also not been taken into account, since a number of articles to which proposals relate have been deleted in the process of bringing the provisions of the bill into line with the provisions of the new Ukrainian Civil Code. Regarding the comments prepared by the General Legal Office, it should be noted that the draft prepared for which reading is not in fact different from that adopted on first reading. As has already been noted, the draft was drafted prior to the adoption of the new Civil Code, and only the necessary amendments have been made to the second reading in order to comply with the Ukrainian Civil Code. It is fully in line with the concept of financial leasing set out in the Code. The Committee therefore recommends that the bill be adopted on second reading and in general. Next. The Financial Lease Act, which regulates the conclusion and implementation of financial leasing contracts, establishes the rights and obligations of the parties. Therefore, the terminology of the bill is designed to conform to the Civil Code. The definition of financial leasing contained in the Business Income Tax Act is considered to be outdated and generally inconsistent with the development of financial leasing in Ukraine. The Committee is of the view that the rules of the leasing law do not deprive the parties of the right to appeal in court of the executive documents, nor does it deprive them of the right to file a claim for damages. In fact, the unlawful refusal of a leasing contract by the lessee constitutes a violation of the terms of the lease agreement on the duration of use of the property, and in such a case the lessee has the right to claim damages for breach of the terms of the contract. It also has the right to appeal against the executive document on which the leasing facility is returned to the leaser Unlawful refusal of a leaser from a contract also violates the terms of the lease contract and the payment of leasing payments. The leasing agent has the right to claim damages caused by such non-compliance with the contract. The Committee is of the view that the bill is not contrary to the provisions of the Act on Enforcement, since it does not provide for enforcement of decisions, but merely provides for the immediate execution of the executive inscription of the notary. Part three of article 25 of the Act on Enforcement provides that immediate enforcement is subject to decisions in cases provided for by law. The bill proposes to establish an immediate inscription of the notary on the return of the lease to the lessee, and this is consistent with the world practice of regulating financial leasing and the essence of financial leasing. With regard to the comments to the article of the leasing object registration bill in this article, the registration of not all leasing items, the registration of a particular type of property transferred to a leasing, if the need for such registration is established by law. For example, vehicles, aircraft, floaters and so on. In connection with the Committee, it proposes the adoption of a draft law amending the leasing law on second reading and in general the proposed revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u187	Yes, my fellow Members, we see that 38 amendments have been rejected by the National Bank of Ukraine. They don't have any representatives. Amendment number 47. Insomnia. Don't insist. Amendment 57. National Bank of Ukraine. There is no representative. Gorbachev, amendment 56. There's no insistence on Gorbachev. 72, National Bank of Ukraine. 77 is the same thing. Gorbachev, 80 revisions. Don't insist. Amendment 89, Gorbachev. Don't insist. Same thing as the '90s Gorbachev. Gorbal, 93. Don't insist. Everything else is accounted for. That's why I'm putting to the vote a motion for a committee to adopt in the second reading and in the whole Act amending the Pro Lizing Act of Ukraine. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 2591]] [[13:04:28]] For 372 The law is passed. Workman, what is it? Please, it's the robot's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u188	Dear colleagues! An extraordinary situation has caused you to turn to him. In the city of Uzhgorod, a group of individuals, nine persons from the racketeer's exterior, seized the premises of the Expeditor. At the legal requirements of the judicial authorities and the executive service, they ignored the premises. In fact, this is done by the inaction of the prosecutor’s office and the inaction of the police. The company is surrounded by cars and racketeers with machine guns. Regrettably, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has removed this problem. So I ask you to consider my statement as a question of parliament and please immediately contact two ministries: the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Internal Affairs for immediate response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u189	Please provide the necessary documents. A bill of the Law on the right of municipal property and the administration of objects of municipal property rights is being heeded. [[second reading]] Registration number 0952. Reports the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of the national economy, property, and investment of Matthew Vladimir Josephovich. Please, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u190	Yuri Klukkowski, Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. Dear colleagues! This is an extremely important and vital law. However, when preparing for his second reading, he did not go through the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. And there are certain sheroquities involved, in fact, with the problem of authority of local governments. We ask for this on behalf of the committee, and this position is agreed with the head of the committee to postpone consideration of this bill in second reading for the next plenary week, and our committee undertakes to review it quickly, to calculate all of these places together with the profile committee and to take the session to the next week. Please support us very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u191	The Committee has no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u192	Yes, but I want to make one point. Was there two committees or just one? There was a commission for a committee. So please. You don't object, but we need more room backing up. No objections? Then we agree. The question is being considered. A draft law amending article 6 of the Ukrainian law on the legal regime of property in the Ukrainian Armed Forces on the alienation of military property is being complied with. Another reading. Registration number 3272. Report to the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kruchkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u193	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The first reading of this bill was adopted, and the second reading included six suggestions that were all taken into account. The project is designed to regulate the transfer of complete assets, buildings, buildings, and other immovable property that are in the military for implementation and municipal property. The law that we recently passed regulates this issue in article 7 of the law on the transfer of property and property, but we need to harmonize these two bills. In preparing for the second reading, the Chief Legal Authority made a point, noting that the law had become effective since its publication. Subsidies are foreseen not only for the following year but for the following years. With this in mind, the committee requests that this law be passed in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u194	As you have heard from the report of the committee’s chairman, all the amendments, the proposals that came from the legislators, are included in the project. That's why I'm putting to a second-read vote and, as a whole, the Law on Amendments to Article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Property in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, registration number 3273. [[on the alienation of military property]] Please vote. [[13:10:01]] For-170. In view of the fact that we have already rereaded it once again, the project is off the table. There is a draft law on freedom of movement and free choice of residence in Ukraine, registration number 1089. [[second reading]] Reports the Head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations of Hennady Josephovich Udovenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u195	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, your honor. Article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine states that only the laws of Ukraine define: the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, the guarantees of these rights and freedoms and the basic duties of a citizen. Perhaps no one has any doubt that freedom of movement and free choice of residence in Ukraine is an integral right of a citizen. But this right should be in accordance with the Constitution defined by law. Your opinion is proposed by the draft Law on Freedom of Movement and the free choice of residence in Ukraine, prepared for second reading. The bill, given the importance of the problem to be settled by law, worked carefully on the committee. One hundred and eighty-eight proposals from national deputies, including 108. And we are grateful to the people's deputies for their suggestions. The draft law was carried out by an international expert at the Council of Europe and the OSCE, in the structures of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and also in a number of law-enforcement social organizations. The bill proposed for second reading is supported by these institutions. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council has no comments on the draft law and suggests that it be adopted in a second reading. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yanukovic, also addressed the Head of the Supreme Council with a proposal to speed up the adoption of this law. I would like to point out that this is a very liberal law. He foresees the registration of a natural person, not the registration of a natural person, but the registration of a person’s place of residence. This law is not of a permissive nature on the part of the executive branch; it is a law of a reporting nature on the part of a natural person. A citizen writes a statement and says that I choose a place to live on this territorial administrative unit. That's it. We don't ask him for papers, just a statement and a very small amount, one more help. We don't have any more requirements for a citizen in this regard. On page 14, however, a revision of the editorial character should be made. Instead of the words "housing address," delete those words and insert "dwelling place." And after "living seven days," put a dot. And so remove the words after the change of address. Once again, I would like to point out that this is a very liberal and progressive law, which applies to every citizen of our nation in connection with the exception of penance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u196	Thank you, Gennady Josephovich. But you may agree with me that not everything liberal is very democratic, and Russia's experience has shown it. So let's, please, in this way: which of the authors of the amendments insists that we consider its amendments, those that are not included? Unburned, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u197	Boris Bespalij, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Dear Gennady Josephovich, indeed, I support the committee's full position here, very good law and it is truly awaited by millions of people, unlike penitentiaries. Because how would you view that proposal, which is 137th, in the final positions on 29th page, on 29th page, in order to give, directly in the final positions of this text, a list of those laws, precisely the laws that need to be repealed immediately, because we have a board of laws: there is no, this is confirmed by the Constitutional Court, but there is a lot of different legal acts at different levels that actually legitimize it. So it's a pen and it's not, and it's like it's a pen. So perhaps it is by this law that these acts would be repealed and resolved as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u198	Boris Yakovic, you're right, this is a substantial addition, but it is provided, and your corresponding amendment included, paragraph three: "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine within three months of the date of entry into force of this law, prepare and submit proposals to the Supreme Council for bringing Ukraine's legislative acts into conformity with this law. " In our letter to the Cabinet of Ministers, we'll also note this offer of yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u199	Boris Jakovitch agreed. Other legislators? You don't? Then I put to the vote the Law on second reading and in general on freedom of movement and free choice of residence in Ukraine, registration number 1089, taking into account the proposal made by the head of the profiling committee on page 14 to make the changes that he has made. Please vote. [[13:16:57]] For 326 Thank you. 326 - decision taken. I give the floor to the head of the Counting Commission to National Deputy Mishuri Valeri Dmitrovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u200	Dear colleagues! Before I introduce you to Protocol No. 2 of the Counting Commission, I would like to inform you that while voting for the initiative of a number of national deputies to the Counting Commission, charity has been invested in the Christmas tree for orphans. The commission decided to transfer the funds to the head of the Committee, who knew about the issues of childhood and motherhood, Samuelka Katherina Semenovni. With regard to the results of the vote. Simonek Valentino Kostinović’s candidacy was included in the secret ballot on the appointment of the head of the Court of Auditors. On the basis of the results of the secret ballot, the Counting Commission established the number of Ukrainian national deputies recognized as being 449. The number of Ukrainian national deputies who received secret ballots is 392. The number of national deputies who took part in the vote is 389. The number of ballots declared invalid is 2. They were submitted to the Counting Commission after the urns had been opened. Simonenko Valentin Kostinović "for" received 382 votes. There's a five against the candidate. In accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 10 of the Law of Ukraine on the Court of Auditors and chapter 3.7 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee of Counts has decided to consider the head of the Chamber of Auditors, Valentino Kostinović, to whom we welcome him.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u201	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Allow me, on behalf of the entire Supreme Council and the 382 national deputies who supported Valentin Kostinović, to extend a warm welcome to him with a post that has a direct bearing on Parliament. Because the House of Accounts, on behalf of the Supreme Council, is performing its functions. To want him to get what he wants very much and very much: to change the 98th article of the Constitution. And I think we'll all do it together in the very near future so that not only does he control what he's spending, but he also gets it. Good luck, Valentina Costinovich, let the House of Accounts count well. He's listening. I would like to see Parliament, a monolithous Supreme Council, always as it has in dealing with this issue. There's a bill on amending the Ukrainian Law on Retirement for Special Retirement before Ukraine. Second reading, registration number 3011. Reports the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u202	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I'm likely to be the most comfortable reporter today. The committee was commissioned by the Supreme Council to draft a bill submitted by the national deputies Anastasia and Gerasimov, number 3011. We worked closely on this document, reconciled it with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. There are 4 suggestions and comments. They're all accounted for. So I propose that the committee decide to support this document. I'm asking you to support this document by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u203	Sorry, no questions, Olga Petrovna. So, please, who has any unaccounted for? All adjustments are taken into account. Olga Petrovna, ask directly. Yes, please, Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand, and I would like to hear again before the vote for this bill. Of course, these supplements, which were introduced today, that the veterans of the Great Homeland War, who received the "For Courage" award or the Ukrainian Medals, but who were awarded these medals after May 9, 1945, would be subject to the law on retirement for special merit before Ukraine? Is that a question taken into account?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u205	That's absolutely right. It's one of the key norms of this law, it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u206	Yeah, that's it. Anatoly Ivanovich, is your amendment? Call her number. Please, let's determine. Please. With motive? But only on the grounds of the vote, because I'm going to turn off the microphone. Domanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to vote in favour of this law. Why? Because he's a nationalist. Our Ukrainians worked in Kazakhstan, Belarus, became deserving artists of those republics, folk artists, and this law does not provide for this. What, are we just Ukrainians? I suggest you add "and also the republic of the former Soviet Union."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u208	Anatoly Ivanovich, there's nothing in this bill that you're talking about. This bill has very different categories of attitude -- to those who were awarded or presented was to the prize by the highest military mark -- the Medal of Courage. That's why I'm putting to the vote the second reading and the whole Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine. [[Registration number 3011]] Please vote. [[13:23:38]] For 283 Thank you, 283, the law has been passed. There is a bill of approval of parliamentary hearings. [[second reading]] [[Registration number 3746]] Reports Koval Viacheslav Stanislavovich, deputy head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. Please,
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u209	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Rules and Organizations of Work of the Supreme Council discussed the second draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Approval of Parliamentary Hearings, which was adopted on September 11th at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 3746 from 19.07.2003]] The proposals and comments to the draft decision, which came from the national deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour, Health, Motherhood and Childhood, Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications, Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism, European Integration, National Deputies of Ukraine Bespalog, Karmazin, Pejchota and others, Deputies and Groups, and the conclusions of the Main Scientific and Experimental Directorate, were considered during the drafting or processing process. After considering all these comments and suggestions made by the Ukrainian people’s deputies, virtually all the proposals that could be taken into account were taken into account. The National MP Karmazin submitted a completely different bill, another position on public hearings in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. These suggestions were conceptually contrary to the content of this draft decree, which was adopted in the first reading, so unfortunately the committee could not take into account the proposals of the national deputy Carmazin. Prepared by the committee for second reading, the draft regulation is in line with part two of article 6.6 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, organized by the deputy director of the General Legal Directorate, with some comments on the position of hearings on the Committees of the Supreme Council, which are proposed to reject the said position. The Committee requests the support of a draft decree prepared by the Committee for second reading by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the approval of provisions for parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and hearings on the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 3746]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u210	Thank you. Dear colleagues! You're welcome to mobilize. I'm just before we get to the point, directly, of this bill, all the more, we don't get to look at draft regulations very rarely in the second reading. So it's a unique decision, but it's also a unique question. To date, there is no position, no regulation on how to conduct parliamentary hearings. And so we take them to our own discretion, as the committee proposes, so it goes. But unfortunately, it's nowhere, it's not settled. That is why we need, honourable colleagues, to do everything we can today in order to settle these issues by the Supreme Council, by means of a decision and to be guided by it. Let's do it this way. Let us look at the adjustments that he has made, which he has not taken into account, and then we will consider. Please, Pehota, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u211	Adam Ivanovich, thank you so much for giving me your word. The point is that I fully support your thesis on settling these issues, but not the way we did it in this decision. Because in this regulation we violate the Constitution, in this regulation we violate the regulations, the rules of procedure, and we attribute to our parliamentary hearing the functions that only the Supreme Council has today or are governed by the Constitution. To accept these questions, we need to make changes to the Constitution, make changes to regulations, and continue to act according to regulations. By the way, the first question that stands and the first point, where it's written, that my observations are taken into account, is the very principle of all of the provisions of this regulation. It is not included there because it is recorded by parliamentary hearings of the function of monitoring the implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine, the rulings of the Supreme Council, and then they take my note "within the limits of the powers of the Supreme Council defined by the Constitution." That's exactly what the Constitution authorizes. It doesn't give parliamentary hearings. So I would count, because yesterday, when I got this comparative table, I made a second letter to the regulatory committee. I thank you for having received a number of comments. But the main point is that this law, as I write it, and the Legal Department, and the Analytical Department, doesn't correspond to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. So I would count on us not to be offended by each other, to postpone this determination, to postpone and re-examine within the framework of the Constitution and the law, and not accept it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u212	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u213	Dear National Deputies, the distinguished National Deputy of Pehota, it's not about control, it's about the point you're talking about, I'm going to read his final version. "Parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council of Ukraine are being conducted with the aim of studying the issues of internal and foreign policy of a State that is of social interest and requiring legislative regulation of the implementation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine, the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine within the limits of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine defined by the Constitution of Ukraine." Well, where there is a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, if parliamentary hearings study the situation concerning the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or any other matter of social interest, and develop recommendations that are then taken into account in the plenary session of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u214	30 seconds of infantry, but no more.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u215	I understand that I support what I study, but that's when it comes to making decisions. If it were to end with the adoption of appropriate recommendations, there are no questions. And if we're going to make the decisions that we're going to continue to deal with all these issues, there's a contradiction. So I don't, I don't have that kind of comment, but there's a principle to what it's regulated, recommendations or regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u216	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u217	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Our Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! An unprecedented case where the proposals submitted are not included in the table. And they don't include a committee that calls itself the Regulatory Committee. In general, I think that after this, the Regulatory Committee needs to be disbanded, to save money now, because it doesn't perform any functions. Infantry's national deputy is absolutely right. And I have a few other arguments. I say that this project, a position that has been drafted, contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine, in particular paragraph 21 of the first article 92, according to which the organization and order of activities of the Supreme Council are determined solely by the laws of Ukraine. And part five of article 82, according to which order of work is established by the Constitution and the Law on Rules. I would also like to say that today our work is regulated by the Supreme Council Committee Act, which in accordance with the Constitution operates in a part that does not conflict with the Constitution, and it regulates matters relating to the organization of committees, including the organization of hearings in committees. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Chief Legal Authority and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority have one general conclusion that this project is subject to rejection as one that is contrary to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u218	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyovich, everyone has a conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u219	I was not given the opportunity, so I had to.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u220	And he read it. You were not authorized by any legal authority to represent their interests. You represent your interests, not the interests of the Legal Authority. The Legal Office will report to the PIC. Who among the authors of the amendments that have been tabled, not counted, insists on giving him the word? You were told why you had submitted them after the deadlines for submitting the amendments had come up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u221	Honorable national MPs, when the law or the bill or the decree and the project adopted in the first reading are no longer allowed to bring another ideology into consideration. With all due respect to Yuri Anatoliyovich, we were unable to consider a draft regulation that contained an absolute ideology called, otherwise, other principles, another legal act. And another thing, the distinguished national MPs, to this day, each committee, or committee head, or committee secretary, have been engaged in personal creativity. He suggested holding parliamentary hearings as he saw it. The Regulatory Committee proposes to organize, bring it in and try to get to the organized, improved organization and parliamentary hearings. This is our task.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u222	Thank you. Viacheslav Stanislavovich, right here in one of Karmazin’s national deputies, was entitled to reject the amendments, but they had to be put in the table and written that they were rejected. Yuri Anatolyevich, you're right. [[B in m in s a l in]] Carmazin had every reason to insist, and he was right about his amendments being included in the table. All of it. Dear colleagues, we will now be determined. I would ask you once again to understand one thing -- this is the Supreme Council's ruling, this is our decision with you, let's take it, work in this order to do our hearings. If practice shows that they don't settle, it's bad, we're going to make changes right away, because it's up to us and it's up to us. Please, Infantry, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u223	Adam Ivanovich, I'm sorry, I'm sure I'm reading 10 points here: according to the parliamentary hearings, the Supreme Council takes a decision on sums and so forth. This is where the dog is trapped, because it doesn't fit the Constitution. I'm for what you say: work, try. But the language goes, if we want, let's form the law, let's form the changes to the Constitution, let's go legally. I don't mind having more control functions in Parliament, but it should go through the Constitution, through the Rules of Procedure Act, not through the decree, because no one will do it. It won't have any power.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u224	Vladimir Yuliyovich, you're absolutely right, but right now, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, let me explain. But now, according to the results of each parliamentary hearing, we make a decision to recommend parliamentary hearings. We cannot simply make recommendations to parliamentary hearings without a decision. Any decision you and I make here is made in the form of a decision. It's called Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations. And the recommendation of parliamentary hearings is a recommendation, not a ruling. Here's the thing. That any decision is made by a decision. So there's no contradiction here, I think that's what we understand, the recommendation decision, let's write. The recommendation is accepted, and the recommendation is made by a decision. Satisfied Vladimir Juliusovich, accepted?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u225	Adam Ivanovich, it's written just like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u226	One more, please, Infantry microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u227	I'm sorry. Adam Ivanovich, if, as you say, as far as recommendations are being accepted, there should be no double interpretation, but “take a decision” and “take recommendations” on that. That's the first one. And in the first paragraph, you have to say: The internal and external policies of the state and those of social interest." "...to throw it away." they need a legislative settlement.'cause it's not a prerogative of hearing. "..the state of execution of the Cabinet of Ministers" is not a prerogative of hearing. And then we're like, " Within the limits of the powers of the Supreme Council defined by the Constitution," and all. And throw away the inside. So the text is replaced.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u228	Okay. So let's agree, with the proposal that instead of a decision -- recommendations -- we agree. In terms of the Cabinet of Ministers, we often listen to information at parliamentary hearings, namely the Cabinet of Ministers, one or the other. There's nothing, I don't think. All of it. Please, once again, the Infantry and we'll vote. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u229	The Constitution, I apologize, provides for article 113 of the Constitution: The Cabinet of Ministers is governed by the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine and the acts of the President. If this is formed by law, then you're right. Adam Ivanovich, you're not listening to me!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u230	Exchanged thoughts. I'll put it to a vote. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Since Vladimir Yuliyovich insists on his second amendment, Amendment 2, I ask you to identify yourself. Amendment No. 2 of the People's Deputies of Infantry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u231	The committee does not support this. [[13:40:22]] For-191
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u232	Not supported. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I propose to vote in favour of the Supreme Council's decree to approve the parliamentary hearings, taking into account the proposals made by the Pehota People's Deputies, that the parliamentary hearings should be followed by recommendations. [[Catherine Timothy!]] Please vote in general. [[13:41:11]] For 318 Thank you very much, 318. Dear colleagues, we've done a very, very good job with you: we've settled what we had, well, it's not settled, and it hasn't done us any good. I'm talking to you again, it's our internal decision. When we work on the implementation of the decision and see that something has to be changed, we'll change it -- and there's no problem, no one will stop us from doing it. Thank you very much for your support. Nicolanca, please. One minute, no more.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u233	Dear national deputies, dear Adam Ivanovich! Nikolainka, head of the Committee on Science and Education, Faction of the SPI. I would ask today, on behalf of many thousands of students, to support, vote. First, put it into the agenda and then vote on the basis of the second reading of the Act amending the 2003 State Budget. This bill is introduced by a group of national deputies, such as I introduce, Gavrish introduces, Rodionov, Sitnik and others. [[Nicaragua]] What are we talking about? It's about paying off the accounts payable in the past few years for utility services and energy supplies for educational institutions. About 44 million dollars. You and I have already voted on this, but things have changed. That's why the Budget Committee is for, Minfin is for.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u234	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Have a seat, please. I'll tell you what, sit down. So, yes, dear fellows, be careful. If there's any agreement, we're going to move a little away from the order of our work. If you don't mind, I'll put it to a vote. Is there no objection? That's why I'm putting to the vote to include and consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the 2003 State Budget for Ukraine on creditors' debt for municipal services of educational institutions. [[Registration number 4480]] Please vote. [[13:43:50]] For 332 Thank you. 332, decision taken. Questions are included in the agenda. The question is included in the agenda, and we're going to talk about it a little bit. Please, Stanislaw Mikolaiovich. Any questions? Procedure? 3:44:19.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u235	Dear colleagues! I have come to realize that the Ukrainian national deputies are proposing to vote in the first reading and in general. But, Adam Ivanovich, one question. Minfin has just clarified the amounts of debt, and the framework, not changing these numbers, we need from the techs, it's the first and second levels of accreditation to subtract 4.8 million, pass them on to the vocational schools and 0.2 to the physical training of the student and student youth. I mean, without changing the number inside the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u236	Who represents the interests of the Cabinet of Ministers? Is Minfin there? Please, your opinion. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! We ask for the support of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u237	I'm asking for an editorial, which is now proposed by Nikolaynko. Yes, of course. Dear colleagues! I see a forest of hands. I'm out of procedure. So I'm giving you five minutes out of procedure. Sign up. They insist. Please explain. Five minutes, but out of procedure, your honor. Yeah? Thank you. After him, Suhi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u238	Dear Adam Ivanovich! I have no doubt in any way that what we have now voted on and will discuss requires a decision. I have a question. We have the Labour Code on our agenda. The subject, in my view, is far more fundamental than what we are discussing today. And let us, to some extent, focus on what is basic, not what is today's mountain, with the correctness of our colleague Nikolaenko's question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u239	Vasil Ivanovich, who said the Labour Code would not be considered? No one said. And please don't argue. It's not my definition, it's 332 people's deputies who have decided to take a look at this issue right now. Why are you accusing me? Please, Dry. Follow him, Gunner.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u240	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Of course, the bill is vitally important, and I ask you to convey your word in connection with this Ukrainian national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u241	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'm happy for the reaction of our Ukrainians, so everything we do, we do the right thing. Dear colleagues, today we are destined to vote for these changes, we must support our educational institutions. But, Adam Ivanovich, I'm out of procedure. Today, there are three more bills that relate to the 2003 budget. After a positive, I hope, vote on this bill, I ask that we look at it as soon as possible. These are bills 4171, 4348 and 4428. The decision of the Budget Committee on this subject is. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u242	But I know that the decision of the hall is not as clear as the bill that we are currently considering. So let's keep going. Please, Gorenik, follow him, Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u243	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill was worked in detail yesterday on the Committee on Budgets and found, virtually, unanimous support. So it's a procedure. Firstly, I propose to vote in the first reading and in general, and not to deviate from the rules, because the rest of the bills had no such unequivocal support. And this one is really important. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u244	Thank you. Please, Vaszczuk, follow her, Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u245	Indeed, the bill is important. All I have is an appeal to my colleague, Nikolaynka, and to my representative, not only the Ministry of Education, but the same institutions of technology, universities, and the Ministry of Education are in the Ministry of Education. So that this ministry has the same mutual right, let's say the Gorokhiv Agricultural Technicum, Volin Region, is no longer on fire today, turned off from the light because it's so off budget. So I'm asking you to extend this to MinAPC as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u246	Konovaluk, he's behind Budjigan.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u247	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I really confirm that we have made a positive decision on the budget committee. And, Adam Ivanovich, the matter really needs to be resolved urgently. I want to invite you, stop voting and move on to the following questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u248	Dear colleagues, the first deputy chairman of the committee spoke. The head of the committee confirms that this is true, right? Dusty's asking for a word. Please. Because he's a profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u249	Dear colleagues, the budget committee discussed the bill yesterday at its meeting. We voted in favour of including him in the agenda and making a decision. So you certainly have the right to know the meaningful part of this bill. And then many questions that have now been asked in the plenary will come to an end. In fact, we need to carry out this assignment. And it was caused by the fact that in previous years, unlike other sectoral educational institutions, the educational institutions of the Ministry of Education and Science were underfunded. And it was the sum of underfunding, not some abstract sum, that was allowed by the author of the bill to make these calls. According to the information that has been verified, in the budget committee, we are fully indebted for those educational establishments that have not been funded in the previous years' budget debt. There is one procedural problem that arises from our positive vote, because I have no doubt that our session room will support this bill. This problem is that if we vote on other amendments to the 2003 Budget Act, we will find ourselves in a situation where when changes are made we do not know what to take as a basis: either an active budget, or a budget that takes into account the changes that have been voted on. So yesterday, the Budget Committee decided that in the case of a positive vote, we would be able to merge these bills or allow the Budget Committee, when preparing the budget for signing, to take the numbers into account in additions. The honourable chairman's request to put this bill to the vote with these comments. Because otherwise we're just going to find ourselves in a situation where we don't know how to prepare this bill for signing. Thank you for your attention. Once again, the decision of the Budget Committee is to support the bill submitted for your consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u250	No, Peter Alexiyovich, I didn't quite understand what you were asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u251	The first decision. I ask your support because the Committee on Budgets has supported it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u252	It's understandable, secondly, that you want us to assign you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u253	The other one. In the event that other legislative acts are voted on, a colleague of Shufrich, other national deputies, is also in the order of the day, then there is no way to prepare changes to the budget. Because it's the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u254	Peter Alexiyovich, we are currently considering this bill, based on the fact that it does not raise any objections in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u255	Please take the request into account in the following cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u256	Given that other draft amendments to the 2003 budget are not as clear as they are here, we will consider them when they are approached. Thank you. No questions asked, Peter Alexiovich, everything is clear. I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian National Budget 2003 Act, registration number 4480, with proposals made here by the head of the Nikolaynko Committee and supported by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, to adopt as a whole as a law. [[on accounts payable for municipal services of educational institutions]] Please vote. [[13:53:48]] For 429 A record number of votes passed the law. I don't think there's gonna be any veto. And he was accepted as a law as a whole. Please, no other suggestions, you're not gonna knock me out. In view of the fact that we have spent time voting with you today. So I'm going to continue the session for 15 minutes and we're going to consider further questions. A draft of the Ukrainian Labour Code is being followed, and a decision is being taken as a result of the first reading, which took place on December 10. These are Bills 1038, 1038-1, 1038-2. Reported, well, probably Vasil Georgievich Hara, the Committee on Social Policy. [[Here are the two committees responsible]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u257	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it was only yesterday that we considered all these three bills. I'll remind you very briefly of the fresh memory. First Law 1038 of the People's Deputy of Konovaluka, 1038-1 submitted by the Government of Ukraine, but prepared by an interdepartmental working group on a tripartite basis, consisting of trade unions, employers and the State party. It is in line with the codes - civil, economic and consistent with the international conventions of ILO, international standards. And the Committee decided to ask you to support it on first reading. And Bill 1038-2 we discussed with you yesterday, too, the Hubsky and a number of other people's deputies, our committee, I repeat, proposes to adopt Bill 1038-1 as a basis and, in agreement with the authors of other bills, all the best of what is in their bills in preparation for the second reading to be taken into account in the Labour Code, registration number 1038-1. Please support the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u258	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will be determined. Now, now. We have three bills. As they stand, we will be determined. For reasons of vote, Lechchenko and Onichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u259	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! If today's code of action did protect some of the employees' rights, then the one proposed by the committee would protect the exploiters, that is, the code aimed at increasing the exploitation of hired workers. I propose to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u260	Please, Onechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u261	Dear colleagues! It is well known that the Labour Code is a fundamental legal instrument, for it affects the interests of three subjects: employees, employers, and the state. And usually the drafting of such a bill should reflect the balance of three of these subjects. Only one of the proposed codes, particularly government codex, was developed on a tripartite basis. In which employers, trade unions, and the state participated. So I'm asking you to support the government bill as a basis for further work on improving it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u262	Please, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u263	Alexander Stoyan, head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. Dear colleagues! You remember that yesterday, during the discussion, I spoke and said that yes, the trade unions had made substantial remarks to the draft codex. But after the meeting of the vice-premier, there's a protocol in which all the remarks made by the trade unions, I emphasize, will be taken into account. Therefore, there is reason to vote for the government code. I'm asking you to support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u264	So that's it. Please, I'm taking three minutes to process, please sign up, because the procedure will take us 30 minutes!!!Oh, my God! Sign up. Light up, please. I promised Kirilenko, after him Lukyanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u265	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! The "Our Ukraine" faction, in general, believes that the Labour Code is being rewritten in time. At the same time, it cannot become an object for continuing to narrow down the social rights of workers. If we reduce the minimum wage, virtually reduce the average pension, make an unfair living minimum, we should not introduce discriminatory articles into the new edition of the Labour Code. At the same time, I was informed yesterday that there is a protocol of differences between government and trade, and all the issues that cause anxiety in the faction will be resolved. The only thing we're being warned about is that the government and the unions are now one faction. So I would like, and I think it's not just me, that we now hear from the government once again that the differences on the most important social issues are settled in a public and transparent way, taking into account the thinking of all factions. Then we can make decisions about voting for the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u266	Thank you. Please, Lukyanenko. He's got Musiak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u267	Lukyanenko. Please pass the word to Turkey's Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u268	Turn on Turkinov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u269	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. In our faction, there were a lot of comments about this code, especially the actual ban on strikes, and the persecution of citizens who are released without any reason, and the restrictions on the activities of the unions, and so on and so forth. Now the minister has approached us, he says that somehow there's a protocol of these things all taken off, which have raised questions in our faction in truly independent unions. But, dear fellows, these are still words. We have to testify that, in fact, in the document that will now be voted on, there is no such thing. So our proposal, Adam Ivanovich, is to both you and the minister who sits in the government bed. Let's take this vote down and move it to the next sessional day when the Supreme Council is voting, so that we can really make sure that all our warnings are taken into account and there are no contradictions and limitations to the rights of our citizens in the Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u270	Thank you. Please, Musiak. Well, Hinzburg, I see. Please, Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u271	I'm going to College Hinzburg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u272	Hinsburg microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u273	Thank you. The Communist faction. Yesterday, very many comments were made to these three bills. And the main problems in these three bills today were that there is no answer: first, ensuring the proper protection of the employment of young people and minors, the responsibility for their work; and second, the release and admission to work, and where a workbook can be found, its design; third, the question is, some MPs have even thought about stopping the activities of those who have to take part in the strike. There's a right to fight. It's a faction of Communists, and as we spoke yesterday, we suggested that there was no point in supporting these bills today, because we have a better law today that provides more for human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u274	Thank you. Please, Papiev and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u275	Thank you. Dear National Deputies, on December 9, 2003, a meeting was held where we clearly and clearly agreed, and the appendix to this protocol is a protocol of differences, that we of the 7 points that we have raised substantive remarks from professional associations have withdrawn these issues and agreed to an editorial with professional associations and with the Committee of the Supreme Council. [[I have a record of this meeting under the signatures of the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Tobacco, the Minister of Papiev, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Harry and of the All-Ukrainian Trade Unions, the head of the FPU National Deputy Stoyan.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u276	Yes, please, Hubsky as the author of the bill. Turn on the hub microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u277	The distinguished Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished colleagues, the MP group of the People's Authority presented its view of the Labour Code yesterday. We think that the Labour Code is just the document that will protect the rights and freedoms and the peasants and the workers and all the employees. Yesterday, after lunch, there were fruitful discussions with the authors of other bills, and the Cabinet of Ministers, they say, not only agreed, but made a commitment to take into account all the positive proposals from that document presented by the MP group "The People's Government". So that's why the People's Government MP group is also ready to support the harmonized version of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u278	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have just announced that I am granting the right to sign up and speak out for three minutes. I see now again a forest of hands wishing to speak out of motives. We're turning it into a discussion already, that's not motive. Don't get excited for nothing. Now let's do it this way. Are they insisting? A representative of each faction, one minute who wants to speak from the faction, says with motive and no more. Please, Stoyan, don't run the Supreme Council. I gave you what you didn't have yesterday, so behave yourself. Who from the Communist faction? Gmira, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u279	Thank you. Here, Alexander Stoyan said that there was a mass of shortcomings in the document, but that the Government had promised to take it into account. When? Excuse me, please, why wasn't he taught on first reading? On second reading, I'm sorry, it's not a government document. Will you take him into account after the first reading? Why is the text of today's law not amended by the Government's promise to make? Dear colleagues! The mass of letters goes to the deputy that there is no need to adopt this code. In particular, it is the largest trade union such as the metal industry. Sorry, it's the only working industry in Ukraine. Are you trying to get it? The opinion of the CC of the metal trade union is the largest trade union in Ukraine. They are absolutely against this bill. That's gotta be taken into account, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u280	By the way, about what the GM said, this is where the People's Deputy Stoyan says another thing, but he has a project by Stoyan and Volinz that says, "Go back to the first reading." Please, from the socialists of Vernigor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u281	The Legion of Vernigor, a socialist faction. I want to re-emphasize what I was talking about and make a statement yesterday. Dear Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev, on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers, assured the entire Supreme Council and all the workers of Ukraine that these seven warnings that we make during the year during the preparation of this code are recorded as being unlawful in this law. I don't know, reverend Michael Mikolaiovich, but look at me, and I look into your eyes. If we have done so, we should vote in favour of the first reading today. Why today? This will be the law of neither Mr. Konovaluk nor Homutinnik, nor anyone. It's the collective work of Parliament and the government to finally have a code.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u282	Thank you. Please, Social Democrats, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u283	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDP. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask everyone, without words, without pathetic, we need to allow the government to begin this process today. I remind everyone, we vote in the first reading of the Labour Code. We will have plenty of time and opportunities to improve it, time goes forward, socio-economic change and transformation of society, however it may be, we need to improve. I considered and considered some bills to be mature, immature. The most mature and written bill is, of course, the government, which can be the basis. Therefore, I propose to vote on the basis of the bill of government so that the bill of honorary colleague Konovaluk and Hubski enter from the component during the second reading. Let's give the government and the Supreme Council the opportunity to work on the Labour Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u284	The regions of Ukraine, Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u285	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in spite of all the remarks, I believe that this is the first document and I cannot give any other examples when it came to introducing Parliament on a tripartite basis. First, I introduced the Labour Code back in 2000, and it worked repeatedly. So we were, let's say, we were constantly working in this area both with the unions, both with the public, and with employers. So let's not just think about something there. I believe that this document will solve many of the problems that exist in the field of labour. I'm willing to agree with the government project and take into account all the advantages that are now in the Labour Codes, both by my authorship and by my esteemed colleague Hubsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u286	Thank you. "Our Ukraine," Yehanurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u287	Yuri Yehanurov, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear colleagues, Bill 1038-1 is a document developed by the National Council of Social Partnerships. The government simply submits as the subject of a legislative initiative. A document that was developed over several years. And this is the object of compromise that we have achieved as a result of huge and long, sharp discussions. He has the right to go through the first reading. Then we will be able to compromise these nine books by the second reading procedure for at least six months. So we have to vote now in first reading 38-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u288	Please, People's Landing, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u289	Thank you. Dear Lugansk Region, People's Choice. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today we are making a decision on first reading, whether we basically agree or not, or whether we will live under the Labour Act, under the KZOT, which was adopted in the early 1980s. What are we talking about? Next moment. When we talk about motivation, what to support and what not to support. I note that Bill 1038-1 by employers has an opinion, there is an opinion on the part of trade unions, and there is an opinion on the part of the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection. On a large scale, all participants, including the two committees of the Supreme Council, said that this was something that could be followed up on second and third readings. What are we talking about? Deeply convinced that everything else is largely an insinuation when they begin to explain why we cannot support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u290	Thank you. Now we're going to figure it out. That's how we vote in the cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u291	Dear National Deputies! This draft code narrows down the rights of workers laid down in previous laws in the previous Labour Code. According to article 22 of the Constitution, we cannot adopt laws that restrict or restrict the rights of our citizens, in this case millions of our workers. And in order to adopt a quality law, you have to send it out for first reading, let all the comments be taken into account, let it get involved with this problem, and free unions, because we know how the parking unions protect our laborers. And only then will it be possible to vote for him in the first reading. If we vote in the first reading today, it will be too late to change the concept of this code.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u292	Thank you. Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u293	That's why I'm asking you to send it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-11-m0.u294	Dear colleagues, we have already spoken more than any Rules have allowed. I'm voting on the draft Ukrainian Labour Code in the first reading. Registration number 1038 is voting. [[14:13:31]] For-127 The decision is not taken. Registration number 1038-1 is voting. [[14:13:56]] For 318 Draft Ukrainian Labour Code, registration number 1038-1, adopted in the first reading. The factions. The decision was voted "Our Ukraine" - 78, "The Regions of Ukraine" - 64, communists - 0, "The Hard Ukraine" - 42, "The Social Democrats - 35, "The People's Government" - 20, "The People's Government" - 8, "Timoshenko - 0, "Deminicatives" - 16, "The Agrarian Party - 13, "The People's Choice" - 13, "The People's Choice" - 13, "The Non-Flocked" - 16. [[United]] Dear colleagues, there is a break of 16 hours. At 4: 00 p.m., you and I will discuss matters related to the appointment and release of judges.
