ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:18:01]] Registered -434 There are 434 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear national deputies, distinguished guests. In Ukraine there is a delegation of the National Assemblys of the Republic of Hungary led by the head of the State Assembly, Mrs. Catalin Silly. A long and constructive meeting had just ended. [[Applause]] Please welcome our colleagues and wish them fruitful work, pleasant impressions of being on Ukrainian soil. [[Applause]] Honourable National MPs, on May 16, 2003, the Central Election Commission registered with the National Deputy of Ukraine Borzov Valerija Pilipovic, elected on March 31, 2002, in a multi-mandatory national constituency from the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. In order to make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Borzov Valérie Pilipovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, caring for the welfare and well - being of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u3	Let's say hello to Valery Pilipovich. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Borzov Valerija Pilipovic, as part of the parliamentary faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 The Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations on Tuesday we have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals and announcements of requests, statements, messages. Please make statements from factions and MPs. In the meantime, I will announce the parliamentary questions that have come to the Secretariat. Is there no objection? People's deputies, groups of national MPs, have been asked: Pashtowatenko, Hubski, Karnauh and others to the President of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of members of the Association of International Automobiles of Ukraine and its employees. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:21:54]] For 178. Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:22:19]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Why doesn't the system work? Alexia Kozachenka to the President of Ukraine on the gross violation of the head of the National Television Council, the broadcast of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:22:59]] For 252 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:23:23]] For 260 Decision taken. Eugene Jovtak to the President of Ukraine on the outcome of the debate on the initiative of the President of Ukraine to amend the Constitution. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:23:50]] For 168 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:24:12]] For 184 The decision is not taken. Valentina Seminouk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the forms of State acts that recognize the right of citizens to land. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:39]] For 186 Decision taken. Ivan Tomić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the disconnection of the Federal Agrarian College of Ternopils from electricity and gas. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:11]] For-189 Decision taken. The National Deputy Drachewski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on artificial obstacles to the licensing and activities of the NICP Skovorody. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:39]] For 168 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies - Dobkin, Karatumanov, Svetos, Jaroslavsky and others - to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on violations of the rights of officials who are prohibited from interfering with the activities of the Prosecutor's Office in the course of the investigation and the exertion of pressure on officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:17]] For-161 Decision taken. Vladimir Anishuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the re-examination of the right to receive the land by pensioners during the organization of the "True" College of the Mikolai district of Odessa. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:49]] For 172 Decision taken. National Deputy Alla Alexandrovsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the delay in responding to the statement made by citizen Shekhovtsov. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:18]] For-136 Decision taken. Jurija Kruka and Georgia Kruczkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, on the question of the creation of a deep-sea Danube Black Sea. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:51]] For-157. Decision taken. Vladimir Yeshchenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for his unsatisfactory consideration of the letters from the residents of Cherkasa Mahini, the Jach Cherkas District Attorney's Office on the abuse by officials of VAT "Czerkaskie DBK". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:22]] For 105 Decision taken. Julius Timoshenko, Mikhail Pavlovski, to the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the issue of the payment of salaries to WAT employees, Satan’s sugar plant, the Hmelnicke district, and the prevention of the liquidation of the listed enterprise. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:01]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I ask the members of the special commission to deal with the changes to the Constitution of Ukraine to come to the meeting of the commission. Mikoli Karnauha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the complaint of a war invalid against him and his son in violation of legislation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:41]] For-136 Decision taken. Mikoli Katerenczuk to the prime minister of Ukraine regarding the preservation of the monuments of the architecture of the 13th century, the festival of the Presbyterian temple in the village of Palenci, the Vinnitsk district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:11]] For 118 Decision taken. Istwana, Guidosha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on improving and simplifying border and customs control over the Ukrainian-Hungarian state border. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:40]] For-125 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine, the Head of the Cerkas District Public Administration on fictitious bankruptcy, the theft of the Shramkian sugar plant of the Drabov district of Cherkas region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:31:17]] For-141 Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the protection of the rights of the disabled person, Andriy Lanovov, to housing on extended living conditions. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:31:44]] For the 180. Decision taken. Vassil Nadraga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of the Luhansk Regional Anti-Tuberculosis Hospital. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:32:11]] For 204 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the legislative regulation of the order, sources and size of the contributions made to the savings bank after 2 January 1992. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:32:45]] For-179 Decision taken. Group of National Deputies: Cassianenko and others to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the justification of the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to cancel the licenses of the Ukrainian Radio Society. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:33:16]] For-96 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the return of membership to the Znamyan City Committee of State Institutions, which was held on behalf of the Bank of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:33:47]] For 116 "for" 116, decision taken. People's Deputies Groups: Dopkin, Galiev, Goshovsky and others to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations by the Kharkiv District Epidemiology Epidemiological Station of Health and Epidemiological Welfare, Services and Work. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:34:24]] For a-117. Decision taken. People of Kirichenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of Ukrainian legislation by the International Insurance Society ZAT "Salamandra". [[City of Red Light Luhansk Region]] I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:34:53]] For-92 Decision taken. Mikoli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the identification of sources of funding, on behalf of the President of Ukraine, and their legality. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:35:21]] For-138 Decision taken. Eugene Jovtjak and John Boko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for signs of political persecution against the head of the Ukrainian Regional Organization, Leonid Kovalczuk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:35:54]] For 116 Decision taken. Viktor Gorbachev to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine regarding the illegal removal of the land of the military town number 62 of the Mikolai garrison into the property of natural persons under construction. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:36:26]] For-153 Decision taken. Mikli Karnauha to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for complaints of war invalidity by the commission of disability concerning his son’s gravely injured. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:36:56]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Igora Tarasyuka to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the return to Ukraine of the dead body in Portugal of the native of the Ternopil region of Bogdan Zagybail. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:37:23]] For-179 Decision taken. Victor Pinzenik to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the protection of the constitutional rights of the deputy of the Boguslav District Council of the Kyiv Region of Voszbetenskie. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:37:53]] For 131 Decision taken. Vladimir Goszowski, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, on providing information on the Fund for the Protection of the Environment. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:38:20]] For 104 Decision taken. Viktor Gorbachev to the Head of State Tax Administration of Ukraine on the practice of conducting illegal operational checks by officials of the State Tax Administration of the city of Mikolayeva. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:38:51]] For 135 Decision taken. Mikoli Katerinczuka - to the Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine for failure by officials of the tax administration to comply with the requirements of the State Register of Taxpayers Act and other compulsory payments for persons who refuse identification numbers because of religious beliefs. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:39:30.]] For-90 Decision taken. Groups of Ukrainian National Deputies: Dobkin, Galiev and others - to the Chief of Audit and Audit of Ukraine on gross violations by Kharkiv District Sanitary Epidemiological Station of Sanitary and Epidemiological Welfare in Part of Providing and Performing Wages and Jobs. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:40:08]] For 122 Decision taken. Let's move on to speeches from MPs and factions, 45 minutes. If there's no objection, let's take it away, because we haven't had any speeches in a long time. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u4	For what reason? Yuri Carmazin, what is your motive?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u5	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, is what has happened: on Sunday nighttime, a part of the Seaquake territory, which refers to the property of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, was captured by evil. This was captured by a group of armed persons armed with firearms -- guns, batons, who were represented by representatives of the State Security Service of the city of Sapsan from Kiev, and now they're burning locks and now they're in these premises. The Ministry of Internal Affairs didn't take action, the Attorney General didn't respond. So I'd like to ask your support right now to the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Attorney General for investigating, for upholding the power of the law. If the property of the Supreme Council is already so engrossed in this way, then what to say in general - what is the legal order in the state? These criminals must be seized and the law applied to them, all the requirements of the law. Thank you. Please vote this as a request.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I think this is how we're going to do it -- we're going to ask the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs right now, demanding that we provide complete information on the measures that have been taken. Is there no objection? I ask you to prepare an appropriate written address from the Supreme Council. I invite you to speak for the Communist faction Peter Volodymyr, please. Prepare John Bokom.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u7	Petrenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Honourable People's Deputies, on 18 May, extraordinary elections were held in Suma. Andronov’s former Andronov army chief was forced to leave his post earlier this year under pressure from the Governor of St. The main candidates for the Sumsky City Head were from the opposition of Sergei Kločko, former secretary of the Sumski Horsovet, and Vladimir Omelchenko, current secretary of the Horsovet, former Assistant Governor of Sterban. According to many figures, most of the sentiments were bogged down on Sergei Kločko's side, but the existence of serious shortcomings in the existing law on the election of members of the local councils, yes, plus the use of administrative resources by the authorities of the owners makes elections a dirty political zone. As a result, a candidate from power usually wins. This has also been the case in the sums: electoral commissions have been formed by plethora of representatives, government officials have put pressure on real candidates in the mayors of the opposition, as well as on the heads of the district centre services. The use of the authority of the courts in the dirty struggle to achieve its objectives is a matter of concern. Thus, on 15 May, the Zareč District Court of Suma reviewed the application of the Suma City Electoral Commission for the election of a city head to establish the alleged violation of the Ukrainian law on the election of local council deputies by opposition candidate Sergei Kločko. Sergei Kloczko accused him of giving false information to the electoral commission, namely, that he was in his own time relieved of his post as head of the Sumski Horispolkom Division, and then of his position as Secretary of the Sumski Horsovet, not for political reasons, nor for the prodigal majority of the Horsovite deputies, as Kločko showed in his electoral documents, but at his own will and decision of the Suma Council network. An even more biased accusation by Kločko that he had allegedly hidden 50 bracelets in his statement of income from the statutory fund for the social protection of young people. By the way, it's a charity fund. On the basis of such contentious and biased accusations, the Suma City Territorial Commission decides two days before the election to withdraw the candidacy of Sergei Kločko from the candidates for the election of the City Head. Sergey Kloczko's attempt to challenge this objective decision of the commission through the court was not satisfied. As a result, the real candidate for the mayor of Suma was removed for questionable reasons and defeated by a representative of the government, Sterbanj. That's the whole point of democracy. Conclusions: The Supreme Council must urgently adopt a new Law on the Election of Local Council Members on a proportionate basis and eliminate the impact of administrative resources on elections. And the second. Judges, as has been the case for five years, must be elected by direct vote of the citizens so that they do not depend on the authorities and do their will. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u8	The word has for the statement of the leader of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, John Boki. Get ready, Proscarat.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u9	I want to continue the topic that was violated by the Communist faction in the Supreme Council. We have also accepted a statement in this regard and it states, inter alia, that "the elections in Sumas and the entire election campaign took place under the scenario and under the control of the Presidential Administration, under the middle direction of Governor Scherban, who illegally holds office in the executive power and the national deputy." Cynicism and the dirtiest technologies that the Kuchma regime has used in past parliamentary elections have reached sums of apophetism. They were used in the election of the city’s head. The regime has once again shown that it opposes real democracy, political pluralism, and actively opposes the creation of a competitive political environment. When it comes to the full usurpation of the Bank's power, it does not stop at anything to ensure the monopoly of ownership in the country by means of brute force, falsification, disregarding the law and the law. The results of the mayor's election in Suma, as well as the election campaign in the Chernigev constituency no. 206, where the opposition candidate in the national parliament of the Ukraine of Dmitry Ivanov applies the illicit methods of political provocation and gleaning testify that Kuchma and his team are not going to implement the ideas he has proclaimed in the so-called political reform. On the contrary, the regime has established in Ukraine the practice of political and physical terror against opposition. Persecution for dissuasiveness, cynical disregard for the law, is against healthy political competition, bribery and force forcing the voters of suitable candidates. The Presidential Administration acts as the most reactive political force in Ukraine, not as a construction team, Ukraine’s interests for which everything is more than anything. The Socialist faction draws the attention of the Ukrainian people, the international political community, to increasing totalitarian trends in the policy of the official ruling team. To ignore its fundamental democratic values in the practice of holding elections to parliament and local self-government bodies, their falsification, ignoring public opinion and putting opposition into a political ghetto that poses a huge danger not only to the fate of democracy in Ukraine, but also to Europe and the whole world. At the same time, we realize that internally, all opposition, all progressive forces of mobilizing the people to fight for a change of power, are at the forefront of unity. We require the Attorney General's Office to investigate violations of the electoral campaign by insolent use of administrative resources. And, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, lastly, I want to say this in addition to this statement. You see how expensive it is to have a toothless parliament in Ukraine, and you know that Scherban has no right to be a national deputy. Sadly, however, he responds calmly to the fact that the Bank has fraudulently stopped the trial of depriving him of his parliamentary mandate. This is, I think, a huge danger to the Democrats in Ukraine, and it once again shows that Parliament, unfortunately, does not function properly in our country. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u10	I invite you, with a statement from the faction of the social-democratic party of Ukraine, the United and Proscurat Tamara, to prepare Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u11	The faction of the SDPU. In my speech, I would like to highlight a particular concern about the humanitarian rights situation. The Ukrainian community of Transnistria Recently, as part of the 59th anniversary celebrations since the liberation of Tiraspol from the German Fascist occupation, I visited the Transnistrian region bordering the Odessa region. Many meetings with the Ukrainians enabled me to be very confident of the various humanitarian problems of the Ukrainian community associated with the consequences of the Transnistrian conflict. Ukrainians, who make up a third of the population of Transnistria, face obstacles such as, first, passport difficulties in crossing the Ukrainian - Moldovan border. Many of our countrymen have relatives in Ukraine. Today it's becoming a problem for them even to visit their parents, because any crossing through customs every time requires new passport stamps. As a result, a large number of stamps often have to change because of new costs and complex procedures. A difficult situation with education. That's two. School graduates, without any Moldovan citizenship, cannot join the schools of the Republic of Moldova. At the same time, the introduction to Ukraine’s universities is difficult for them. In the secondary schools of the Transnistrian Region, there is a lack of textbooks, textbooks, and methodical literature. Considering the support given to the cultural and social development of Ukrainians by the important task of the Ukrainian State arising from article 12 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and taking into account the specific and complex situation of the population of the Transnistrian Region, which has experienced major difficulties and disruptions as a result of the 1992 military conflict, the Faction of the SDPU refers to the executive authorities of Ukraine with the following suggestions: to direct pedagogical practice to children's gardens and schools of the Transnistria of students from the leading universities of Ukraine; to conduct a regular training seminar for teachers of the Ukrainian language in cities of Tiraspol or in areas of Ukraine, which interfere with the participation of the leading Ukrainian experts in history, geography, the Ukrainian language professors of medicine and literature. Invite Ukrainians of Transnistria to participate in training assemblies, sports competitions from various sports in Ukraine. Consider the possibility of simplifying the procedure for Ukrainians to receive Ukrainian citizenship. The first step in solving these problems is, in our opinion, to set up an interfractional parliamentary group in the Supreme Council to assist the Ukrainians of Transnistria in solving their problems. After the formation of such a group, we are ready to take this issue under control and make a number of suggestions to strengthen ties with the Transnistrian Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u12	Jaroslav Kenzier with a statement from the faction "Our Ukraine," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u13	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! As the presidential election approaches, we are increasingly concerned about the ursping of the most important positions in the state by a political party that was the outsider of last year's parliamentary elections. I'm talking about a party of SDPs. We see what representation in the Cabinet of Ministers. We see that the last appointment of heads of district administrations is followed by the participation of representatives of the Social Democrats. [[United]] This is Carpathia, Chernigs, Chercass. On our order of assignment, the head of the administration of the Cherniewsky region. Above 200 Social Democrats -- members of this party -- are headed by district government administrations. [[United]] And it's such an honor for a party that's barely picked up. managed to win only 6 percent of the votes in the parliamentary elections. The Lviv region is very visible in this regard. In the area of Social Democrats, two percent of the votes are cast, and today we have essentially the leadership of the region by the representatives of this political party. [[United]] The last assignment, you know, talked a lot about the activities of the tax administration of Lvivščina, led by Sergey Medvedchuk. Recently, the director of Western Regional Customs appointed a deputy, former deputy head of the district tax administration, Sergio Medvedchuk Taras Kozak. You can imagine, the honourable colleagues who created the holding company, the unlimited liability society -- the tax administration and the entire western border of our state -- the customs service. What concessions will now be needed for the election campaign and the SDPU(o) and for other needs. So we see that it's not by chance what the representatives of the Communist, Socialist Party said today about this ruthless process of usurpation of power. In our country. And those who understand the danger of this process must somehow resist this process. Because it can't be -- it's absurd, it's all the same when the party that got fewer votes in the region than the party said today dominates the region. We understand why.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u14	Finish up, Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u15	I'm done. It's only because our state has the head of staff of Victor Medvedchuk, who runs all these assignments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u16	Alexander Turchinov will make a statement from the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, to prepare Kalinchuku Vasil.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u17	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! We're already in a situation where we're forced to repeat and beat. Today, Ukraine faces the threat of a real breadcrumb. After the country’s hardest harvest of wheat has been gathered in the last decade, the Ukrainian authorities today can boast only of empty spots, the absence of quality seed, the cardinal expansion of bread in all, without exception, regions, and the terrible forecasts of the 2003 crop. The Ukrainian authorities, led by the President, repeatedly shamelessly and insolently robbed the peasants. The most modest estimate is that 7 billion grand has been stolen from the peasants, and the village is left for granted, without bread, without solitude, without fuel, without hope, without prospects. In all regions, without exception, bread is expensive today. The weight and size of the bread are almost doubled. The shortage of bread in certain areas is catastrophic. The budget pre-planned foresaw astronomical sums to bring from abroad the bread that was given for nothing yesterday. We have never received an answer from the President, the government, the Deputy Prime Minister of the APC, who last year cheerfully handed over butaphoric beams wrapped in blue and blue (?) With tape, Kuchmi and bragging about the unseen crops. We have a question: Where did the Ukrainian bread go, where did 40 million tons of grain go?Oh, my God! Who is responsible for submerging Ukraine into a new plague in the early 21st century?Oh, my God! We don't have carnage today, we don't have taxes, we don't have any skirmishes in collectives. So why are we talking again about the threat of hunger? Why in a Ukrainian village, like 150 years ago, do black people wander? I have every reason to believe that there is an open and purposeful policy of the genocide of the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian nation. And the organization of artificial breadcrumbs is just an organic element. It seems to me that in this way the authorities have decided physically, by means of technologically organized hunger, to rid themselves of millions of prosthetics, whose daily diet is known to be the main bread, or even the only food, and then to take away the land for nothing. Obviously, in such a inhuman way, the President decided to rid himself of his own people, who did not want to see him as his President and called for resignation. Obviously, this is a strategy of effective authority for the destruction of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we are hurt and ashamed to see the President of our nation speak without reason and proudly of the introduction to Europe, of Euro-integration and geopolitical interests when a piece of bread is turned into a small asset in Hmeljničina and Kirovgradina. We hate to hear about the motives for the deployment of Ukrainian battalions to the world's tasks when a nation of farmers is to bring foreign bread from abroad. What political reform may be involved when, for the first time in 50 years, Ukraine was without bread? What bicameral parliament might be interested in the nation when the issue of biological survival was raised in the order of the day? So our faction, the Yulia block of Timoshenko, insists on the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council's day-to-day drafts of decrees on the timely holding of the government's day-to-day "Food Security of the State." We will, dear colleagues, insist that on Thursday we include this issue in the agenda and invite the government for an immediate report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u18	Thank you. The word is given by Vasil Antonovich Kalinchuk for statements from the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Please. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u19	Kalinczuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party, Odščina Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, in Ukraine with the aim of depriving agricultural production of unfavourable natural climate conditions, has built a meliorate system of 5.7 million. hectares. Including 2.5 million. acres of irrigated water. In these fields a quarter of the gross agricultural production was produced, and in many southern areas it was 30 to 40 percent. Meliorated land, especially in dry years, was a state insurance fund that produced 100 percent of rice, 60 percent of vegetables, a third of flax leaf, a large portion of grain, and high - nutrient foods. Unfortunately, the efficiency of the irrigated land has deteriorated considerably in recent years. In this very dry year, only 570 thousand contracts have been concluded by the organizations of the State Department. A hectare of land. What is the reason? First of all, there's no necessary amount of rain and water technology. Out of 33,000. There are only 20,000 units available, half of which are broken. Only 75 rain machines have been ordered for replacement. Inland irrigation systems today need to be reconstructed at an area of 600 thousand hectares. Secondly, with the aim of improving the use of irrigated and dried land in 2002, the government approved a comprehensive programme for the development of land melioration by 2010. There is, there is no funding, there is no return. Because it only takes about $130 million a year to resupply. The government’s intention to reduce by 50 percent the electricity tariffs used to supply water for irrigation could ease the financial burden on agriculture in the current year, but this has not been done. If we can't do what we're going to do, why would we say that? On the basis of the conditions in agriculture, the Ukrainian Agrarian Party faction refers to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as early as this year to take immediate action to use melioritative practices in all forms of ownership. Since 2004, it has been possible to provide full funding for an integrated land-melioration programme, to increase the supply of technical equipment for lysing irrigation and to compensate the state for part of its value, with the provision of adequate funds for this purpose in the national budget of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u20	I invite Oleg Zarubinski to speak from the faction of the Ukrainian People's Democratic Party to prepare Mikola Noshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u21	The faction of the People's Democratic Party. Dear Mr. Head! Dear national MPs, guests, journalists! More than a month ago, on April 10, 2003, an event called a humanitarian disaster occurred in Kamyanec-Podilski. In one of the city’s archives, there was a fire that destroyed about a hundred thousand archives. According to previous reports, several funds were lost in the fire, including documents from the history of Division XVIII, XIX, and the 20th century. I'm sure there's a part of those who wrote the dissertation on their own and their own heads. They understand the meaning of the archives for science as well as the meaning of the destruction of a hundred thousand archives. It's sad that the famous expression "archives don't burn" isn't always true, although apparently there are enough politicians who wouldn't mind some documents from their past from the archives disappearing. But I don't want to blame anyone here because it's another matter. This is an incorrigible loss for the Delilian region of Winnick and Hmiel region, which has left thousands of stories of Ukrainian cities, villages, families, which are part of the nation’s national treasure and the nation’s genetic memory. Documents that could become the way to this treasure no longer exist. They survived hundreds of years of civil war, civil war, and two world wars in order to die foolishly in an independent Ukraine. In Christian tradition, it is possible to pray from the hellfire of their ancestors to the seventh knee. For many Ukrainian citizens, these names could have been transmitted by census materials, court cases, family lists, and other destroyed documents. Tragedy severed the living thread of history, which bound generations from ancient times to modern times. It is this long thread of history that distinguishes, in my view, the peoples with a millennium past with huge layers of culture and rich humanistic traditions from some young superactive, super-energy and multi-cantalal political nations. I fully share the particular concern of my former colleagues -- scientists, professors -- expressed by them in an open letter about the state of preservation of state archives. And this applies not only to archives in the region of Delhi, but to almost all the archives in Ukraine as a result of the beggarly financing of the system of preservation of archiving, heating, watershed, and the collection of the corresponding temperature regime in the shelters, there is a real danger of a repeat of the stone tragedy in other areas. I would like to ask as hard as possible today the question of the mandatory level of funding of state archives in Ukraine, which would guarantee the normal functioning and life - sustaining of archival meetings. Remember that by ignoring the acquisitions of the past, we condemn our future to memorylessness. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u22	I invite you to speak from the faction of the Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Hard Ukraine of Michael Noshchenka. Prepare Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u23	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, present! The Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and Labour Ukraine has consistently advocated the stability of social processes, the improvement of current legislation on labour relations, social protection of the population, and so on. Today, however, the topic of claims is the condemnation of the use of brute physical force in determining statutory relationships of legal persons regardless of the form of farming and any other circumstances. On the morning of April 29, this year, the Chinese witnessed an unprecedented incident, an infuriated mob armed with sticks, metal objects in a literal sense stormed into the streets of Cersus, the 11th city of Kiev. Old capitalists do not remember such a pogrom after the Civil War. According to Hollywood’s best - known television camera, the crowd broke the front door, broke the windows on the first floor, broke the office equipment, and damaged the security forces. It turns out that the crowd stormed the premises that now belong to the Association of Ukraine’s International Automobile Carriers. This organization, as decided by the government, provides for the operation of international motor vehicles in our country. And since 1992, he has been a real member of the international community. Who are these violators of current legislation and who was in charge of this action? It turns out he's a former colleague of ours, former Transport Minister Kostuchenko Leonid Mikhailovich. In this way, the most experienced civil servant protected his chair. A closer look at the material that highlights this event revealed that a permanent struggle has been taking place since 2001. This was the result of the decision of the Kyiv Court of Appeal this year, as well as the Supreme Court of Commerce, which recognized the significant changes in the composition of the founding members of the association and the decision to change the direction. In accordance with these judicial decisions, the Association has begun to implement its statutory obligations in a new way. This was not how the court’s decisions were directed. Noting that judicial decisions had taken place. But the need for their immediate execution of the faction claims that the use of force is unacceptable in all manifestations and circumstances. This will discredit our authority. And in general, after these events, it's inappropriate for them to be evaluated by law enforcement agencies or want to cooperate internationally with us. Today's office is seized, tomorrow's government office, the day after tomorrow's parliament. And today there was also a statement about the harsh use of force. The laws are adopted in Ukraine at European level, but enforcement at the level of African tribes is ensured when the chief is always right. The government of Ukraine, the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine, should say its strong word in the light of the decisions made regarding further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u24	Thank you. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u25	The faction, with the aim of warning such use of force, insists on an immediate and objective examination by the law enforcement authorities of this fact and to give appropriate assessments to all participants in this event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u26	Thank you. Sergey Matvienkov has the floor for a statement from the MEP's group "European Choice". Prepare Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u27	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear colleagues! We've been talking a lot about environmental issues in this room lately. That must be true, since there is indeed a problem that may not be of concern to everyone sitting here and outside this room. But I think we all have understood the outcome of their hearings here, based on the methodology in which these issues were addressed, that the problem is not the environment itself, but the payment mechanisms that exist on this issue. What's going on? Two months ago, we put in this room a bill of 2209, in which we tried to resolve the problem. How to use the funds we pay for environmental funds, how to get this money to work on the ground, how to get this money to work to clean up pollution. What did we get in return? We have considered this bill on first reading. He's on a re-reading committee and he's starting to block himself. And until today, with the Committee's tacit consent, it is located and locked in this committee. In return, we receive the following: On 28 March, with the silent consent of the Committee on Environment, without the full knowledge of the Committee of Industrial Policy, the Cabinet of Ministers issued a decree in which it increased payments for pollution by 2 to 2.5 times. Let me give you an example. Here, let's say we take the road transport to whoever has it. With 4 bracelets to 6 bracelets. Rail transport - from 3 to 4.5 bracelets. Water discharges are 1.5-2 times. Two bracelets of 70 spears were installed for miners in general. We started to understand, they said: the comma wasn't there; we're going to change it for the miners, we're going to review it a little bit. When will this order be made? I don't know how it's going to work. It's not clear how it's going to work. But even that's not the point. That's not the point. It's not the amount of payments. More and more concerned about the following. First. How can you work? On 28 March, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted its decision. Payments shall begin as from 1 April. How should an enterprise build its economy? How to plan the use of funds? It's a crazy move. That's the first one. Second moment. We are well aware and aware that any enterprise that pollutes the environment has a clear mechanism to address this issue. But once again, there is a mechanism, the principle of “The more environmental pollution, the more money remains in the center, the more the center benefits”. Let's finally solve this problem. And we made the first attempt, by Law 2209, to consider it. I don't understand, and I ask, what is the right of the committee to block the consideration of the question of the one that really concerns our entire State? And until when will this bill be on the committee? As long as we increase environmental and enterprise payments again? Well, let's finally figure it out! There's a problem. Let's see where this money goes and how it's used. Therefore, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask that you give me a specific mandate, deal with this bill, and say clearly when it will be in our sitting room for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u28	Honorable Colleagues, in accordance with the Rules of Article 8.3. The word has to do with Mikola Tomenko’s dissatisfaction with the outcome of his parliamentary inquiries. Please very briefly, Mikolo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u29	Dear colleagues. Mikola Tomenko, head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech, Information. I wanted to draw attention to a very serious problem that we already have during the year. I have asked two questions from the Court of Auditors, the State Department of Affairs, other services about the fact that the President's activities are being carried out in Ukraine with incomprehensible funds. I was told that the State Administration was saying that funds were being allocated to some of the President’s functions and activities. I asked about the names of these sponsors, the structure, who does it, the way he wants it, and what he wants for it. You know that a New Year's card on behalf of the President spent 1 million 444 thousand. On March 8 and May 9, I was given no answer at all who placed it and how much it was spent. Now you know another situation, I've figured it out, we've got the President's initiatives now being advertised in general in an illegal way, because no one is making a commitment, and no one admits that he ordered political crying, placed them, and is responsible for it. You know, in 2000, we passed the Law, the Supreme Council, on the financing of public authorities, which clearly stipulates that the activities of the President of Ukraine, as well as, by the way, the Supreme Council, are financed exclusively from the state budget. I'm paying attention to the Public Administration, and I'd like us to address the Court of Auditors in an appropriate manner, perhaps, once again, to ask questions about this and to check, who are these benefactors who have decided to finance the President's activities? Maybe they're funding the business today, and tomorrow they're going to demand that the President do some illegal, unconstitutional action. The President is already largely justified, if you say so, because, you see, there's inadvertent advertising on the boards and there's deception and international co-operation, and the Ukrainian people, when they tell us what you want to live like in Europe, support a bicameral parliament. I'm sorry, it's a lie, to put it mildly. Because in Europe alone in the European Union, six countries with one-single parliaments, almost half of the candidate countries to the European Union, with one-single parliaments. If someone is doing this illegally, the Attorney General must obviously intervene in this matter. So I'm paying attention to all relevant institutions already on the third parliamentary request, and I hope that in this sessionary room we will hear who in our country is illegally financing the President's activities, which, in particular, in political advertising, does not correspond to any law on advertising, sorry, no sanity, no political, so on, a discussion going on in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u30	Now we're going to go over the issues. And then it'll be out of procedure. I'm asking you, Your Honor, that there is no such thing at the time of your application, to have the procedure spoken. Let's get this over with. Just a minute. I'm asking you again. Now, let's move on to the next question, from the hearing procedure, you'll talk. Dear colleagues, statements by factions and MPs have been completed. With regard to the problems that have been solved in your speeches, the Secretariat will prepare appropriate requests, letters that will be sent to those concerned. As for our colleague Volodymyr Szczerbań. This question was discussed at the Conciliation Council, and I addressed the President with an appropriate letter, and I asked him to explain whether there was a statement when it was being considered, this statement, which was made. And now our Legal Office is working in a parliament that has a major impact on the judicial system, the Kyiv Court of Appeal, which has suspended the case today in connection with the concerns of the lawyer of the national deputy Volodymyr Szczerbany. Everything that could be done, believe me, it's done. We don't have any weights other than morals right now. Dear colleagues, I've informed you. What's the information? If there are other suggestions, let's think about what we need to do in the legal regime. Please proceed with the Masenko procedure, National Deputy Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u31	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, what did I take the floor for? Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko just broke up, in my opinion. It's a very important question, but as long as the Court of Auditors does this, as long as it finds the sponsors, so do I for my fellow MPs, and for the radio listeners, citizens of Ukraine, I hereby declare that those greetings, the New Year posters were bought from the local budget by local councils. I've been dealing with this question -- 850 bracelets for one poster and forced 2-3 posters for the area as small as the larger -- it's even bigger. And these are the kind of sponsors that we have in the state. Some may be sponsoring while they make posters, but then they will be able to recover this money from the local budget instead of providing citizens with free medical treatment and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u32	Thank you, that's it! Unplug the microphone. Dear colleagues, a draft regulation on the information of the Head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Law Enforcement of Moisik Volodymira Romanović on the actions that took place on 14 May of this year in the Kyiv Detention Unit is under review. We agreed we'd take it today. We have considered this question, we have heard that today we will make the right decision. Please, Volodymyr Romanovich, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u33	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, literally two minutes of information to the one that I gave you on May 16 of this year on the events of the Czernigov, Žitomir and the city of Kyiv. On Friday of the same day, when the committee head was informed, the Pecher District Court of Kiev partially satisfied the submission of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to take charge of Timoshenko, Bolura, and Chago, and approved the following decision: to continue the detention of Timoshenko and Bolura up to ten days, to allow Shaga to be detained and delivered to court for the purpose of being arrested. Protocol, Soklchenko’s detention decision was not implemented in connection with her illness. She's in the hospital. There's a record of her detention, but she's not actually being delayed. The ruling of the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv Region of 12 May this year, which has been approved for release from the custody of the persons concerned, has been appealed by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to the Supreme Court of Ukraine on 14 May this year, and the case has not yet been considered. In view of these circumstances, Vladimir Mikhailovich is proposed to amend the previous draft decrees that I have prepared, the national deputy Mazurenko, and the other committee. And they're touching. Instead of paragraph 2 of the previous project, where we recommended that the Attorney General of Ukraine take action to enforce the decision on Bolura Timoshenko and Sokolchenko. It is suggested that the general prosecutor of Ukraine be recommended to take full measures to strengthen the prosecutorial supervision of the enforcement of the laws in the execution of judicial decisions. This change is due to the fact that these persons are now in prison on the basis of another judicial decision. And paragraph three of the new draft decree or amendments before the previous one is proposed to entrust the Attorney General of Ukraine with a proper legal assessment of the actions of officials responsible for implementing decisions on Bolura, Timoshenko and Sokolchenko, the use of violence against Ukrainian national deputies, and to provide information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 3 June this year, that is, until the next session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u34	Dear National Deputies! We're not talking about it, with the motives of the Turks, and let's vote now. Dear colleagues, we have already voted to discuss this decision. All of it. We vote as a basis, and then there'll be a complement.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u35	Dear colleagues! I'd like to draw your attention to that, because the reporter was a little bit less focused on the problem. It is not that we have specific names; we have hundreds of thousands of citizens who are without basis in prisons, that is what we are talking about. We don't have court decisions in the country, that's what we're talking about. We in Ukraine may have people’s deputies smothering machines, killing them in carrying out their duties, and that is what this decree says. The other question is that she was so "slightened" that it's hard to understand. But, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I wanted to consult you, and with my colleagues, I see that we have very few people in the room. There's a proposal, maybe we'll vote on it on Thursday, the reporter told us about problems, other options to make enough people to make decisions. This is our offer, starting on Thursday.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u36	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u37	In principle, we have prepared questions for today, and they are prepared enough to vote. Don't yell, it's not my call. Please, however you decide to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u38	Let's vote, now we have to vote today to make a decision now, and then we'll see. I am voting to move away from the Rules and now to take a decision on this decision. [[11:25:10]] To -228. Decision taken. I am voting on the basis of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine number 3498-1. [[11:25:39]] For 219 We didn't make it. I am voting on the basis of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine number 3498-1. [[11:26:09]] For 222 Let me do it again before we talk. Thirdly, for the sake of clarity of the experiment, I'm voting for acceptance on the basis of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine number 3498-1. [[11:26:41]] For 242 Decision taken. Carmazine supplement, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u39	"Our Ukraine," "Solidarity," the Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow MPs! I would like to ask you, paragraph 3, where we write "to assign to the Attorney General of Ukraine," after these words, to add "and to the Head of the Department for the Execution of the Sentences of Ljovčin." Next comes the text "give a proper estimate" etc. And in the end, instead of "give information", "information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary session", add after "by 3 June in plenary session" and put a dot. So these are just a few words to add. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u40	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I do not object at all to the first addition. The head of the department can also be entrusted. At the same time, I see no need. You have entrusted the Legislative Security Committee, let it provide information, and I will always be ready to provide this information objectively and fully.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u41	I'm asking you not to shout, dear colleagues. There's an offer, there's a committee position. I put to the vote the proposal of national deputy Yuri Karmazin and ask the people's deputies to determine how to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u42	Vladimir Mikhailovich can be divided into two parts.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u43	Dear National Deputies! What's wrong with the system? [[11:28:34]] For 211 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the whole project as a decision. In general, I put it to a vote. [[11:28:58]] For 229 It's been decided. Thank you. Let us move on to further issues according to the schedule. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Business in Ukraine on Municipal Enterprises is being announced for discussion. Secretary of Justice of Ukraine Lavrinovich Alexander Please. It's very short, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u44	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Business Act refers to the problem of the operation of utilities. For a long time, these enterprises have been guided by the same standards that apply to state enterprises. But the adoption of laws on local self - government, the creation of a system of municipal property, made it necessary to resolve the problem. And the purpose of the amendment to the current enterprise law is to develop legal relations related to the characteristics of the creation and activities of utilities in Ukraine. First of all, it is proposed to determine the legal regime of such enterprises. The property of utilities is attached to the right of full economic knowledge. So it's suggested in the project. And the property of those utilities that are included in the list of unprivatized municipal property should be secured on the right to operate. That is, the changes that are being made today with the regime that works for state-owned enterprises, but there is a need for a separate definition, because there is a very different system of ownership: the property of the territorial communities and the ownership of the state. This bill does not require any other approach or expense from the State Budget to comply with the applicable rules on local self - government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u45	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! We're following a reduced procedure. We agreed that we have an extremely large number of drafts. I'm asking you to pay attention to that. I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of the national economy, property and investment of Vladimir Josephovich Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy, Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment, having considered at its meeting the draft law on amendments to the Business Act of Ukraine, decided to support the bill and proposed to adopt it as a basis. The bill under consideration is aimed at a clear legislative solution to the specificities of the establishment of utilities. The need for this project is due to the lack of a legal framework, including a separate legislation, which would determine the extent of the rights and responsibilities of utilities in relation to their full-time management or operational management of utilities. It should be noted that at a time when public property was a variety of public property, these powers were determined by the rules applicable to State enterprises. Therefore, when communal property under the Constitution became an independent form, the need for an appropriate legal framework was ripe. The Government's bill defines the characteristics of the creation, elimination, reorganization, administration, operation and use of its property, in particular article 10 of the Ukrainian Act on Enterprises in Ukraine. These changes define the status of utilities by law, reveal the concept of “full management” and “operable management of utilities”. According to the project, while exercising the right to operate utilities, they own, use and dispose of the property at their discretion, and carry out any action against it that is not contrary to the law and the statute of the enterprise. In exercising the right to operate, the utility owns and enjoys the property, has the right to dispose of property that is communal property and belongs to the main funds of the enterprise only with the permission of the local government. In particular, the management of other assets of such enterprises should be determined in its statute. The law is also supplemented by a new section No. 10, which defines the characteristics of the establishment, liquidation, reorganization, management of the utilities and the education and use of its assets. According to a member of the Committee, the adoption of such a bill would solve a number of issues related to the establishment and operation of utilities and to the management of utilities, which is secured by utilities and would lead to the current legal realities of the statute and the activities of utilities. The Committee on Economic Policy therefore invites the Supreme Council to adopt a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Businesses in Ukraine Act on the establishment and operation of utilities as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u47	Thank you. Have a seat, Vladimir Josephovich. Dear colleagues, we need to identify ourselves now for "against" and "against". Nine people were enrolled. Please point it on the board. But it's only going to be four, two, two. Let us follow the procedure and the Rules. Yuri Carmazin. Do you say yes or no, Yuri Anatolyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u48	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am always responsible for what is common sense and what is positive. In this case, I'm going to stand up for the adoption of the law. I would just like to make some adjustments that will be very necessary for the second reading and that we need to understand in general. The law does not regulate matters, yet they are related to the activity of utilities. They are not regulated by any legislation. And this is the gap that the Law on Amendments to the Business Act in Ukraine is about to fill today. I would like to point out that article 10, which has now been discussed, including, and by reporting from the Committee on Change to paragraph 4, the new paragraph is introduced -- paragraph 4, and dictated from the point of view, to manage the property in question. I'd like to stop and say, "People good! Do you not remember how the territorial property was used for your consideration now? They're transferred to the territorial property of the sanatorium in Odessa. Then they are destroyed. Because it's for your own good. So I would like to write here, "in the interests of the territorial community." Then your judgment, but in the interests of the territorial community. Now here's another very important question. We are completely out of this draft law, there are no articles, there are only rural, rural, city councils that create utilities. What about the district work? What, are they coming out? Because according to article 60, paragraph 4, of the Law on Local Self-Government, they also have the right to speak on behalf of territorial communities, villages, villages, cities. And they're listening to us today and they're like, "What, are you denying us the right to create?Oh, my God! Are you going to take us away?" In fact, in this option, I would like the Minister of Justice to clearly predict that in this case, while you're disposing of district councils, you're disposing of district councils. On what basis do we do this? If it's consciously one thing, if it's a mistake, let's correct it. Now the second one. It would be appropriate, and it was the right thing to suggest scientific expertise, to do, to complement that the general issues of community enterprises are defined by the default statute. To supplement the law in this context, article 41, paragraph two, approves the statute of a municipal enterprise that is to meet the standard statute and amendments approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And to clarify the article 41th, which is the local self-government body -- the council or its executive body -- gives the right permission, because the executive body can usurp its authority, use it wrong. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u49	And yet, you're in favour or against?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u50	I'm only with these supplements.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u51	Thank you. A miner, please. Eugene Gorenik. Are you in favour or against? For.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, this is really a matter that needs to be settled, and it's very good that the corresponding project has been put forward for our consideration. I'm confirming once again that I'm in favour of this law. Most of the comments I was going to make are from Mr. Carmazin. Really. Here needs to be complemented by a chapter on the property of district councils and the property of district councils. This is the common property of the territorial communities located in the territory of the respective territorial units, and it is not stipulated here. In addition, warnings about the management of these assets in crisis cases are needed in a second reading, because there are cases where this property has been accepted as municipal property by city councils or other councils and has been bankrupted, and this has resulted in artificial privatization. That is, crisis decisions are likely to be put to the decision of the councils at the appropriate level and in no way passed on to their executions. In conclusion, I want to confirm once again that I'm in the first reading of the second revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u53	Please tell me, who is against the adoption of this law? Please, Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. I've already announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to solve this problem, of course, the problem is not solved with municipal property, its alienation, its use, its management, and it is necessary to fill this gap, and it is good that the Ministry is proposing a bill. But I'm against deciding in this way. There's a lot of things that aren't spelled out in order for this to actually be solved. It gives some room for abuse if we adopt the bill in the form in which it is proposed. We need to be more specific about who is speaking on behalf of the territorial community. I've already been asked this question, and I want to focus on it -- the council or the executive body? If we give the executive body the inevitable abuse, if we give it to the council, they're also possible, abuse, but they'll be much less. So you have to ask and write it more clearly. This is a question of the use of territorial property. What is the mechanism for using this property, which is the mechanism for controlling its use? It's not, it's a defect of all our laws -- control over execution and sanctions that fall if they're in violation. So, in my opinion, I'm going to re-read, take these proposals into account, and then take another look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u55	Yeah, Taras Blackwall, you don't mind, do you?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u56	So, respectable colleagues, all because it's necessary for the issue to be settled in a legislative way, because utilities can't continue to act in principle and in accordance with the statutory rules laid down for state enterprises. And obviously we're going to have to vote in the first reading for this law. I'm definitely against a whole series of formulations and just the level of the law. For me, the law is weak enough. It's supposed to be some kind of amorphic idea -- a utility. It's not predicted who actually owns, actually, the ownership function, the territorial community. And responsibility, both to the territorial community and to the electoral body and to the territorial communities before the local councils. And there's a serious problem with taking into account the rights and positions of the business community itself. It's not legal. Nor is there a sufficient point when utilities are created on the basis of seriously damaged and practically bankrupt enterprises, even today, or under the pre-laws. Part of the utilities now exist solely in the grant area as a result of their becoming a permanent bankruptcy during the period of state ownership of those enterprises. These things can be written normally in a second reading, but if this isn't foreseen, if there's no question that there has to be a second reading, and that's why now I'm only going to take as a basis in the first reading, then I'm definitely going to be against it. But the law itself is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u57	The bill has been completed. Ladies and gentlemen, two pros, two cons. The decision will be made in the light of the discussion. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property Rights on the allocation of expenditure between the State and the local budget is being announced for consideration. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economics and European Integration Prinst Vladimir Leonidovich. Communicator Vladimir Josephovich Matthew also asked a question. Very briefly, please, with a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u58	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear Hennaday Andriyovich! Dear National Deputies! You are presented with a draft law amending the Ukrainian law on the transfer of property, state and municipal property. The purpose of drafting the bill is to introduce the provisions of the Ukrainian law on the transfer of property and property rights in accordance with the Ukrainian Budget Code, as defined in articles 69, 87, 91 of the Code. This establishment, when transferred from state to municipal property, is the shared responsibility of local authorities and enterprises from which social infrastructure is transferred, excluding businesses that are designated by bankruptcy. The proposed amendments to the bill envision an increase in the share of fuel companies in financing the transfer of socio-sphere objects that need to be capitalized up to 50 percent, and I would like to highlight, instead of 30 percent of their participation in financing the maintenance and capital repair of all objects. If an entity is kept in good condition, their total expenditure during the financial year to which the transfer takes place may be lower than that provided for in the current new law. That is, less than 30 percent of the amount for maintenance during the appropriate period. The question of determining the amount of expenditure is determined by the relevant commission, which is provided for by an active article of the Act on the Transfer of State and Municipal Property Objects. I would like to point out that the transfer of objects of the social sphere is carried out not only by the consent of the authorities authorized to manage state property but also of the local authorities. At present, local authorities disagree with the acceptance of unrepaired and war-related social infrastructure because they do not have adequate funds to carry out capital repairs. Enhance the interest of the territorial communities in adopting these objects and ensure that they are speeded up by the transfer of them to municipal property is possible only if financial support is provided by enterprises on whose balance sheet these objects are located. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u59	Thank you, too, Volodymyr Leonidovich. Have a seat, please. I invite you to speak to the deputy chairman of the committee, Vladimir Josephovich Matthews.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u60	Respectable Ukrainian People's Deputies! Today, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has submitted for your consideration another third consecutive draft Act of Ukraine amending the Law on the Transfer of Public and Municipal Property. The bill proposes that, in accordance with the provisions of the Budget Code, equal conditions be established for local budgets at different levels and for businesses established in the privatization or corporate process, the financing of the cost of major repairs of social infrastructure facilities when transferred to communal property. Of course, the proposed bill is not ideal. Thus, it did not address the issue of sources of funding for the maintenance of social infrastructure facilities transferred to utilities during the current year and the corresponding local budgets, only from the budget period following the year of the transfer of facilities. From 30 to 50 per cent of the costs of caprenovating the transferred facilities for enterprises established in the privatization process of corporateization were raised. However, there is no problem for those enterprises that simply do not have the financial capacity. We also have a number of financial issues and comments. Nevertheless, the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment proposes that the Act be adopted on first reading and is ready to be redrafted for second reading, taking into account the comments already available, as well as the proposals made by the people's deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u61	Thank you, Vladimir Josephovich. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the discussion. Proponents and opponents of this bill. Please point out who signed up for the talk. Yuri Carmazin. Get ready for Puzakov. Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u62	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I certainly agree with most of the conclusions made by my esteemed colleague Matthew, after all, that there may be an exception, a substantial exception. First. So how do we get out of the question that was now said to be that year, that budgetary period in which social infrastructure objects were transferred to municipal property by whom would it be financed? If the transfer is made, the transferor no longer finances. And the transferee will be financed from the following year. What's that? Is this a little question for you and me? And for humans, it will be a matter of life and death in general. But you're not going to be able to put a guard on this thing. It's just an unprepared project. Only by this criterion. Now the second question that leads, artificially, to the bankruptcy of enterprises that have such enterprises in social infrastructure. What do I mean? I mean, the project is reforming the order of expenditure to be financed by enterprises created in the privatization process or by corporations to carry out capital repairs of social infrastructure objects transferred to municipal property. [[in the paws "reformed"]] If these costs are now 30 percent of the cost of maintaining social infrastructure in the past year, the project is designed to cost 50 percent of the cost, that is, plus 20 percent, of the cost. There are many of you business leaders in the past. necessary to carry out a capital repair of these objects. So if this sum can go beyond the possibilities of an enterprise and that's going to go bankrupt. Of course, it'll be a matter of privatization early and so on. I am firmly opposed to such an approach that leads to artificial bankruptcy and artificial privatization. If it's to think that we're improving our lives for businesses, that we're increasing our percentage of them, then forgive me, we probably have a different understanding of what good is done for businesses. I'd like to take this project back to work, because it's not sufficiently written, and it's impossible to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u63	Thank you. Carmazine's against it. Vladimir Puzakov, please, your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u64	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Despite the fact that the process of transferring social infrastructure objects to municipal property has not been completed, the state budget does not provide for local budgets for the stated objectives. Reference is made to article 91 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, which can provide for this expenditure when local budgets are formed, provided that appropriate local programs are adopted. However, owing to the limited resources of local budgets, for example in the city of Kirovgrad, for a number of years the financing of expenditure for the capital repair of the housing fund of the local self-government authorities was carried out in volumes that did not provide for the need for capital repairs of roofs, elevators, interior buildings. In this regard, the maintenance of social infrastructure facilities transferred to municipal property has placed an additional burden on local budgets. In addition, incomes that are not included in the definition of inter-budget transfers, mainly land payments and local taxes and congregations, are allocated to the financing of social object maintenance expenditure. The arrival of land payments as a result of a steady increase in tax debt and the granting by the State of additional benefits remain at the level of past years, and increasing revenues from local taxes and assemblies is not possible due to the setting of maximum rates for these taxes and assemblies, i.e., local budgets lack tax reserves for increasing income, parts that can be directed to the maintenance of social infrastructure. On the basis of the above, I propose to include such a paragraph in the law and to put it in the following wording: "Recast in Ukraine's national budget projects for the year in question transport and local budgets for capital repair and maintenance of social infrastructure objects transferred to municipal property." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u65	Thank you, too. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine For, for, for, for, for, for,
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u66	Actually, I'm in and out. Dear National Deputies! In this room, I've heard many speeches, and I've heard people's MPs complaining that the bills passed by the government, or by the President, are far more imperfect than the MPs do. And here, when I read this bill, I still think that this bill does not respond to 50 percent of the needs that are absolutely necessary today in the legislative field. I mean the social sphere, especially in the country. This is in this bill on the level of conditions for local budgets, as this will align local budgets and so on. I didn't see anything like it in the bill. If it goes and goes, according to the President's decree, the transfer of the social sphere of former SPCs has passed, or co-operatives, into the rural councils, then funding today is only at the level of the need for pay. Not even the village councils have the ability to assign a worker, or it's the village council employee, or it's about a local school, a delegation that the state is delegating to some training or a higher qualification course -- it hasn't been paid to teachers or workers of the village council for years. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council has made it clear that, among other things, article 4.2, paragraph 2, of the draft states that, starting with the budget period following the year-on-year transfer of social infrastructure objects to municipal property, the cost of maintaining these objects is reimbursed from the relevant local budgets according to legislation. You and I have adopted this year's budget, and we're going to accept it for the following year, but it's said that the visa and today's will be there because it's practically necessary today to maintain these, so we're going to have to allocate at least a billion, one and a half billion dollars from the State budget. We are unable to do so and have failed this year and for the following year. So I say yes, the faction will determine the Socialist Party of Ukraine on Thursday how to vote. I would have voted in favour, but strongly against such a bill in the form it was submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u67	So it's against me. Instead of the School, the national deputy Kirilchuk is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u68	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, Kirilczuk, the Party of the Fatherland. Indeed, there is a problem in Ukraine — one of the problems with large - scale problems — because thousands of homes of culture, clubs, educational buildings, other social objects are now virtually either broken down or broken down or taken in by coins. Today, the government has not revealed in its law that offers this problem properly, nor has it even listed what social objects the law refers to. But those who have gone deep can learn that the formula is virtually so that it is a matter of drowning in the hands of the drowning ones themselves. That is, the government separates itself from this problem and passes it on to local budgets, which are today poor as church mice. And finding money to repair, maintain this object is not possible. I’m not even talking about rural objects that already stand without windows today, without doors, if there’s a guard there, it’s the head of a club at a quarter of a bet that only visits sometimes. Because of this, such a law cannot be enacted. That's one reason. Second, such a law should be discussed in depth on the Committee on Budgets, and there is no conclusion of the Committee on Budgets in this regard. It is written that the law goes into effect from the day it is signed, and the costs? Let them seek these heads of village councils? The heads of the district councils, they're not there. Such a law, if developed, is necessary, but it can only enter into force with a new budget. Next, why did I say it was moving? You see, for today's 30 percent maintenance, the local budgets will now be looking for 50 percent. Capital repairs, now at the expense of state - budget transfers, are being transferred to the capital repair and reconstruction of such objects, now it will also be from local budgets. Such a law cannot be enacted, for it is the only thing that allows the admirers to find a broad field of activity, and for a penny they can take away objects that will no longer have a house of culture or a house of enlightenment. Today, there will not even be a place where people can be gathered. As a result, this project needs to be redesigned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u69	Please, Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u70	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, such a law must be passed, but not so. I'm stretching between pros and cons. The problem needs to be solved, but the bill is not sufficiently solved. And it's not about me, it's about the fact that the social sphere depended on the state budget and the local budgets. The state budget no longer finances it. And the local budget hasn't funded it yet. That's the nerve of the problem. If we transfer the social sphere to local budgets, we need to resolve the issue of financing it. The issue of financing the social sphere in the bill has not been resolved or insufficiently resolved. I softened the wording. How can it be resolved? Or provide additional income to local budgets to finance the social sector. Or transfer from the State Budget. So I'm joining those who proposed sending the bill back to read again. It needs to be taken up, once again, the question needs to be resolved, it's very relevant and much and why it's a big question. And indeed, the fate and life of millions of people depend on it, and that is why we owe it to us to decide. But we have to commit the subjects of the legislative initiative to bring them to such a level of readiness that we don't have to suffer by pressing the pros button. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, the consideration of the draft law amending the Ukrainian law on the transfer of property and public property rights objects on the allocation of expenditure between the state and local budgets has been completed. Decisions will be made in the proper order. Dear colleagues, we need to ask if we're going to take a break or if we can consider a draft decree approving the position of a National MP's assistant consultant. We've talked a lot, we've been putting aside this necessary document. Is there no objection? Thank you. Valentin Grigorovich, please. We advised you, but you voluntarily supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u72	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In the project you've been offered, it's first of all about the legal status of assistant advisors to the Ukrainian People's Deputies. According to the program "According to the Parliament of Ukraine", in the legislation of the countries of the European Union, the term "assistant Parliamentarian" means a person who provides personal assistance to members in carrying out their duties. Unlike the one provided by the services and officials of the parliament. By giving special importance to the organization of assistant consultants, our committee has since the first days of its work started to study the issues of improving legal instruments that regulate the work of assistant consultants to the national MPs. As you recall, following the initiative of the members of the regulatory committees, the Supreme Council amended article 34 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, which increased the number of assistant consultants to the National Deputies, from 15 to 31. The same law settled the question of assigning the rank of public servant to those consulting assistants who are attached to the staff and financial services of local government executives. And there was a solution to the issue of the attachment to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of assistant consultants who work in Kiev under a fixed-term contract of employment on a permanent basis, but are not government officials. The next step was to organize a new position. To this end, the committee has asked the leaders of all the MP factions and groups, the structural units of the apparatus, the interested in these ministries and the authorities to make their proposals for a new position, and most of them, to be noted today, have responded actively. On November 23rd last year, a broad discussion of the activities of assistant consultants at the Round Table was held by the Committee, together with a programme to promote the Ukrainian Parliament, which also brought together all representatives of the parliamentary factions and groups, many national deputies, a large number of directly consulting assistants. representatives of ministries, departments, offices, the Court of Auditors and structural units of the Supreme Council. As a result of this work, proposals were made, which were also generalized by the committee. So your point is that there's a document that's very different from the actual position, and it's a piece of law. It includes a number of new legal norms, as well as the preservation of the work that has been proved by the practical work of the national deputies and their assistants in the last four calls of the Supreme Council. First of all, I want to draw your attention to the very form of the updated position. As you've already noticed, it's presented for your consideration in a more simplified, clearer, more logical way of constructing its structure, first of all, which consists of articles, parts and so forth. The content of the new regulation is entirely consistent with the current legislation, particularly the law on the status of the national MP and other laws. In article 1 of the proposed draft position, the legal status of the assistant consultant is fully defined and article 2 specifically regulates his rights. In particular, part 2 of the project provides that the assistant consultant, while staying in the premises of the Supreme Council, should follow the established order. Part 4 of the right to be present at meetings of committees or temporary special or temporary commissions of inquiry under the written commission of a national deputy and the agreement of the head of a committee or a temporary special commission. Article 3 introduces new legal norms under which a consulting assistant should comply with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, Ukrainian legislation and so on. Much attention has been paid to the detailed examination of the procedures and the discharge of assistant consultants and the simplification of the procedure is allowed for the direct national deputies. The citizens of Ukraine, who for the first time are serving as an assistant consultant in the public service, take the oath of a civil servant. This project also foresees the possibility of a continuation, which is important, of a time served by state advisory assistants who have reached 60 years for men and 55 years for women. According to the National Deputy, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus and its agreement with the head of the Government Service of Ukraine, the matter is being resolved. The main thing in this project is to increase the social protection of this category of workers. I'm done, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to highlight those points that are of a separate nature and are contained only in this provision. In particular, if the assistant consultant is released from office, he is considered invalid and is obliged to return him to the Supreme Council. In our view, this will remove some problems in this regard. After the distribution of the text of the new editorial position about the assistant consultant, we received a few comments from the committee and I want to record them for the transcript and make a few little details about the text that the national MPs have. That's: in the second part of the article, the first instead of the word "higher education" is to write "educational education." The Chief Administration of the State proposes in the article that six parts of the fourth be supplemented by the words "except for those in the public service". This is about restrictions on coexistence under the Ukrainian State Service Act for Assistant Consultants who are already in State Service. There are also conceptual proposals for the administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus, which need to be implemented through the improvement of Ukraine's laws and we will work together on this. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please. I wasn't watching. I think that the bill that Rudzkowski passed, Mikola Rudzkowski, he agreed with us at the committee meeting that after we discussed it at our committee meeting, we made a lot of comments to him. He'll take it off. True, he did not. But there is an appropriate decision and committee on the Rules, and the Scientific and Expert Office on this alternative to our project, which is being submitted by the People's Members of the Rules Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u73	Thank you very much. There's no Ribkowski in the hall right now, I can't see him. That's why he won't report this bill. Please tell me, is there even a need for us to discuss this issue? It's all clear. So detailed was Valentin Grigorovich’s explanation of the position of this law. Let's move on to the next question. No, we agreed to keep working. Let us give the word of Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich and then stop discussing the matter. Let's move on to the next one. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, how can such a question not be discussed? I sincerely thank the head of the committee for the report on this issue. But I think that just to solve the questions about the people who are drafting the bill that are working on it is also part of this Supreme Council apparatus, we can't limit it. Moreover, despite the fact that article 34, paragraph 3, of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy Act establishes that four assistant consultants are subject to the Act on State Service, they are assigned to the highest—seventh rank of civil servant. They are attached for human and financial services to the Apparatus, the position of assistant consultant is not yet foreseen by the classification of professions. DC 00395 was approved by Decree No. 230 of 15.04.2002 of the State Committee on Standardization, Metrology and Certification, the successor of which to the State Committee on Technical Control and Consumer Policy. It is also not available in the Manual of Typical Professional Characteristics of the Offices of State Officials, approved by the Order of the General Service of the State. Moreover, I believe that the positions that are in this situation, which have now been reported, are the parts that narrow down the rights and duties of the assistant given by the status law. And we can't do that. I'll tell you right now. I know that this committee is very thorough in preparing for all the questions, so I'm also going to try to say this. Paragraph 4. The current position states that assistant consultants, who are part of the State Secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are now writing - and financial services to the executives of the relevant local self-government body, and in the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol to the secretaries of city councils. It narrows it down once. The second constraint is the limitation of the right given by paragraph 4 of article 34 on the status of a national MP. Assistant consultants working in Kiev under a contract of employment, but not government officials, can also be attached to it. You have to count all the assistant consultants in the state as being in the patron service. Next. We write, according to the chairman of the committee, to be present, paragraph four, to be present at meetings of committees or temporary special committees. Today, they are entitled to the written commission of a national MP. And now it's being proposed -- and by consent of the committee's chairman to a temporary commission. Why is that agreement? He's giving a mandate to a deputy-- it's a law for an assistant consultant. There must be no other. Next. We narrow down his right to pass to the central authorities of the executive branch, not to say that to all the executive authorities. And since the Cabinet of Ministers, the government is a higher authority in the executive system, so we're narrowing down the rights again, and we can't even get a document to send an assistant consultant to a deputy to run like a mailman, that's the question today. Next. In many other positions. The total cost should not exceed 30 percent of the total annual wage fund; it should be written down. Next, I propose, we have removed the right to receive health care on a monthly salary basis. If this is a civil servant, we have to anticipate such things. I'm done, just a second. Next, we have to write that the material and socio-economic provision of assistant consultants who are on the public service is set to take account of the requirements of chapter seven of the Ukrainian State Service Act and put it at that point. Further, the size of the general wage fund of the assistants is established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And within the foundation, a national MP is on his own. I mean, I'd like to make these adjustments, this is a very serious question, it's about very many people, 450 times four, that's at least, I mean those who are on a permanent basis, yes, that's under 2,000, and social rules. So I have my additions to hope and suggestions to the regulatory committee, and I ask them to take into account the final acceptance of this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u75	The question is closed, and the vote will take place in accordance with the Rules. Let's move on to the next, 2411 -- draft law amending the Act on Hostages in Ukraine. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Economics and Integration, Vladimir Leonidovich, reports. Please. We made a deal all the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u76	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs! Your attention is on the proposal for a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Act on Hostages. The bill is prepared by the government with the method of improving the procedure for the acquisition of state property and the proper state of the stock, the percentages of the rations of the cooperatives of the Act "Probation" of Ukraine does not address the issue of the transfer of the right state of shares, the portions of the rations, which significantly reduces the State's ability to obtain loans for the development of strategically important enterprises, and also leads to abuses in this area. The draft law proposes that article 11 be supplemented and that it be legislated to determine that the transfer of shares of particles, pies, to the respective state. The statutory funds of agricultural societies are carried out with the permission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or of the State Authority, in which they are delegated in an orderly manner to manage these shares, parts, and pies. Article 20 of the Act "Probation" contains a requirement to apply to the property of a state-owned enterprise or enterprise not less than 50 per cent of shares, particles, pies, which are owned by the state solely by a court or a commercial court, which provides for the equality of conditions between state and non-state enterprises. And since it is not for state enterprises, the property can also be made by means of an executive notary. Such a rule makes lending to state-owned enterprises less attractive and significantly reduces the ability to obtain loans to enterprises that are strategically important to the economy and security of the state. And what a vast majority of state-owned stocks belong to these companies. With a view to creating a level playing field for state-owned enterprises and not state-owned enterprises, it is proposed that article 20 of the law be amended to remove the restriction on the application of mortgage State property, solely by decision of the court. The State's control over the movement of state property that transfers this pledge is carried out by means of the mechanism of acceptance of the transfer of property into a bond, with the Cabinet of Ministers or with the authority empowered by it, as provided for in article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Hostages. Article 21 of the Act "Probation" stipulates that an auction, a public tender announced that it did not take place, shall have the right to leave the property held behind, on the basis of the consent of the claimant. In cases where the contracting authority has not given such consent, the property shall be effected in an orderly manner if the other does not have a contract. The existence of such a rule of law prolongs the procedure for the implementation of the encumbered property, since commercial banks cannot sell and keep the property for a long time. I mean, because he doesn't have the consent of the landlord. Amendments to article 21 provide for the imposition of a standard for the removal of the need to obtain the hostage, the consent of the creditor to take possession of the property. If the auction isn't happening, and we think it will help to boost banks' activity in lending to the state and the economy. The adoption of Ukraine's law, the amendment of Ukraine's "Probation" will improve the procedure for the repayment of credit in the event of default by the debtor of its obligations, will enhance the ability of the state to adjust the repayment of loans, which will help the banks to become more active in lending to the military sector of the economy. Please support the proposed bill. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u77	Thank you. Have a seat. The word is given to the head of the subcommittee, the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of the national economy, ownership and investment of King Oleg Anatoliovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u78	Deputies! In order to make it more profitable to explain the changes in this bill, I will try to show by procedure how it was before this bill and how the bill provides for collateral transactions. First, in this bill, for the first time, the State had the right, before that procedure, to place State actions on bail. Thus, if the bank, if the State is not accounted for for the credit received, the shares will be held by the bank or another company that has received the bet. We have to understand that. Second. The procedure, as previously done, for State and non-State companies. It has been stipulated to us that, for public companies whose share in the State is more than 50 per cent, only the court decides if the contract is overdue, the contract is not implemented, only the court has the right to rule. In this case, the bill provides for the equalization of the public company and the private enterprise and not only the court, but also the notary has the right to issue the executive inscription. We know that notary is 2 per cent, and the court's decision is 5 per cent. That is to say, it is an opportunity to reduce such procedures. And third, tops. If the enterprise has not been calculated and we already have a court decision or a notary decision, the auction must be held. That's what happened before. And if the auction did not take place for that reason, it is permissible that there would be no desire to purchase the collateral, then the law prescribed the procedure if the undertaking agreed that the property was going directly to the bank. But quite often the enterprise was not in agreement, and at that time the procedure was deadlocked, and the bank had to exhibit its third structure to participate in the bidding that purchased the property for the bank, and there was a rather confusing situation. And the bill provides for a solution to this confusing situation and allows, if the auction does not take place, property to go directly to the bank. And I think it's positive. The Committee supports the bill. But given the comments made to the scientific experts, we believe that it should be supported on first reading. We'll finish it in the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u79	Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Ukraine’s national deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Are you in favour or against?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u80	Yuri Carmazin, "Solidarity," Our Ukraine, Party of Fatherland Defenders.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u81	Yuri Anatolyevich, are you in favour or against?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u82	I'll tell you in time. I am against the reallocation of the property proposed by this bill. And now I'm going to base this on thesis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u83	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u84	The law proposes to simplify, in other words I cannot say, the transfer to the hostage, i.e. the creditor of the property right to the property in question in the event that the debtor defaults. It is anticipated that the creditor’s agreement to leave the property in question should be revoked if the auction or public tender has been declared not to have taken place. Imagine that the mortgage takes property 3-5 times at a cheaper price. Then, for some reason -- did they not tell the company manager, or something else happened -- the property is actually going through with the actual machine on the project that's being proposed. Because not only is it proposed to do a notary record, as the Kings said on behalf of the committee, but something more is proposed here -- it's actually proposed to make a statement on the basis of the bail agreement itself. I mean, putting in a mortgage agreement is notoriously damaging and creating conditions for the non-privatization of state property and the abuse around it by the heads of state enterprises and government officials and creditors. What Is Accomplished? What was assigned to the head of the state enterprise was 250, 300, or 500 dollars. And he made a deal and they said to him, "Let this property go to our property, and the land, it's going to be like this, it's going to be like this. As was the case with Odessa, for example, the iPod was offered to do. So I think, even if I adopt, to make changes to the Mortgage Act, it should be written that recourse to mortgage property of a state-owned enterprise, an enterprise, at least 50 percent of the shares of which are state-owned, and belong to a state-owned stock, stakes, pies in the property of households, is made on the basis of a court decision or on the basis of the executive inscription of a state notary. At the same time, we cannot and cannot, and, thank God, we will not introduce this law into force as long as the Law on Forced Realisation of Property, in which at least 25 percent of the property of the State, is in force. I'm actually paying attention to the fact that the projects currently being developed by the Ministry of Economics, which exclude the recourse to the assets of a state-owned enterprise, are being excluded and thus allowing us now to settle anything. I can see it's already the Ministry of Economics line. Line on what? Instead of using property effectively, are you now working for commercial banks? So they take their own, at the rate of refinance, they give at least 20 percent. So what else do you care about them, Your Honor? Who do you work for? Not only is Horoshkovsky and his entire Department of Economics working for this country. I'm against this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u85	Andrew School, please. Are you in favour or against?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u86	I'm against it. Andrew School, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Ukrainian National Assembly First of all, of course, I would like to emphasize that this should be done. It's like a committee of reporters on a simplified system to make things simpler and easier. You see, the point is that the painting of the previous presentation is absolutely real. So this bill is going to create the basis for the assets that are being set up, as is the case with the highest standards for disposal and implementation. I mean, what does that mean, "without the consent of the person who made the bet"? I mean, a man's mortgaged his property. Later, it was not calculated, nor was the scheme in which she wanted to make it, and the property remained with her. And without his consent, this property can be realized. Why? Why? Why do we here deny the rights of the founder, for what reasons? We're being explained that for the reasons that it's said to be too long and the banks, what, the assets are getting old, are being destroyed? What's wrong with him? What, someone pawns cream or milk? I think that the first thing I'm going to do is pay off the liquids, plus that there's a Nazbank decree that property is somehow, if it's worth a hundred grand, it's going to be taken in under fifty thousand. That's already the norm. And here, under 50,000, they took the property that was worth 100,000, and it was valued, right? So later, without the consent of the benefactor, this property can be realized there for 5,000, for example. Since it's been a long time and this law allows this kind of creep. And we have no right to do that. So I would like to emphasize that, dear fellow MPs, I understand that we're working instead of a break, but nevertheless, I'd like you to focus. This bill, it doesn't even have the right to consider the situation. Because we don't have the ability to control the processes that are currently taking place in Ukraine's economy. So we're giving you another opportunity to go around the existing more or less established relationships to get into the realisation of the set assets per penny. Let's imagine. A small entrepreneur gave up his only estate he had -- an apartment, an apartment he lived in. The apartment costs $30,000. We got an estimate of $15,000. He didn't make a few more copies, he couldn't make a project, he couldn't make any money. And without his consent his apartment was sold once and for all?Oh, my God! Everything, you know?Oh, my God! The master took it away, and on that, good-bye. I don't think that's going to reduce the credit rate in any way, it's not going to increase the ability to mortgage and lend to businesses by banks. This has no effect at all. I think it will only increase the possibility of abuse in this area. So I strongly urge you to send this bill and invite the government to make more qualitative proposals in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u87	Thank you. The word is given to Black Vladimir Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, I think that before speaking to the MPs, Carmazin and School, they were overly strict. I tend to support this bill. What I can tell you is that the wolf doesn't walk into the woods. What is the problem? There's a problem with getting credit. The economic situation is that we don't have enough money. We need to borrow, finance, invest in production. And this is the main issue of economic policy at the moment, the issue of investment climate, the question of cost-sharing, finance, investment, our internal and external. So, you get the credit you need. It's an up-to-date question. You can't get a loan without a mortgage. Credit has to be guaranteed, so we have to make a pledge. At the same time, what you deny, without the right to make a bet, the bet becomes formal, and in fact no bank will lend if there is no such condition if it is. Wait! You deny the idea.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u89	Please. Don't get in the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u90	So, without the right to make a bet, no credit will be given. But there's a real problem that Karmazin and School have been paying attention to, and you've drawn attention to the real problem, but it doesn't cross out the idea itself. The auctioner who wins the auction is the one who finances the auction. We need conditions. The terms, for example, the investment conditions are certain in this, you need control of this, it's absolutely right. But let's write it more perfectly in the second reading. If we don't take a step in that direction, we can't solve the problem of lending our economy. So I wouldn't want you to go over the bill because you're specific mechanisms for solving loan problems, mortgage problems, mortgage implementation problems, I would say, wager valuations, I agree with you, there's a danger that you can sell mortgage property for free, and we know that, and that's what's happening, and, really, we have a law on forced privatization of property that would play a role, and we have to cancel it if we want the process of lending the economy to happen. But to provide control mechanisms in this law. So I think we can accept it in the first reading, but it's important to rework it in the process of preparing for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u91	Thank you. We're done here, let's move on to the next one. Draft law on the introduction into Ukraine of cane sugar in 2003. Ukrainian National Deputy Odanik Mikolaajovich will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u92	Mikola Odanik, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Winnitzkin. Ladies and gentlemen, the people of Ukraine! Good day to you all! Today, two bills are under consideration for the introduction of sugar-sparing sugar into Ukraine. I'm the singer of one of them. You know, when you passed this bill, you didn't think he'd make that much noise and noise around him. It was not even thought that so many people's interests at different levels would be affected by the bill. But the facts are and we see them, they are today. You, if you noticed, I said there were two bills under consideration today, and this highlighted why? Because I'm convinced that if no drafts are adopted today on Thursday, we'll be considering the third, fourth, and so on until we accept them. This means that there is a problem of sugar-sparing in Ukraine. And it needs to be decided. It is not the way it is decided today. I have the facts that more than 150,000 tons of sugar have been imported into Ukraine since the new year. At that time, you know which way. On this issue, we have prepared arrangements for the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, because this cannot be overlooked and cannot be overlooked. But let's go back to the bill itself proposed by this bill? First. This bill proposes to introduce 400,000 tons of sugar-sparing sugar. The other one. Set import duty quota at least 7 euros per tonne. Third. Finish processing by 1st September of this year. Four. Setting up the sugar supply control mechanism and the order of control, is proposed to be placed on the Cabinet of Ministers. And the fifth, which is very important. The funds received are under the control of the Minagropolitics to direct as an investment to the sugar beet manufacturer. The adoption of this bill will allow for the introduction of sugar in a civilized way and prevent the deficit of sugar in Ukraine. At the same time, the state will receive about 300 million grand. The channelling of these funds to the sugar beet manufacturer will allow the branch to be supported and halted. The distribution through a tender under the control of the Cabinet of Ministers will avoid abuse. Finally, I would like to say that this year there was less than 200 thousand hectares of beetroot with all the prescriptions. This means that we will have the same very difficult problem for the next year. To stop the fall of this important, I repeat, the industries like sugar, the necessary funds and let's make them, they are. You know, we're the drafters of a bill that used to be the director of agriculture. We have learned from experience that growing sugar beet is a good thing, but the earth will not be deceived. If you put it in the ground, you can take it. And if we lie about what we are sowing and then lie about what we are moving and then not collecting, what kind of rebirth of the sugar industry can we talk about? So let's, let's say, stop the discussion that basically comes down to who's going to distribute, who's going to rewrite, who's going to have something of this, let's all be. Let's support our industry by investing in sugar in a civilized way to Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u93	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Svatków Leonid Borisovich, as a reporter. Prepare, please, in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u94	Mr. Chairman, national deputies, members of the government! The bill provides for imports of sugar. in Ukraine, an amount of 280,000, an import duty rate of 6 euros and a term of 1 September. I would like to take a moment to consider the need for adoption of this law. Agricultural sugar production in 2002 amounted to 1 million 430,000 tons at an internal demand of 1 million tons in Ukraine. And the available resources for self-produced sugar can lead to a loss of sugar in the summer period, both in retail trade and in the summer supply of food companies such as confectionery, dairy, and non-alcoholic. If we adopt this law, the implementation of this law does not require any additional material and other expenses, and the additional revenue from the budget for the payment of import duties, the value added tax and the revenue deduction for the implementation of this law will be about $15 million. In 2001, 260,000 tons of sugar were imported, 100 million dollars were paid to the budget, 2.3 million were paid to the Pension Fund, 11 factories were employed, and 5.5 thousand people worked in the sugar processing plant. In addition, transport facilities, and ports worked. I want to say that the need to adopt this law is based on another such issue. Our company, the Dnipropetrov factory, Dniprovina, has been installed on Cuba for tractors that we once put there, tires. Debt has been 2 years, and debt is equivalent to 15,000 tons of sugar-sparing. There's an order for "Dniedust" and this year it's equivalent to 30,000 tons of sugar-sparing sugar. We don't have to lose our external market for this company, because today the Yaroslav factory, knowing that we don't have the sugar issue in Ukraine, in Russia, has settled this issue, has offered its services to Cuba in order to execute the orders for the supply of tyres, and the sugar-cheese to bring it to Ukraine. So by adopting this law and by giving a quota for "Dniešća" we're giving jobs to about 7,000 people working in this company and not losing the external market for our business. I propose to pass the law in such an order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u95	Have a seat, please. The secretary of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Yukhnovsky Oleg Ivanovich, will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear Hennaday Andriyovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations at its meeting reviewed the draft law on the introduction into Ukraine of cane sugar in 2003, introduced by the People's MP Sokirk and Odainik, and draft law 2616-2, introduced by the People's Chamber of Svetkov. [[Registration number 2616]] The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusions, proposes to adopt a bill based on the first reading, which will have a positive conclusion of the Customs Tariff Council at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which, unfortunately, has not been submitted to any project. At the same time, interested ministries and other executive authorities do not support the proposed laws on sugar-sparing tax imports, as this will increase social tensions in the stormy areas of the deming processes in the sugar market and the significant losses of the state budget. According to the National Sugar Association of Ukraine, the available sugar resources, taking into account transitional residues and imports, will be sufficient even if consumed as much as possible for the new processing season. I'll give you the data contained in a letter from the Ministry of Finance signed by Undersecretary of State Markowski. The production of sugar in 2002 is 1.4 million tons, the transitional surplus of 350 thousand tons, the arrival of white sugar from Belarus and the Republic of Moldova - 59 000 tonnes, the surplus of sugar produced from sugarcane - 60,000 tons, smuggling - 100,000 tons, that is, resources in the country amount to about 2 million tons and are sufficient to provide the internal needs of the State before the start of the new season for the processing of sugar beet. The information contained in the letter from the Ministry of Economics has imported 216,000 tons of sugar to Ukraine in the current year, of which 207 000 tons of sugar is raw sugar; January-March sugar exports amounted to 160,000 tons, including sugar syrups, which is plus 47,000 to the figures I gave. In view of the state’s stated and intended to protect its national economic interests, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine considers the adoption of the bills to be inappropriate. It should also be noted that, according to article 11, part 11, three of the Ukrainian Law on State Control of Sugar Production, the production of sugar in Ukraine from imported raw materials is only allowed under the conditions of further exportation of finished products in full volume beyond its limits. Thus, the implementation in the internal market of sugar produced from raw materials imported under the bill would be contrary to the requirements of current legislation. Moreover, the implementation of the project’s provisions may lead to a breach of the agreements reached by Ukraine during the WTO process of negotiation. It also draws attention to the absence of any fundamental financial and economic calculation of the impact of the adoption of the bill. As well as reporting or calculating the existence of a deficit in the internal market in Ukraine. The committee supported the proposals made by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the difficult situation in the beet-sugar sector, draft legislation for the implementation of sugar-sparing sugar into Ukraine on extended terms to be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u97	Have a seat, please. I don't think we need to listen to the committee's proposals, they're supported by the government, they're supported by the committee. Let's move on to the discussion. Please, Mikhailo Yavorowski. None. Pavlovsky Mikhailo Antonovich. Next Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, members of the government! I want to draw attention to the fact that I've already witnessed that six years, nine years I've been in the Supreme Council, and every year I've done the same thing: we're going to fail, we're going to take sugar-cheese on the roof, and it's going to be better. The result of these years. Sugar production declined from 5 million to 1.4 million. Hundreds of thousands of jobs lost! A sugar plant that operates on beetroot is surrounded by 30,000 jobs. Therefore, the reverend, the reverend, is woe to our peasants. And I'm very sorry that a national MP from Winnkina is speaking, the main producer of sugar beets, and he starts talking about some sort of advantage. There are no advantages! So this is the only time that the Cabinet of Ministers is doing the right thing, you can't let that happen. On the other hand, we need to stop the smuggling of sugar. It's not a kilogram, it's hundreds of thousands of tons that are being imported. So, Your Honor, this bill, these ideas are evidence that there is no strategy in the state. We need to keep the seeds alive. to sow in sufficient quantity, collect, recycle and protect their market. Try to bring sugar to the United States. First, pay $500 a ton. And so, notice, today it's 300 euros, and we're offered to cut it to six -- 50 times! I mean, to create benefits to strangle your production, and under these conditions, never one who makes candy will be able to invest in our barrels -- he's got this kind of pay-per-view condition for him! So, ladies and gentlemen, if we're thinking about peasants, if we're thinking about jobs, we're going to be discussing the Youth Act now, and she needs jobs, so we can't support these bills in any way. We have come to realize that there are lobbyists in the Supreme Council, MPs who stand for someone else’s interests. And we need to defend the interests of the people. As a result, these bills must be thanked to those who have proposed, but these bills cannot be adopted. Instead, I'm going to talk to representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, and I want you to introduce us to a program for the development and restoration of the sugar industry, for the support of the factories, and more than that, find a way to reverse those conditions of the WTO that we signed, where we introduced a quota of 260, and then more, thousands of tons of sugar. That's when the state and the villagers thank you. Today, this law must be rejected. And I ask, Hennady Andriyovich, to give the Cabinet of Ministers the task of developing an appropriate strategy for the resurgence of the sugar industry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u99	Thank you. The word is given to Melniczuk Mikhail Vasilovich. Please tell Mikhail Vasilovich, are you in favour or against?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u100	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear colleagues, distinguished Gennady Andriyovich, I am respectfully referring to the national MPs who passed the two bills. I think these two national MPs know what they're doing. But whether the people of Ukraine listen to me and listen to reports about what we experienced in Ukraine: there is no grain, but we exported it, no sugar. We're already talking about what we need to take from abroad. They destroyed their own grain maker, destroyed our sugar farmers, because today the dedicated sugar-processing companies in the hands of the bandits who robbed the past and in the past year the peasants still go under the sugar factories, thinking they should take the job they had, and they can't find who owns today's sugar-processing plants. And this is done in a country that has declared to the world that we are implementing agrarian reforms for our Ukrainians. That is not the case, I have long understood the people of Ukraine. Krautsukor has made clear the timetables for the handling of sugar syrup in Ukraine and the consequences of the imports. I'm not going to comment, I'm just going to ask the President, the prime ministers, is that what we're talking about in our country is smuggling 200,000 tons of sugar raw materials? So where do I go to the drafters and maybe they're really right? Excuse me, but why is it in the state that they import everything not by law, but by smuggling, why does the state allow it? Where is the Customs Committee, where is our Security Service, if this year the authors of the bill confirm, and not just those who are re-driving with the confectionery? The motivation is: in what state do we generally live, do we want to live in such a state, or do we need to change the political system in this power tomorrow, in order for this power to work and enable it to work for its own people? Perhaps that should be the case today. I have a statement from the Attorney General's Office regarding Kozachenko. Well, you know, you can do it differently, but again, let's do it this way: Cossack. A hundred and and a half billion were fooled by a peasant. Not Cosachenko, but even today's government, because the Prime Minister's elements, or the Deputy Prime Minister, or the Minister's a screwdriver in this government. And these screws are the kind of people who are supposed to answer and kneel in front of the peasant today. I won't personally support these bills, but I don't support the smuggling of sugar-cheese. If that is the case, let them drive to let the people of Ukraine know that this is necessary for our industry, not smuggling it into Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u101	The two deputies came out against this law. Grigory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik, are you in or out? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u102	Group "European Choice", National Deputy Kaletnik. Dear Hennadi Andriyovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished many-suffering workers in the bura-sugar sector. A few digits. In the following year, we will celebrate 180 years of our nation's sugar industry, whether we celebrate the Jubilee, or whether the oblivion depends on how much the country's adopted laws will be implemented for the benefit or the loss of Ukraine's agricultural complex. Including the strategic sector, which is the beet-sugar complex. In recent years we've really lost, I've been confirming previous interventions, dozens of sugar factories, seed farms, 21 sugar factories are virtually dismantled today. Workplaces decreased by 300,000, sown areas by half, and domestic sugar production decreased by almost 3 million tons. And one of the main factors in the collapse of a strategically important sector is actually importing sugar-sparing sugar on tax terms. The most significant damage to the government budget and nearly $300 million to a highly funded foreign producer, we have done on the basis of the benefits imposed by the individual laws. I'm not going to give all the arguments about this problem, because last month I'm from the same rostrum and from the APC committee's rostrum, and I'm going to focus in detail on this problem, so I'm going to allow myself a few accents. First. The main problem is not to import or not import sugar cheese, the answer is a food balance, it needs to be imported in particular this year. There's a problem at the bet. The tax rate is an attractive "sauce" that allows interested entities to take out super revenue that should go to the state budget. Therefore, in the proposed bill, I propose to make the following changes to article 1. The import volume of 220 thousand tons, the import rate of 60 euros per tonne or ten times the proposed bill. Import date from June 1, 2003 to October 1, 2003. This will provide an additional budget of nearly 80 million dollars, which will be written down immediately to pay off the State’s debt to the country’s companies for money invested in the construction of the social sphere in the country or other problems, but necessarily for the village’s problems. The other one. This would enable Ukraine to fulfil its commitments under an agreement during the WTO process of negotiation. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u103	Thank you. The word is given to Black Vladimir Kirilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! We're making a very important decision right now, I'd say "signal decision." The Supreme Council should clearly testify to its position. On the one hand, you can't stop importing sugar cheese, and on the other hand, you can't import it. That's actually the situation we're in right now. In view of the fact that Ukraine's beet-sugar complex is in a difficult state, that it's practically broken, I'm fully appraised by the MP Melniczuk, why this happened, and who did this, we're probably forced to import a certain amount of sugar-sparing this year so that there's no break in the provision of sugar. But at that point, we have to break our shirts on our chests, put ashes on our heads, and tell our people that we understand perfectly that this is completely insane. Ukraine has every opportunity to provide itself with raw materials for sugar production. And just because agriculture and politics in this area have been extremely ineffective in recent years and in many ways criminal and have led to the collapse of the industry, to the collapse of the beet-sugar complex, we have to do it. But not only should we admit our guilt, we must promise and assure our voters, our people, the people of Ukraine that we will never do so again. If we do not declare it, then no law can be adopted at all. We have to say that we're going to do everything we can to get the beet-sugar complex out of our knees to put the money there to invest not in importing the cheese from abroad, but in getting our sugar plants to work, in order for the agricultural sector to work on the production of the beetroot, in order to replace the technology in sugar plants, in order to actually be modern technology, in order to be all the conditions for ensuring that sugar be stored and used as efficiently as possible. If we do this and we promise to do this, then we will have an excuse to have temporarily proven to make the last import of sugar-sparing this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u105	Question completed. The vote will take place on Thursday. Let's move on to the next one. Draft law amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Treatment of Taxpayers’ Obligations to the Budget and State Purpose Funds for the Write-off of Tax Debts, which was incurred by taxpayers in connection with the nonpayment of wages. Reporting by Ukrainian national deputy Kruglov Mikola Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u106	Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! I want to bring to your well-known draft law, which is now being brought to your attention. What is the point of this law? In 2001, members of the previous call passed a law on debt write-offs to the budget and to state trust funds. This law has helped many businesses to make use of this and to write off existing debts to budgetary and trust funds. Sadly, though, some businesses were unable to exercise the right granted by this law. And I couldn't use it for just one reason. There were companies that paid wages in the form of material resources, whether food or, for example, goods for the purpose of such an assignment. This seemed to be in accounting. On the one hand there were either commercial loans or loans, and on the other hand there was, we say, debt on wages. As a result, these two debts existed in accounting, but due to the fact that the salary was not paid, there were no taxes. Including the income tax on citizens. And when the issue of write-offs arose, there was this situation: the actual salary was not paid, the material resources were paid instead, but the taxes were not counted, because the accounting did not pay the salary. We should have done, as we say, repayment of a loan or a commodity loan, counting the salary, zero accounting, and showing that there's a debt on the income tax. It took 60 days. And sadly, our instructions for clarifying our legislation did not take this into account. Many of our companies haven't been able to use it, they haven't done this accounting operation, and they're still holding up what we say is the situation. Other businesses have gone this way, they've done accounting wires in 60 days, but our instructions haven't been able to write off this debt. And in this connection, the tax inspection counted fines, foams, and so forth, and so forth, as we say, a situation that has not been settled until now. At the committee meeting, the project was multifaceted, and for about a year and a half he walked along the corridors of the Supreme Council. The committee has supported and I ask the fellow MPs to support this bill all the more so that no budget losses are to be talked about today, because the unaccounted salary of unpaid taxes has not been included anywhere in the drafts of any budget since 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u107	Thank you, Mikola Petrovich. Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the Committee on Finance and Banking Sergey Anatolyevich Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u108	Thank you. Good afternoon, national deputies. I will briefly inform the committee's position by saving time on other important issues. This is a technology-accounting issue, which unfortunately was not defined in Law No. 2181, on the order of payment, which is not subject to taxes, non-tax payments. So, really, there was a conflict where it's supposed to be taxed, and it's not listed, because there's no payout. The committee asks for support for this small change, which goes in the spirit and logic of the established law. Thank you for your attention. The committee supported this by a unanimous decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u109	Thank you, please sit down, Sergey Anatolyevich. We need two in favor, two in favor. Please explain those who have signed up for the talk. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin There's no Carmagine? Then take off Carmazine. Vladimir Cherniak, please. Out of the way, please. Come on, your honors, now, do you mind? And the argument. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, I believe this bill can and should be accepted. In fact, it's a technology-accounting issue, just a few moments were not taken into account when the law was passed. The legislator always tries to improve the bill. And that's just a step in the right direction. I think we have all the necessary and sufficient reasons to support the bill. I'm in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u111	Alexander Baranowski. Is it? None. Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u112	Thank you. I also want to support this bill because it is. As you know, it proposes to establish a write-off mechanism and a schedule for payment of a tax debt related to the repayment of a non - monetary debt. It is well known that article 18 of the Ukrainian Law, the applicable law on the order of payment of taxpayers' obligations, provided for a limited time limit for the declaration of tax liabilities, resulting in not all business entities being able to deduct from the accounts the tax liabilities themselves. At present, as a result of special measures to pay off creditors’ debt, mutual interests, loans, commercial loans, the latter have decreased significantly by that time. as significant tax liabilities remained unfulfilled. And the drafter of the bill, I think, rightly points out that paying off taxes can lead to the bankruptcy of some industrial enterprises that worked steadily in 2001 in 2002 and make it difficult to pay the current wages. But there is one point. It seems to me that the solution to this problem is extremely complex and confusing. Instead of Complementing an Article On the 18th additional part of three, it is quite possible for me to make changes to the part of the first article in paragraph 18.1.5. And in this paragraph, it is necessary to set more than the applicable time limits for the declaration of tax liabilities. In general, the law that will help to reduce the tax burden and stabilize the financial situation of industrial enterprises that count on hopeless tax debt should be supported in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u113	Yes, thank you, dear colleagues. Who is against those who sign up? Basil Nadrag against it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to make a point of the next order. We are with you often when we need to address wage increases, pension increases, social benefits, and we are constantly talking to you about the lack of resources. Unfortunately, there is a practice where in our State, with some frequency, once a year. twice is the write-off of debt obligations of an economic operator. The fact is that the budget lacks money - one question. But today, when we discuss that we do not have enough pensions, they are ashamed to call them even pensions, and on the background of that, we propose that you take away the Pension Fund one more time, and hence the financial base, which in some way affects the increase of pensions, specific sources of income. Therefore, with regard to social contributions to the Employment Fund, to unemployment, to the pension fund, I think that if we go this way, we will again lose the money that we will then count on and say that today we need to increase these social benefits and, in particular, pensions, and hence, so on, to influence the lives of a particular person living in that State. When we talk about people who are incapable of self-sustaining, I mean pensioners, persons with disabilities and everyone else, let us also be honest in this part, including when we are talking about helping our businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u115	Yes, please, Carmazin's against it. Please give an argument, Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u116	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. I have a lot of respect for the people's deputy Kruglov, and I understand that he had good wishes, but I'd like to say now some things that might open his eyes to this problem a little bit differently. If the law is enacted in such a way that it is introduced, the loss of the pension fund will amount to about 30 million dollars. Who will compensate them? Given that the pension fund budget was approved without a surplus in 2003, the losses recorded could not be compensated for by other sources of funding. After the adoption of the law on the order of payment of taxpayers’ obligations to budgets and government trust funds, entities of entrepreneurial activity were written off as part of the payment of $7 billion to the Pension Fund of Ukraine, even with excess money. In doing so, even after the downturn in the last two years, businesses have consistently grown under-remuneration payments under the Pension Fund. That is, the cancellation of the debts of business entities did not result in the financial recovery of enterprises or the improvement of payment discipline. So we need to look for a way out in a completely different plane. The practice of paying off taxes and other compulsory payments violates general principles because it creates unequal conditions for entrepreneurship for those who pay taxes at the proper time and for those waiting for another write-off. We're kind of saying," People! Don't pay! Then we'll introduce a bill and write you debts.".. You can't do that, and you can't cool people down in this case. I, thank you, have finished the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u117	Thank you, Yuri Anatoliyovich, for your consideration of the question, Peter Cibenko's replica, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u118	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Deputy Cibenko, Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues! I would very much like to ask you to be very careful about similar kinds of bills that apply to cheating. We used to have practice when we were talking about restructuring and cheating. I think it's only possible to cheat that it's not exactly coming back. Let's try to get some of this money back. This is the first time. And second. It seems to me that our decision is going to be something that's not right, because we're actually trying to write something that doesn't belong to us. We put our hand in the pocket of local budgets, we launch our hand into the trust funds. In particular, I would like to point out that over the last four years, because of the write-down and restructuring of the Pension Fund's budget, four billion dollars has gone missing, sorry, it's two monthly funds. I'd very much like my colleagues to think, on Thursday, we're voting on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues! It is legal to consider amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Act "On the order of payment of taxpayers' obligations to budgets and public trust funds in respect of the write-off of a tax debt incurred by taxpayers due to non-payment of wages. Decisions will be made in the proper order. A draft law on amendments and additions to the Ukrainian law on State social assistance for disabled children and disabled children is being announced for consideration. Reporting by Ukrainian national deputy Feldman Alexander Borisovich. Is there Alexander Borisovich? Yes. Please, Alexander Borisovich briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u120	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Allow me to present to you a draft law amending and supplementing the Ukrainian law and State social assistance to disabled children and children with disabilities. The idea of drafting this bill did not come about by accident, despite the efforts made by the State to create adequate conditions for social protection and material security for persons with disabilities, but remained a problem that was not addressed by law. In real life, situations and circumstances often arise where persons with disabilities are unable to receive timely social assistance. Part 1 of article 12 of the Act provides for a limitation on the period during which persons with disabilities may receive the money they have not spent in time for 12 months. In my view, this restriction can only be imposed if the disabled has not received assistance in a timely manner without due regard. Treatment or other reasons that physically render it impossible to obtain social assistance in a timely manner may be a valid reason. During our consultation with the Chief Executive, we came to the view that the words in the given project “may” should be replaced by “e”. Such a formulation would specify the rule of law and rid it of ambiguous interpretations. Second. I propose that Part 2 of the same article be supplemented by the following rule. If a person with disabilities has not received social assistance for a good reason, if it is the fault of public authorities, it is similar to securing the right of the disabled person to receive such assistance without limitation of time. Life situations can be so diverse that this is not subject to 100 per cent regulation and notice in the law of all possible situations. The project therefore provides for the possibility of “accusation in court of non-payment or a distinction in the payment of state social assistance”. In these cases, the judicial authority must decide what is considered to be respectable and what is not. Such practices exist in our legislation and are widely applied in developed countries. Agree that it is not humane to limit the period of repayment of the amounts actually owned by persons with disabilities if they are not received for a good reason. That is why I propose to supplement article 12 third. It will grant a disabled person or his representative the right to appeal to the courts for the refusal of public authorities to pay the disabled. In view of the physical capacity of these people, the legal system itself should be as simplified as possible in order to obtain social assistance. As a way out of this situation, I would suggest that individual accounts be opened for persons with disabilities and that all the funds they have provided under the law be sent to these accounts. But this is a matter for future legislative action. At this stage, it would be useful to adopt the changes and additions in question. The implementation of the project I proposed would not require additional budgetary costs. It is within the limits of the funds already provided for in existing legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u121	Thank you. Please have a seat, Alexandre Borisovich. I invite you to the report of the Secretary of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Valery Suškević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u122	National Deputy Suškević, Secretary of the Committee on Veterans, Disabled Persons, Pensioners, Industrial and Business factions, "Trouble Ukraine". Dear colleagues! I consider the bill extremely important and important and grateful to the National MP Feldman, who has made an addition to the law of which I am the author. In order not to repeat the bill's report, I would like to highlight the main positions. First. The bill expands the conditions under which a person receiving social assistance is disabled from childhood and. has the right to pay in the past tense without any limitation. The other one. The bill introduces a concept, an important concept, a valid reason not to get it, and details it: stay on treatment, other reasons that physically prevented the timely demand of the recipient of the assigned social assistance payments. The introduction of the concept of "an important reason not to receive" is relevant because it sets out specific cases in which a disability cannot be denied in violation of the time-limits for receiving assistance. And the third. In addition, the bill also provides the recipients of the above - mentioned aid for charges in court of failure to pay or refuse payment. It's also very important. I also want to say that you know that I was in my own time, even in Soviet times, the subject of not receiving adequate help as a disabled child. I turned to the social services, and I was refused, they said. I don't think there's any reason. And only five years later, I learned that I had just been misled. In fact, I barely received state aid in 12 months, with a practically irresponsible social institution addressing this issue. Thus, the rights of persons with disabilities to obtain what the State has foreseen in its legislation are the very option of drafting this law. I also want to say that this law, let's just say, is multifaceted. It hasn't actually been done in three years. Only this year, in a limited, marginally limited by the relevant law on the State Budget of Ukraine, is it limited to a subsistence minimum as the basic calculation measure of this law to 90 bracelets, and it is certainly an addition made by the bill of the People's Deputies of Feldman that allows the disabled person to receive and secure his or her right to receive that State aid, which, at least today, is well within the range of proportions. Let's face it. So I support, the committee will support and I ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u123	Yes, have a seat, please. What questions? It's a short-term procedure. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Please write down who is to discuss the matter. Puzakov, please. Let's just say "yes" and "against." In the end, let's conclude. The second Carmazin will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u124	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The adoption of the Act on Social Protection of Children with Disabilities and Disabled Persons from Childhood gave hope that the State, in 10 years of independence, eventually returned face to face with these children, that these children would have protection. But unfortunately, that didn't happen. Children with disabilities are children with disabilities in our Kirovograd region without benefits: free treatment, free travel to a sanatorium, no intercity transportation, no telephone, not to mention utilities. A disabled child lives with him as long as his relatives live with him, who receive 5 bracelets of 65 copies. Just think of it - 5 bracelets 65 copies! We should be ashamed of our government at today's prices to pay $5.65 apiece. Or the disabled person may be provided with an extended passage in urban transport. Tell me, sir, how can a wheelchair invalid get on a trolleybus or a bus? Someone's been thinking about something here, too. The wheelchairs seem like kids, but they can't use them, because these wheelchairs are heavy, they're uncomfortable. And here the designer of these wheels would also have to think about who they're assigned to. If a disabled person is given a vehicle, he is not using it today because his pension is not enough to fill his car at least once a month. This should also be provided for in this legislation. Today, one of the means of communication for a disabled person is the telephone, but many do not have it today because there is not enough pension for a subscription. Whether or not to make changes to a law that provides for the free use of telephone communications. One of the important problems with children with disabilities and with disabilities since childhood is the numbering of pensions according to their internships. What kind of internship can a disabled person have? A disability should be likened to a minimum of living, and this should also be provided for by this law. Now is the time to think about building a special home for the disabled. Unless a disabled person can be on the street every day, living in a multi-story building. He is destined to be without fresh air forever. Today, the disabled are left alone with their own woes. The authorities don't have time to worry about their problems. And the problems today are hundreds. But neither the district nor the local authorities for the social protection of the disabled, even when the national MP is asking for help in solving a particular problem, do they want to be carried out, not by people, but rather, rather rather than helping people with disabilities, to make their lives easier. Here's the state's concern for children with disabilities whose fate has already eaten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u125	So it's a yes. We already have one. Yuri Carmazin, if you please, for or against.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u126	Vladimir Mikhailovich, you know I'm "for" decent things. There are good points in this bill. And I say yes. But I would like to explain, and, with your permission, the question of when, how do I apply, what I have to note to this bill, so that the author can then count on the second reading. Because I believe that in the first reading he will be adopted, this bill, despite the fact that you, honourable national deputies, have a letter signed by the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine of Tobacco, who does not support this draft law on amendments and additions. We have a government in general that has a point of view. If anything relates to the rights and legitimate interests of a person and a citizen. You have heard here the opinion of our colleague Suškević, who in his own time was suffering from such an aberration of power. So it was very right for National Deputy Feldman to make these proposals. I would just like to point out right now that the more effective way to protect this category of citizens, which concerns children with disabilities, children with disabilities, would be to give them the right to receive assistance, not from the time of the application, but from the time that the right to such assistance has been established, i.e. since the conclusion of the body of medical and social expertise. Until now, he had no right to do so. From this point on, when an organ is concluded, it has the right to do so. From different points, it's about these people who aren't protected, and he can apply later -- a month or so later, two months later, but this time -- a time to start him -- to start paying his salary. Now, as far as right or wrong is concerned, we ask the question when this help was not needed without a time limit. Of course, the legitimate reasons found in the law must be expanded, extended as much as possible, these important reasons not to give the official an unwarranted reason. Everything must be designed to protect the interests of the citizen. I mean, what's more, he's already been so offended by life and so insulted. We're still in debt to these people because we can't provide them with minimum wage, and the Constitution requires - not below the minimum wage, but we can't do that. Therefore, it is necessary to provide and, quite correctly, without time limit, not to write, but to add good reasons and to foresee them when he could not, knew not, and when his caregivers or parents could not turn to him for protection of his interests. So I would ask you to adopt this law in the first reading, and then this addition to it would be included in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u127	Thank you. Which of the national deputies who have been registered against this law? Against? Please, a national MP. Right behind Melniczuk, yeah. We just need someone against it. Two pros have already come forward.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u128	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region I'd like to see the author of the amendments to the Supreme Council Rules, which he predicted in the Rules of Procedure "for" or "against". I'd like to see a 450-year-old MP come forward against a bill that supports socially disabled people from childhood or disabled people in general. And so, Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, your honor, I will violate the Rules, the opinion of that MP, and I would like to know his family, at least, which set the standard. It's not about the bill itself, it's about the bill, but it's about the bill that colleague Feldman passed, and he needs support, but there's another bill that he's supporting. And in general, I would like article 12 of this law, not only does this article need to be worked out by us parliamentarians. The point is that if a disabled person is not paid the debt that he did not receive for his own reasons, he should go to court. And do you imagine today, our colleague Suškevitch, that he, with his physical capabilities, will go to trial? And you imagine that as we look at the judges and assign them that some of them can't do justice, will they come in two or three months? And he needs a penny today. This is not a court case, but such an official should be brought to criminal liability already, prosecuted for failing or delaying the issue of this social assistance. This is about something else, and what are we going to turn the election race into? When a candidate comes to the presidents and gives the disabled cars, do you understand? Today, people with disabilities can't get a car like that, and he's handing them wheelchairs before the election, such a candidate for the Presidents, or some deputy from the power of the people to pass. It shouldn't be in the rule of law, if we want to be at least a state of law and the world to recognize us, then the disabled should have guarantees that no one should hand him a car or a wheelchair because he would vote or not vote. Such "guys" for a state execution should not be in our state. I will support, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine generally supports all social projects, if they really do make it possible to improve the lives of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! If we support this, let us support the decision by voting and abide by the Rules. Because there's still so many social laws here, let's also adopt them, and we're not going to agitate each other. We're all dressed up. Dear colleagues! Let us work to carry out the schedule of meetings, not simply to demonstrate our love. Please, speak to Ivan Alexanderovich, you don't have to teach me how to live. Please let us follow the Rules, or change the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u130	I've already made a decision, and she's not coming forward.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u131	All right, let's take a look.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u132	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! With regard to the Rules, I have made a draft decision and for some reason it is not being introduced in this room. So let's go to the agreed commission and make my draft decision and we'll review the very important and social aspects of the bill. Now for this bill. We will certainly accept this bill, but it does little to solve the problems of our disabled children and children with disabilities. And here Melniczuk was telling the story. It's about maybe individual exceptions, but we know that this problem is mass, that it's not a problem of one or two people. We know that the amount of government social assistance given to children with disabilities today is marginal, up to 135 dollars. That's 90 bucks plus 50 more percent, that's 45 bucks to take care of it. Tell yourself, mother or aunt, or just the person who's taking care of it, if she can keep herself for 135 bucks today, not work for retirement and support this disabled person. We have a law that Mr. Tsushka has previously passed and we have adopted it, and it's about state aid, social assistance for disabled people from childhood and children with disabilities written that this aid should be attached to the subsistence minimum. Today, contrary to the Constitutional Court's rulings in the State Budget Act, we have limited the subsistence minimum to $90. Therefore, honourable deputies, if we are to form a state budget for the following year, we should say clearly not so many of these children. They're surrounded by nature today, they're deprived of a lot of what today? That's 153 grand. All of these kids, let's make the exact amount we need for these kids for next year. It's at the minimum of living. And whoever doesn't vote for these things, then we'll know who's in charge of solving this problem today and who's against it. The same is true of the status of persons who care for children with disabilities. We've already talked a little bit, now it's like internship, this job's coming. As if for five years earlier they may retire, but once again, no funds, no money, no minimum support for this person and these children. Therefore, honourable national MPs, we must reject this method of such grappling our problems. We take a bill, we give a little bit of an adjustment to say that I'm a social rights advocate, and we don't want to solve problems in fact. I encourage you to solve problems essentially. Therefore, there is a need to add that amount of social assistance to this bill at the minimum of living and to increase the status of persons with disabilities. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u133	Thank you, distinguished national MPs. Question completed. Attention, National MP, Mother. I just want to say, honourable colleagues, regarding the inclusion in the agenda of the bill. We agreed on the Conciliation Council, and last Thursday, I put to the vote a proposal to vote with a package all the bills that need to be included in the agenda. Now, please, if anyone has voted for this matter, that's all. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u134	I have a request for all deputies. As you speak, do not make an antiadvertisement of domestic produce. What they said today about wheelchairs that are being released today in the domestic industry can satisfy any kind of survey, is the Kyiv Artema factory and whatever amount. If there are any design suggestions, please, for this factory. All you have to do is count the cost of these wheels. Seven thousand this year is bought, you can make 25,000 loved ones that you need just to make money. And please support the domestic manufacturer, not, on the contrary, criticize him.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u135	Dear colleagues! The draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Disabled Persons from Childhood and Children with Disabilities has been reviewed. We will make a decision taking into account the discussion that has taken place now. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans is being announced for consideration, guaranteeing their social protection with regard to payment of cash assistance. Communicator of the People's Deputy, Mikola Noshchenko. Prepare Anastasia's Valentina Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u136	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen! Articles 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees of their social protection are provided every year by May 5 for the payment of one-time financial assistance to war veterans, to those who are extending the validity of this law, and to persons who have special merit before the Father. However, the practice of implementing the law has revealed issues that need a legislative settlement: how, where, in what terms, to pay for it. And now all these questions are settled by the Cabinet of Ministers, which also worked this year, when we paid once for the disabled and the participants in the war. With a view to strengthening the coordination of the activities of local authorities, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Emergency Affairs, the State Department of Execution, the Department of State Security, the State Tax Administration, the State Committee on the Protection of the State Border, where they are accounted for, I stress why I am named in these ministries because the beneficiaries of annual financial assistance are in charge. It is proposed that Ukraine’s law be supplemented by an additional article of prime, which will determine the order of payment. Fragmentary. The draft law provides for the establishment of a clear statement that the numbering of one-time financial assistance is carried out by the employment and social protection agencies of the population. And it's determined how this money will come to the participants. To the recipients. This is because of the post office or the institution of the banks, and it is again emphasized, according to the recipient’s consent. The bill also stipulates that when a citizen is a member of several categories, it is stipulated by law that he is entitled to a greater choice. It is also proposed that this law be supplemented by provisions regulating the payment of one-off aid in the event of the death of the recipient by 5 May and in the case of the establishment of the status, in accordance with Articles 6, 7, 9, 10, 11 of the Act, after 5 May of the corresponding year in which the payment is made. In addition, the draft law takes into account the rule that this amount of lump sum will be exempt from tax. Noting the additional budget costs, except those that are set up annually by a separate line to finance this article. The Expert's observation that the exemption rate is not the norm of this law and that it is proposed to determine in legislation that regulates the taxation of citizens correctly and I think that we can work on the second reading of the article in the Final Regulations of the Law that aid is released before the adoption of the Tax Code. This will remove the problem. I propose, honourable national MPs, to support this bill and vote on Thursday as a basis for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u137	Thank you, Your Honor, Mikola Petrovich. Have a seat, please. I invite you to a report by Valentina Alexiyovich Anastassieva, head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u138	Valentin Anastasiaev, Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished deputies, colleagues! The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons has considered the Act amending the Law on the Status of War Veterans, the guarantees of their social protection, submitted by the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Noshchenko. The bill proposes to regulate the payment of one-time cash assistance to war veterans on the Day of Victory. In particular, it is proposed to define the “executive authority” which calculates the payment of the aid within the period during which the aid is paid, in the event of the death of the recipient. At the same time, the draft law takes into account the issue of the exemption of lump sums from income tax. The bill does not require additional expenditure from the budget, as these amounts are determined each year by the State Budget Act for the year in question. Once again, the celebration of the victory showed that the way in which such an action was carried out was to provide financial assistance to war veterans, Fatherhood Defenders for Victory Day, far from a clear system. Older persons and cities and areas, including the Supreme Council, and the Committee of the Supreme Council for Pensioners, Veterans, Persons with Disabilities, say that legislative order is required. Therefore, the Committee, noting the relevance of the amendments to the Veteran Status Act, the guarantees of their social protection, decided to support the author and proposed that the draft should be adopted on first reading and taken as a basis. At the same time, the members of the Committee had decided that article 17 should be worked out between the first and the second readings. The Chief Research and Expert Office also proposes the adoption of the proposed bill on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u139	Thank you. Please sit down. Let's move on to pros and cons. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin There's no Carmazin again? Is there a Carmazin? Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u140	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask that you always remember that Carmazin is, is, and will be. And there's going to be a party of homeland defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill. Yes, and the suffering people of Ukraine! Right, you see, I remember him, so thank you for filling in. I'd like to support the Bill of People's Deputies of Noshchenk, I'm in favour, you write it down. What I'd like to say is that the comments made by the Science-Expert Department about the fact that here we're going to give money to these veterans once, you see, we're not going to be taxing. Well, it's a shame to say what kind of income tax is there. Let's write this question separately, let's just write it down: there, it's not a bet, and it's the right Noshchenko wrote that "it's exempt from taxation by income tax on citizens." But the rules of the Budget Code require that we drive this, if we write this down, only since 2004, or we have to accept a change then, or somehow take that into account. I believe that the bill rightly raises the question that the money that belonged to the person and remained unreceivable in connection with her death, that it is not included in the inheritance and is included in the people who lived together, is quite right. Because veterans die every day, you literally prepare greetings, and in a few days you literally watch, you change people's lives. So it's a good thing we predicted it. And that's why I'm in favour of adopting this law. I don't think he's popular, absolutely, he's just regulating the payout mechanism. And I would like to thank the Noshchenka MP for paying attention to the veterans and for settling this moment. Thank you. Please accept the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u141	Thank you, too. Please, we have a Yuri. Solomonine, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u142	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Kyiv region Dear colleagues, you and I are considering a very interesting bill. From the point of view of common sense, it's almost unnecessary, because if we had a responsible government, all of these questions would certainly have been resolved a long time ago, and it wouldn't have been violated right here, in us, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now we're trying to carry the fifth wheel of the carriage that the government is driving us, and all the things that it doesn't do and it doesn't do for the most needy types of the population by individual laws, the changes to the laws have to be regulated. I'm not against this law, but I just want to emphasize that this law is only necessary in general because the government is working irresponsibly and properly demanded of it by the arbitrator of the nation and the guarantor of the Constitution. If the government were really subordinated to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as we are trying to prove with you in the course of political reform, this issue would not stand with us today. So I want to conclude this discussion. Political reform. It is in political reform that there is a stumbling block, including in dealing with the very issues that we are considering today in connection with this bill. In political reform, the main thing that is not announced is the non-partisan, completely irresponsible president, the non-partisan, completely irresponsible administration of the President of Ukraine, who come and go so that those forces that have moved up never have to be held accountable for what they have done during their stay in power. So I would like to announce this: let us, in political reform with you, make it like the civilized countries of the President politically responsible to have him promoted by a political power to be a member of this political party or bloc and she was responsible for him just as certain political powers for Nixon or for Bill Clinton when he played with the White House intern Monica Levinsky. Monique Levinsky and irresponsible presidents will not pass! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u143	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] We have two pros.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u144	Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to one aspect that flows organically from the 3027 bill. I don't think there's a person in this room who's going to vote whether to speak or argue against this bill. But I want to draw your attention to the question that the Committee on Social Policy and Labour is constantly facing. The point is that we have so many social benefits in Ukraine today, which, instead of good, bring both physical and moral suffering to people. At least remember the subsidies: How many hours do you have to go out, how many documents to collect, and where does it go, and how does it continue to operate? Payments to children from low-income families, multi-child families -- all of this is accompanied by constant physical and moral suffering. Is that why I'd like to ask? I would ask the government and the government to open up a Ukrainian Stock Exchange Society to propose, by analogy with this bill, a payment order of 50 or 150 dollars per year for lost savings. It could be 1 percent of the amount of money to create the bodies Saving the necessary jobs and developing the process itself, because we're back in line with the new trance, the new amount, and we're going to see people from the third, fourth hour in the morning take turns to get their money. So this bill, number 3027, which seems to be narrowly applied to one aspect, can be by procedure, in order, by approach, and applied to other social benefits. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who's against it? Who else would mind? Please, Olga Hinzburg, against me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable voters, distinguished Volodymyr Mikhailovich, thank you. 161 constituency, Communist Party faction. We are, of course, against the condition of the veterans they are in today. And perhaps no one sitting in the hall today is against it, either. By addressing and discussing this law, I wanted to contact the veterans who are listening to us today, for the law of each individual will be affected. And it's very interesting about the status of war veterans, the guarantee of their social protection, the persons on whom this law applies and the persons who have special merit before the Father have the right to receive annual financial assistance on Victory Day. Expenditure for these purposes is approved by the Ukrainian State Budget Act for the corresponding year. The payment mechanism is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm talking to radio listeners, especially veterans. The essence of this bill on the status of veterans and guarantees of social protection is what. According to this article, the payment of annual financial assistance to war veterans refers to the competence of labour and social protection agencies and is to be made through the post office or through banks. Individuals who are being punished at places of deprivation or detention are going through personal accounts at the scene. But what can we disagree with? The amount of cash money paid is not due late on September 31. It is not clear, and I am very grateful to the honourable MP Noshchenko who proposed this bill. But on September 31st, it's probably very late, it's necessary before Victory Day, if that's before Victory Day. And when I finished my speech, I was going to say, well, Nightshenko, if you hadn't passed or someone else did, then what would you have done? And all of these problems that are happening in our country today are affecting our government and our President. It takes someone to hold this problem in one hand and bring it to the Supreme Council for discussion. In order not to sit and wait for one person to submit this bill, then it will be better, and if not, then we will suffer. Then, once again, these problems need to be sharpened and brought to the attention of the Supreme Council, why is the government working so hard today when the state’s problems do not exacerbate them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u147	Dear colleagues! Who else is against this bill? Please, Vladimir Cherniak. I only ask for a brief, distinguished colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, of course I'm behind the adoption of this bill and the previous bill. I'm against this limitation, I just want to take this opportunity and draw the attention of the Ukrainian Parliament to the development of social policy issues, systemic, forward-looking, strategic development of social policy issues. Now most of our population is outside the poverty line. And Parliament's priority attention should be focused on social issues. Of course, based on the growth of the economy, ensure the growth of prosperity. We solve social issues by putting out forest fires. There's a specific question, we're trying to solve it, and it's the right thing to do. But you can't limit yourself to that. This is a palatative solution, and we need systemic, strategic and forward-looking solutions. And I'm surprised that I feel guilty about working in Parliament in this way. I think we really need to hold a parliamentary hearing on social policy in Ukraine. The social situation, which was talked about, in fact, by all the MPs, what the situation was, what were the reasons that were the most painful, painful points and what our recommendations on social policy-making in Ukraine were. What do we have? We have a specific bill by Feldman, not to limit the payment of social assistance to a disabled person, especially if it was his fault. And what do we see? The Vice Prime Minister of Humanitarian Policy denies it. Although there are virtually no additional payments. So there's caution in the government because he's afraid he won't pay. And if we develop an active, effective social policy, we put it in the budget step by step, then the government will be our ally, and we will work together to raise the standard of living of our constituents, then send us here to represent and protect their interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u149	Mikola Nightshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u150	Dear National Deputies! I'm talking about Olga Gunzburg's speech, and I want to explain the next thing that it's not about us paying by September 31st. That's the rule when the principal payments are due on the 5th. All the money is budgeted by May 5. But for various reasons, the situation may be that a person cannot receive this help. And the existing practice was that the money was paid by the end of the year, which was huge. For example, last year, 16 million unpaid money. Treasury failed to bring them back at the right time and to use them effectively. But we will consider, perhaps to avoid blurring the idea of paying off, we will write it down better. And the next thing I want to say is that this bill was prepared and passed in February. And we wanted to welcome him by welcoming all the participants in the war with victory. By voting in favour of Thursday, we will join in the greetings of victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u151	Thank you. The Cabinet of Ministers. Lydia Mikolayevna. For or against this bill, the government? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u152	The government supports this bill, which was introduced by the distinguished national MP, Mikola Petrovic Noshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u153	Is that okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u154	Supports.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-20-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Then we have every reason to vote for him on Thursday for this law. The bill has been completed. We're going to make a decision on this document under number 2470. 3027 on Vote Day. Dear colleagues! The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00.
