ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:17]] Registered -416 There are 416 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, put your cards in the nest, please. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies, Oliynik Petr Mihajlovich and Rodionov Mikhail Kuzmić. [[Applause]] Let us welcome them, wish them longevity, including political and happiness in personal life. Great, yes, great happiness. Dear National Deputies, according to the Rules today, we work in decision-making mode. A draft decree on the Ukrainian-Polish Parliamentary Statement in connection with the 60th anniversary of the Volin tragedy is being announced. Out of procedure, National Deputy Kachure. I'm asking the deputy head of the Committee for Foreign Affairs of Bichkov. Out of procedure, five minutes per procedure, honorary colleagues, so there's no questions. Everyone else has to sign up for the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I would like to clarify a procedural question: please explain how is the day-to-day question of sending the project to the Constitutional Court? Is it about the law, or is it about direction?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u3	Dear National Deputies! I just want to tell you again that we're talking about direction, we're not writing about first reading, we're talking about second reading. We write the law and everything. We've already determined that, and the question is clear to us. Let's not talk about it. Yes, Andrew School. On the board is the name of the deputies who signed up for the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I address you! Volodymyr Mikhailovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u5	I'm listening carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u6	Have you had a conversation with the Sejma about this statement, and are there any final reconciliations, or are there any trailers, editorials, or anything else, I'd like to hear? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u7	Now, before you begin your consideration of this matter, I will inform you, honourable national deputies. Yes, Groszev, it's written down here, but I can't give it to you like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u8	Please give the floor to Mroz Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u9	Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u10	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! I think that before the question that is really complicated today, what is involved in political reform, you will then go into detail about the procedure for dealing with it as we agreed on at the Conciliation Council. And with regard to the first question of the sixtieth anniversary of the Volin Tragedy, I wanted to suggest this, more faithfully, because the draft of this statement is agreed upon by both Polish colleagues and our colleagues, and we can't, I made editorial clarifications there at the same time. Perhaps this is a failure of translation itself to use and write this statement more fluently. If you don't mind, if that doesn't conflict.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u11	No, I'm saying right now that we can't change a single coma or accept a document at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u12	Let's do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u13	Well, let the session room determine if we want to strengthen our relationship. Yes, please, Kosinov. Kosov, I'm sorry, Mikhailo Kosov. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u14	Michael Kossov, faction of our Ukraine, the Reform and Order Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, since this is a matter of order for the first time, and it has not been discussed before, we have not had the opportunity to discuss it in our factions and to speak in this session room at all, I think, once again, before the final decision, we should have had an exchange of thoughts before the vote. As far as I know, yesterday in the Polish Parliament, this statement was discussed very long and very violently. I think we should also discuss this issue at our meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u15	I, my dear colleagues, would like to say that everyone who wanted to have a chance to discuss this issue on factions. What's going on in the Polish Seima, let's go to Parliament. Please, Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please pass the word to Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u17	Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u18	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would like to propose a good way out of the situation that arose yesterday at the end of the meeting with regard to the budget related to the transition of the Union to another location, and the payments with him have gone away. There is a very good solution, which I think will be completely satisfactory for all, and above all for the people of Ukraine. I propose nationalizing this industry, then there will be no problems where the administration is located, where the enterprise is located and where the taxes are paid. Please consider my proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u19	I'm asking you to make a draft ruling in the proper order or draft law, or we'll look at it. And the draft decision, one minute, is to be prepared. As soon as it's sold out, we'll vote. To make your amendment, we will also vote for it. I'm asking you to be civil. Sergey Headate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u20	Please pass the word to Stepan Cloud, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u21	Stepan Cloud, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u22	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! This statement, which we are considering, should have been discussed, is an extremely important political document, which concerns both the honour of the nation and the political perspective. I want to prove to you that yesterday there were very sharp discussions in the Polish Seima, there were extremely aggressive anti-Ukrainian incidents, and the Polish Seima did not approve of this statement, he postponed its consideration. And I think we've got nowhere to go, and we've got to put this off. And let the historians at that time work, and our politicians will learn a little bit about how to protect the national interests and national honor of Ukraine and the Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u23	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, time is up. Please, Sergey Bichkov to the rostrum. Very briefly, please describe how the training process took place, who participated, and how the positions were aligned. I'm very short, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! The Ukrainian-Polish conflict in Volina, which is 60 years past July, remains one of the most complex unresolved problems in Ukrainian-Polish relations. First of all, the problem is actually complicated. Unlike Poland, the issue of the anniversary of the Volin tragedy was not long before the Ukrainian society. In Poland, information about this Ukrainian-Polish ethnic conflict has been widely reported for many years in the press, monographs have been published, historical and statistical studies have been carried out. In Ukraine this process had just begun. The solution to the problem is complicated by Poland and Ukraine’s different approaches to enlightenment and by the short - term persistent stereotypes in the public opinion of each country. For decades anti - Ukrainian organizations in Poland have used these tragic events to form a negative image of Ukrainians in Polish society. If the status of the parties and the treatment of historical facts can be disputed, the position of the Polish leadership on the translation of the offence into the Ukrainian rebel army can be considered totally unacceptable. In doing so, it should be noted that the events in Volina took place in wartime, during occupation, when both sides tried at any cost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u25	Let's go on application as the statement has been considered. What do you evaluate?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u26	Stand up for your own independence. The statement was considered by the Ukrainian-Polish joint group, which included members of Joulinsky, School, Shevchuk, Bichkov. This was changed by three rounds of negotiations: 2 in Poland, 1 in Ukraine, where we each found a common language and a joint edition of our statement. Because it was first decided that the declaration should be common to two parliaments in the name of the future cooperation of two of our parliaments, two of our peoples. This is the second, final edition that is now proposed to you, which was also discussed at the Committee on Foreign Affairs yesterday. The vote took place with virtually all the votes in favour, except for four votes against by the Communist factions and the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, a tragedy in the sense of those who worked in the group is, in our view, that Ukraine has been fought by those who wanted to defend the dignity and dignity of our state. Dear colleagues, the German and French, the German and the Czech have come a hard way. And we need the Poles with whom our military will now work side by side abroad to accept this joint statement. You can do it in any way, but on the basis of that, our colleagues already cooperated with the draft joint statement of both the Ukrainian Parliament and the Polish Semester. One statement by the presidents scheduled for Volina will not be sufficient, because it is in Parliament that there is a mandate for the people to make statements on behalf of Ukraine in the name of the common future, in the name of Ukrainian-Polish friendship, in the name of independence both in our country and in the name of our immediate neighbours. I'm asking you to support this draft statement. He was also supported by members of the Ukrainian-Polish Inter-Parliamentary Assembly. Please be supportive. Thank you very much. I'm ready to answer the question, I've given it time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u27	I'm asking you not to run it. I'll figure it out without you. I'm asking you to behave like this. Five minutes to ask. Sign up. I said log in, then get out of the procedure. Sign up. Five minutes to ask. Yes, on board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Mikhailo Radionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u28	The Communist faction, the Radionov. Please pass the word to a fellow Phydenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u29	People's MP, Phydenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u30	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, of course, raises many questions after we are familiar with the draft of the decision that we have proposed. First. Why, on such a serious issue, the commission was formed by a single - floor committee, and one day it passed past the meeting room of the Supreme Council. Perhaps something had to be taken more seriously. As far as we know, and yesterday, an article from the National Patriotic Orientation newspaper was posted that nothing happened: Poles are offering a completely different text, and we have a completely different one. What we're saying is that we've come to an agreement doesn't fit the reality. And now if we start to analyze the draft decree and here's a statement on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the Volin tragedy. The MP says it's a conflict. Next. The 60th anniversary of the tragedy of the Polish population on Volina begins, so you recognize what the Poles say was, in fact, a huge variety of Poles. You know, it's not worth it. And as a Ukrainian, I have a negative view of the proposed decision, and as a communist, it's even more negative.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u31	Dear colleague! We wrote in a joint statement that this is the 60th anniversary of the tragedy on Volina, and the statement is signed by both the Ukrainian and the Polish parties who participated in the negotiations. I was motivated only by the desire to establish historical truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u32	I want to complement the People's Deputy, that we have a Parliamentary Assembly. The Inter-Parliamentary Assembly discussed this issue. Anyone who wanted not to read the newspapers and not only read the newspapers but also work on the draft decrees had the opportunity to do so. Please, Stepan Gavrish. Gavrish's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u33	Dear colleagues! I feel that such an application must be accepted. And we must also discuss how each political power in Parliament should express its point of view. I think that accepting such a statement will stabilize our relationship not only with Poland but also lead to stable relations within civil society in Ukraine. So I urge everyone today to accept this application in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u34	Sergey Golovaty, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u35	Please pass the word to Levkov Lukyanenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u36	Leukyanko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u37	Lukyanenko, the faction of Julia Timoshenko Dear Mr. Head! Deputies! I have before me the original document of the creation of a Polish group that posed a question to Parliament, the President and the Polish government about the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the so-called massacre on the Voline of the Polish population. This decree has an informational part that consists of completely wrong statements, a false statement, a false statement. This statement came to Ukraine. And the President gave an order, one of which reads, "Ensure a publication prepared by the Institute for Ukrainian Studies on the death of Polish citizens." And it's not about Ukrainian citizens! Then there's the last point that compares the events on Volin to Spain, when they were completely different things. Dear Mr. Head! This problem is extremely important. Thus, it cannot be solved. I signed up for the show from the rostrum the other night. I suggest or open up a real discussion, and the best part is to put the question aside for consideration later. Because Ukrainian society is not ready, and only our scientists have just begun to study the subject. And Poles who have long been prepared for this subject have given a lot of false facts. Ukrainian scientists have just begun to collect these facts.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u38	Thank you. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u39	Dear colleagues! The point is that hatred and conflict between us have always been used by opposers both in Ukraine and in Poland. And this joint statement should have served and should have served the continued friendship and well - being of the Ukrainian and Polish nations, accompanied by the establishment of true facts. And a joint group that worked within the Ukrainian-Polish Assembly, which was only born, studied and fixed all the formulations that came, and proposals, from all the members of Parliament. And it is our moral duty now to honor the memory of those who laid down just 60 years ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u40	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer, I ask you to listen carefully. Just a minute. Give me a chance, come on. Ivan Aleksandrovitch, earthling, sit down, calm down! Dates. I'm speaking Ukrainian again. There's a three-minute offer. We have 13 leaders and 13 MP groups and factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] I will now put two motions to the vote, you vote. I'll do it. Ivan Aleksandrovitch, calm down. I'm on my way. There are two proposals, honourable national MPs, one for faction leaders, the other for discussion. Well, one minute! Just a minute. In 30 minutes. I'm fine. What? You don't have to. Dear colleagues, you don't have to. I'm voting on the first proposal. Please make up your mind. Calm down. From the factions to speak, I've already said the offer. [[10:22:42]] For 305 Please, our Ukraine faction, prepare for the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u41	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to express the position that is in the faction of Ukraine from the question. First and key. Dear friends, what do we want to achieve with this decision? For me personally and, I'm sure, for a large part of the people who care about tomorrow. We have to assume that we don't have to lose our partnership with the Polish side. On the other hand, we must pay full respect to those who are victims of this incident. I am convinced that the biggest failure for Ukraine would be to create a new conflict in Polish-Ukrainian relations. The decision is not simple. The decision is governmental, moral, and spiritual. So we came out of these very considerations in faction discussions and accepted the following motives. It is impossible to balance, to form parity on letters of blood, or on the number of innocently murdered on one side or the other. Politicians and political elites should assume political responsibility for the road to historical reconciliation. So the faction's decision was to give a free vote to each of the members of the faction "Our Ukraine" and to decide on their own, coming out of the patriotic, national and moral positions on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u42	Yes, Peter Mikolaiovich. Who will act? Please, Valery Mishur. Then from "Ukrainen Region" if you want to speak, prepare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! The Communist faction will not vote on the proposed project. I'll explain why. First of all, I want us to look at the historical facts that show that the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution of 1917, Ukraine as a state, had no borders of its own. The State that took place in 1991 and the State that took place in 1917 had nothing to do with the tragedy that took place on Volina. It's the second one, she didn't fight. It seems to me that we stand in such a position that neither the Ukrainian people nor the Polish people have anything to do with this tragedy. This tragedy has to do with certain political forces that must apologize to one another and inform the entire Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] That's our position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u44	Please, from the "Regions of Ukraine" of King Oleg. Prepare from the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, "Urrigible Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! I came specifically from the faction to the meeting in which this matter was addressed. And I want to say it was very hard to talk to the Polish side. There were normal people there, but they said that they had the same power in Parliament as in our Parliament, which sometimes tried to earn political capital on such matters. And every word, we've said every word, we've chosen it in such a way that it's the most neutral language. I understand that the peoples are not to blame, the peoples are never to blame in any way, but we must accept this statement because we must build our future for good, for friendship, for constructive relations. That's why the faction will vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u46	So, the Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs, "Urgent Ukraine," will you be giving a speech? Is it? Is there not? What? Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! The Hard Ukraine faction appeals to all parliamentary colleagues to support this statement today, now, during the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u48	Social-Democratic faction, faction of the Social-Democratic Party. [[united]] Who will act? Please, Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk. Prepare for Democratic Initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u49	Dear National Deputies! The statement is as complex for us as it is for Ukrainian society. But it must be taken to open the way to friendly relations, partnership between Ukraine and Poland, the Ukrainian and Polish peoples. But I would like to propose comments and suggestions on the application. So the first key sentence, "The 60th anniversary of the Polish tragedy on Volina and Galicin." This means that this tragedy was not caused or carried out by the Poles themselves. Hence, the tragedy was caused by the Ukrainian population. So I propose "The 60th anniversary of the tragedy of the Ukrainian and Polish population, and beyond." Next, the tragedy of the Poles, who were killed and expelled from their homes by the armed formations of Ukrainians, was accompanied by equal suffering of the Ukrainian people. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's like someone. We can't do that, so here we have to say that it was killed and expelled, and the Poles, just like the Polish armed forces, killed the Ukrainians. I emphasize that we cannot accept an application that would degrade Ukraine's dignity. [[Applause]] We can't. And it's not just about national patriots, it's about all Ukrainians, if they're really Ukrainian. [[Applause]] Then edit according to this key paragraph, then edit it accordingly. And this will answer, we will feel that we are patriots of Ukraine, that we are Ukrainians living in an independent Ukrainian state.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u50	From the Democratic Initiatives, please, Stepan Gavrish. Prepare for the Socialist Party of Ukraine Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u51	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I would like to thank Leonid Macarovich Krawczuk for the position he took on this parliamentary stand. It is very important to the Ukrainian nation, to those who today consider themselves to be Ukrainian political elites. Indeed, there is no perfect justice, no absolute truth. And we understand that there is another major flaw in this statement, namely: the unspoken responsibility formula of those who provoked this tragedy. These are the Nazis, the Nazi Germany, which has led not only to military opposition but also to the irritation of the special relations that took place at this time in this place, in Volina. I think that this responsibility should lie with those who have led to the tragedy of the world during World War II. At the same time, of course, we need to look for ways to achieve mutual reconciliation. And this is what all the nations of the world have done today, at this time. I think this road is the only road for us with the Polish people. We need to look back into the future, in the past in such a way that we do not find common problems today that undermine our relationship, which make our borders tense, but the tensions between our nations. I think that this statement should necessarily be written in the first sentence that it is a tragedy of necessity and of the Ukrainian population, which also physically, historically, mentally, spiritually suffered during this time and suffered a long period of World War II. We also have to write down here, in the closing paragraph, that it wasn't just the armed formation of the Ukrainians, it was the Ukrainians who were affected by the Polish armed actions. We have to write down a formula that would give us one sense of responsibility for these historical events, and give it an honest assessment. I think we need to rethink the first paragraph and make that decision today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u52	Alexander Frost of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. "European Choice," will you give the speech? Samofalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council. The question is extremely complex, although it has a very clear basis. What should we do when we consider the matter? Poland and Ukraine are two sovereign states, two neighbours. Are we planning to live in a good neighborhood with Poland further? Polacks think of living in a good neighborhood with Ukraine? Of course. And that's why it's very important today, paying attention to events that have already become historic, tragic in their foundation, to think about how to do this, to give our peoples a signal that everything is tragic, all the bad things that have happened in the past, and this past is not limited to 60 years, but to the previous centuries, so that it doesn't spoil our relationship for the future. And in that sense, it is very important to make a simultaneous decision between the two parliaments. Because that would be an example of understanding for our peoples. Therefore, I think it is very important that the leadership of our Parliament be linked to the leadership of the Polish Parliament. And if there is a need, some clarifications are editorial. I made my proposals, handed them over, they're registered. To make a balanced document that could be voted on at the same time, I emphasize once again. Because that is precisely what will guarantee the effect of such a step by the parliaments of the two nations on explaining, on taking lessons from this tragic page in the history of both nations. And there's one more detail that we need to think about when we're fighting between each other, usually, and this and that, even on a living level, is always going to be won by someone else. And we need to know that there will never be another between us, Ukraine, and Poland. We must find out for ourselves that the tragedy that occurred 60 years ago in Volina did not have a bitter effect on either the Ukrainian or the Polish peoples. I think that, as a result of this, we need to postpone the consideration of this issue, to vote on it definitively, with the Polish side that we are taking such an act on the same day. Because it's not about the moment that the tragedy took place in these days that we're making a decision, but about the fact that we're making the same decision at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u54	From the European Choice, please, Gennady Samofalov. Is "The People's Landing" going to be a performance? If so, prepare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u55	We had a statement on behalf of the parliamentary group. The problem is very difficult because it's been 60 years. Peace became a second. We have become many others, but historical justice must be for us and for our descendants. Of course, what is happening today is causing difficulties between the two States. We believe that today we have very serious internal economic, political problems that we cannot solve on our own today. Therefore, we have come to the conclusion that someone must take the first step. We are ready to support this statement today. In principle, I agree with Alexander Alexandrovich, which may indeed need to be looked at more carefully, agreed upon and agreed upon by both sides to come to consensus. Today, in principle, most of our group is prepared to support this statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u56	From the People's Authority MP Oreste Klimpus. From the Agrarian Party of Ukraine, please, Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u57	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Today, we are really considering a very important historical issue that is on the way to our people’s future historical destiny. So we have to, of course, when these issues are resolved, they are resolved from a historical point of view. Today we have this process where almost one European community is being formed across Europe. We have also declared this a final goal for ourselves, and for the Ukrainian people, the ultimate goal is to enter and become a full member of the European community. And in this context, of course, our good-neighbourly relations with our immediate neighbors are extremely important. I represent this region here, you know, the Zakarpatsk region, it borders with four countries in Europe, including Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania. We have very tolerant principles, in our people, we are very tolerant of what's going on, always thinking about the future, about our children. Today, there is just one step. We would like to support this action, this action of our parliament, aimed at reconciliation, for recognition. Indeed, our political elite should shoulder this responsibility and do everything in our future to be positive. But we also join those statements that were made, and the position that was expressed by Leonid Macarovich Kravczuk, Stephen Bogdanović Gavrish, that we should not lose or humiliate the dignity of our people. We need to understand that it was a common tragedy for both nations and nations, and the nations are not to blame. And that's why we think that we need to make the necessary changes in order to make this right. And the statement as a whole needs to be supported, we urge you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u58	Catherine Timofievna Vashuk of the faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine Prepare Valery Pavlovich Desert of the NDP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, all that applies to the historical fate of the nations, is always not easy to consider. I was born and lived in the territory where all the tragic sides of the struggle of the two nations were passing. What does this tell us about the struggle? Each nation fought for its own country. Each nation chose its own independence. These are not just the events mentioned in the statement. These are the events of the Koljivščina era, these are the events of the national-liberal struggle of Bogdan Hmielnickýk, these are the events of the last. I'm absolutely in agreement with those speakers who have noticed that we can't avoid making changes in such formulations. When it comes to great suffering, murder, sacrifices on the part of one nation, and only to be called, the suffering of the other, weight on the one hand is inclined. In our village, both of them died, even in my family, people who died during these events. So when I talk to the faction, I offer it. If this is possible today, we need to reconcile the rights on our part to reconcile them with the Poles, not insulting the Poles, but not demeaning the dignity of the Ukrainian. What's supposed to be like this is totally common knowledge. What we need to learn from this is also true. And that one day you have to put a dot on it is true. But this has to be done the same way on both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u60	Valerius Pavlovich Pashtowatenko of the People's Democratic Party of Ukraine, from the faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine. Get ready for Vasile Right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u61	Dear friends, thank you for giving me your word. What I'm saying is that in the history of Ukraine and Poland, there were very difficult and complicated relationships. I would like to see that those historical events that have been going on for many centuries do not affect our future relationship. And I can tell you boldly that Sergei Shevchuk, who worked with our party, from our faction with the Ukrainian-Polish problem, knows her well, understands her. And we're clearly expressing our position that we need to be more concerned today about the Ukrainians, about the people who were affected by the genocide that was in Western Ukraine, I mean that's exactly the Polish-Ukrainian tragedy that happened. And further our relationship should turn and be guided on equal terms. I apologize to Vladimir Mikhailovich, in front of the people's deputies. On Monday there were a group of dockers in Odessa, and I was asked to address the Chief of the Supreme Council and Victor Yanukovich. Unfortunately, I did not have the opportunity this week. So if you'll excuse me, I'll read this address. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished Victor Fedorovich! We refer to you as President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has declared the priority country the course for European integration, for the construction of the rule of law. Labour collectives, Tokari, Italians, players, mechanics, joint ventures in the Odessa Sea Trade Port are concerned about the policies of the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine, the maritime industry as a whole, and the Odessa Port in particular. We are concerned about the situation surrounding the port of Odessa and the joint venture. And I'm gonna cut back on my speech. Please appoint an independent parliamentary government commission to examine the situation at the Odessa Seaport. Second. To cease unwarranted innumerable inspections of the Odessa Sea Trade Port and joint ventures by allowing labour groups to continue normal activities under conditions that have confirmed their effectiveness in existing joint action treaties. Prevent the activities of officials of the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine and Ukrmorport, aimed at the laundering of funds from the Odessa Sea Trade Port, and to stabilize the port situation. To initiate a verification of the legality and direction of recovery of the working capital of the maritime sector of Ukrmorport. On behalf of and on behalf of labour groups, joint ventures and nine representatives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u62	Please, Basil Nadrag, then we'll have Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u63	Dear colleagues! Vassili Nadrag, People's Choice, Lugansk Region. Today's topic is basically two things: the first is to understand and assess what happened 60 years ago, and the second is equally important -- what must we do today? And when we talk about what happened 60 years ago on Volina, we shouldn't talk about who's more, who's less. There people went to people: Poles to Ukrainians, Ukrainians to Poles, and senselessly today, 60 years later, to find out who was more responsible for this topic, because both of them concerned human life and human life paid for their ambitions of politics. And so when we discuss this topic today, on behalf of the People's Choice, I just want to say one thing: we believe that this is a common disaster, a common tragedy, because the people who died there, regardless of their nationality, are the people who had the right to life, and this right has been taken from them. What must we do today, and how can we assess this? Of course, if we do not express our position today, and therefore Ukraine's position on this subject, I am not sure in this case that we will do something useful, because if there is no good relations today, then tomorrow will not be a good, good Ukrainian-Polish relationship. Today's peoples, today's nations, neither Ukraine nor Poland, are interested in living differently, because if we don't understand each other, it's on the hands of someone else. There's no point in finding out. The main thing is that it won't be of any use to all of us. Therefore, when we speak of this statement today, we, the People's Choice, believe that in this case we must accept this statement. On the other hand, we believe that the amendment that has already been made here by many, including Leonid Makarović, must be made on his part, which in this case was a general disaster, a general tragedy. From that logic, we must then understand, and in the same logic, therefore, build our present and tomorrow Ukrainian-Polish relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u64	Yes, the block of Yulia Timoshenko. The leader of the Julia Timoshenko block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u65	Julia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues today are friendly, warm, and constructive. We are working together in all areas of our lives. But I do have a question that comes to mind, just when we're in the prime of a relationship, when we're in the process of making and accepting statements that turn back decades and disunite our peoples completely for no reason? I don't think such things are random. I want to say on behalf of the political power that I'm in charge of, that we're in a friendly relationship, but friendship isn't built when one side is on its knees, when one side is bending and one side is forced to bend. This is not a friendly relationship. We will be respected only if our dignity is so high and dignified that this respect will not result from declarations but from our equal, equal relations. I want to ask you, did we forget how our grandparents, our parents, including with weapons in their hands, stood up for our sacred land for the Ukrainians? I'm asking, who do we have to condemn today? They? So let's be honest. I'm asking, who do we have to apologize to today? Have we ever captured or occupied Polish land? We've never done that in history. And I don't think Ukrainians have to apologize for even being in this world. We do. [[Applause]] We need to realize that our holy earth has been protected and protected forever, even with weapons in our hands. And I want to say that's what every nation does. And so I don't think there are any statements that separate the Polish people and the Ukrainian people. We need to study history and understand it. And support your nation, your country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, for another 15 minutes, I have an offer, let's discuss this. Is there no objection? On the board are the names of those who signed up, please. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u67	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, our party and our faction have adopted the right attitude and have identified these developments that are being discussed. In this regard, a statement was made to the Presidium of the Central Committee of the Company of Ukraine in connection with the 60th anniversary of the Volin Tragedy. I have a task to convey to you its contents. Yes, indeed, those events that took place 60 years ago require a true and impartial assessment today in order not to harm the further development of good-neighbourly, partnership-based interstate relations between our countries. But, at the same time, it is impossible to assume both hiding and distorting historical facts that are becoming more and more familiar. The blame and responsibility for the mass destruction of the Polish and Ukrainian civilians on the Wall during the years of the war rests entirely and completely on the political organization of the Ukrainian nationalists of the UN and the unconstitutional Ukrainian army of the UPA. At the same time, we have no right to silence the destructive actions of the Polish armed forces against the Ukrainian population. Today, we can conclude that a genuine brotherly war between neighboring nations has led to an absurd nationalistic idea on both sides. And we've already heard today, both in the Polish Seima, and in our Supreme Council of Ukraine, these forces are trying to push their minds out over and over again. And an eunuch-planned Volin anti-polish clearing action is a purposeful implementation of similar fascist ideas, and documentary evidence of this more than enough. However, it should be emphasized that the whole Ukrainian people are not responsible for this bloodshed, for the UN has never reflected its will, and the people of Ukraine have nothing to repent and apologize for. Not only did tens of thousands of Poles die at the hands of UPA’s criminals, but thousands of Ukrainians who condemned UN UPA’s terror supported the Soviet guerrillas and were members of Soviet power, rescued their Polish neighbors, or simply refused to take part in the crimes of the bandits. We have to officially acknowledge the UN UPA massive action that was carried out in Volina. The fact of the genocide of the Polish people, the condemnation of this crime, the separation from the actions of Ukrainian nationalists and the sympathy of the victims of the Volin tragedy on both sides. The Ukrainian independent state today has nothing to do with those events.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u68	Yuri Carmazin, next Tragnibok. Yuri Carmazin, please. It's a ribbish instead of a ribbish. Please, Paul Zebrowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that I am a Ukrainian of Polish origin, and I am one of the representatives of Žitomirščina, where more than 140,000 Ukrainians of Polish origin. I would like to say that we are in pain when people say bad things about Poles, and it certainly hurts when they speak very badly about Ukrainians. I would like our determination, our statement, to be a unifying factor, not a disuniting one. What Victor Yushchenko said, that measuring the blood with liters that the greater Ukrainian or Polish spilled, we certainly can't. We have to admit that there was a tragedy on both the Ukrainian side and the Polish side. Because of this statement, we need to accept it. However, it would be desirable for this statement to be focused, not on the Polish side, but on both sides, that the tragedy of the Ukrainian and Polish population should be added. In addition, we believe that in the second sentence instead of "tragedy," it needs to be written "the suffering of the Poles," and the words "who killed and expelled from their homes the armed formations of the Ukrainians" need to be excluded and the "sacrifices of the Polish armed forces" also excluded. Because of this, we will be partyed, and then we will not measure the amount of blood there was. If such a statement is accepted by us, it will be important. We must apologize to the Polish people, the Polish people must apologize to us. If it's on this parity principle, I think it'll be pragmatic, and it'll be right for the harmony of the Polish and Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u70	Oleg Tuggnibok. Next Leukko Luk’nenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u71	Dear colleagues! I want to speak, not from the faction, but from myself and to express my opinion. Let's ask ourselves, "Why do the Poles today demand an apology from the Ukrainian authorities?" And the answer is only one. When the 50th anniversary of the tragedy was 10 years ago, the Poles were just afraid of the newly created Ukrainian state. Today, they use the weakness of Ukrainian power to humiliate our Ukrainian national dignity and our Ukrainian national pride. And that's why I want to go now, my friends, to us, to all the Ukrainians in this room, let's not let our dignity and our national pride sink today. Today they want to hit us with their foreheads, and they want to hit Leonid Kuchma, who deliberately provokes this situation. [[Applause]] The current situation caused by his regime has led to repression on the Wall. A few days ago, nine members of the NHRI were arrested just for wanting to promote their ideas. We can treat views differently, but what militia officers have the right to use repressive means to threaten, destroy, arrest people who simply want to promote their worldlords and their views. I want to ask the company one more question. Can you please tell me whether one of the Poles died under Cracow or under Warsaw? The situation was in Volina. Volin is a Ukrainian land. And we need to understand that our people were protecting their land, our people were protecting their territory, our people were protecting their homes. And let us not give in to this provocation. I want to appeal again, friends, friends, I'm talking to you, and I want to appeal to our dignity. But no one in Europe or in the world will respect us as we show ourselves how we can humiliate ourselves. Let's do this, if we want to be really a great European civilised state, let's do this in a way that respects us so that we can go to Europe not because of humiliation, not on our knees, not with our heads down, but with our heads up. And let's say here, in this room, you can't accept those statements, you can't accept those statements that compromise our Ukrainian nation! You cannot accept statements that are completely silent! Poles haven't accepted that statement yet. Where are we going? Let's wait. I appeal to you again, and appeal to your national dignity, I appeal to your national pride. And I'm just convinced, society, if we do business with you and we think about Ukrainian national interests, then we will be able to achieve what we want to achieve -- the real Ukrainian state. Let's not humiliate anyone. Or should we apologize for Mazep in front of Russia right now? Can we apologize to the Turks for the kosher Sirk? Can we apologize to the world at all?Oh, my God! Society, I urge you, let's preserve our national pride, let's not make our Ukrainian people destroyed and humiliated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u72	Lejko Grigorovich Lukjanenko, please. Next Red One.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u73	Thank you, Mr. Head. Honorable MPs, distinguished voters who listen to us. Indeed, the problem of Ukrainian-Polish relationships is complex and very meaningful and very multifaceted. I have a document that started in Poland called action. [[Polish]] 1939-1947. Address to Sejm and the Senate. [[quote in Polish]] In Poland chauvinistic sentiments are quite widespread. Here's a group that goes to the government and to all the higher authorities in Poland, and this document starts with a reference. - starts with a description of the events in 1943-1944. This address is completely false, if necessary, I'll translate it and you'll read what a·neiʹa is written here at all. This document came to our President and the President gave the order. This is an assignment that I have here, it shows an absolute absence from our political elite, which is centered around the President and a sense of national dignity, and a knowledge of the history of Ukrainian-Polish relations. See, it is in this commission that he undertakes to publish our historians ’ research on the death of Polish citizens in Ukraine, and there is nothing about the death of Ukrainian citizens. This is how our President takes care of the Poles, not the Ukrainians. Now, what's more, as evidenced by the absolute ignorance of history, is the last point that compares events in Spain to events that took place on Volina. Thus, there was civil war in Spain, and after the war two sides of one nation became reconciled and set up a monument that is an example of humanity. Here are those who died because of what they believed in. The relationship between Ukraine and Poland is quite different. I mean, when did the Ukrainians take over Polish land? Never. But the Poles continued to climb the Ukrainian land. And now we have to mourn those invaders who went to Ukrainian territory. So let's mourn the Germans, let's mourn the Turks, let's mourn the other invaders who went to our land and put the Cossack's sword in our land. After all, do we have a sense of national dignity, or have we completely lost it under the conditions of 70 or three hundred - year - old Russian slavery? Ukraine, like any country in the world, can never ask for respect and good relations on its knees. If we want a good relationship with the Poles, and we want to do so, these relationships should be built on the basis of trueness and a sense of self - worth. And you don't have to worry that we're going to offend the Poles. We won't hurt them. And I'm sure, looking ahead, as we look forward, we'll be guided by Lech Valence's words, who said, "Without an independent Ukraine, there can't be an independent Poland." This should be our motto, not the digging in the past, they've ripped out one 43 years and they want to build relationships on it. The relationship between Ukraine and Poland is not limited to 43 and 44 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u74	Basil Red, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u75	Dear friends, certainly the history of Ukrainian-Polish relations did not begin or end in 43. And I'm surprised why we should be building our relationship today, with a starting point of 43 years. If we're talking about reconciliation between two peoples, it's obviously necessary to make reconciliation in at least the last 700 years of Ukrainian-Polish relations. And if we create a precedent for accepting a statement today in fact in the 43rd year, in a year, we will automatically have to go back to the 700,000 claim acceptance project. Ukrainians from Poland. And then there's Operation Vistula. And that will not be the end. And that's why it's a dangerous precedent. Brandt's example, the reconciliation of Germany and Poland and Germany-Czechia, is completely inappropriate. Unlike Germany, Ukraine did not start a war or occupy foreign Polish territory. This is the 27th occupying division building a Polish state on foreign lands. The Ukrainian insurgency led by Bulboa Borovec, then Klim Suvori did not build an independent Ukraine on Polish lands. As a member of the working Ukrainian-Polish group, which has been fully involved from the beginning to the end in the last session, I have not signed my signature under the draft statement. I feel that the application is, to put it mildly, not symmetrical. And if you call things your names, it's deeply anti-patriotic. And in the history of parliamentaryism and diplomacy, you will not meet a precedent for Parliament or the diplomatic body of a state to be self-signed in that it once killed someone on its own original land! And never in the history of parliamentaryism, diplomacy, in the history of civilization, the occupied people have apologized to the former invader. Moreover, the former invaders never forced the occupied people to apologize. For no one is the secret that the Poles did not side with the captive Ukrainian people in the 43rd year, they did not fight on the Wall with the German invaders at the time that more than a thousand UPA fought in Volina with the Germans, the Poles completely captured the organs of the administration of Erik Kocha and the authorities of the auxiliary police and the three Shufmat Shaft-Ballion. Here are two books in my hands that I give to all the people's deputies. Anyone who hasn't got them yet, come on. Please take a break. From these books you'll learn, these are crimes committed by Polish chauvinists on Volina. Tom the first is "The Plain Region", and the second volume of "The Volin Region" is now coming up, "The Poles on Volin," by Professor Sergey Chub. You learn from these documents that 100,000 victims of the Ukrainian side and 19.5,000 are victims of the Polish population, they're Soviet and German estimates. My proposal is to postpone the fall, hold parliamentary hearings, make a statement in all Polish-Ukrainian relations in 700 years, and please announce the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine from this rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u76	Please. We have an MFZ as a committee in foreign affairs, we have our own MFZ in Parliament. Please, Ivan Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u77	A statement by three district councils — Volinsky, Ternopilsky, Vinnický, which also confirms what is not possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u78	Please, please. You've already spoken, you've taken over the Rules. Prepare Soboljevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u79	Dear National Deputies! Can we approve of this claim? No, it's not. And that's why, because this statement completely distorts the truth about those distant and tragic events of the two peoples -- Ukrainian and Polish. First, the statement says that Poles were killed and expelled from their homes, and that is the tragedy of the Poles. What, then, is the tragedy of the Ukrainians following the statement? It follows from the statement that they were not killed or driven out of the congregation, but that the Ukrainian peace population suffered. Perhaps she suffered from undivided love with the Poles. But everyone with you knows that's not true because they killed Ukrainians and in Holland, killed Ukrainians and in Volina, and were driven out of the fold. Second, the statement states that the tragedy of the Polish population took place in Volina and Galicín, that is, only in the present Ukrainian territory. Why was it just a tragedy for the Polish people, for it was a tragedy and a tragedy for the Ukrainian people: Ukrainians were killed, their homes were burned, their homes were driven out of the fold, and their children were killed? It does not match the reality and claim of the authors that the tragedy unfolded on Volina and Galicina. What's Galicina doing here? Six months of talk about the Volin tragedy, a statement about the Volin tragedy, and Galicin were added. And the truth is that these events were happening in the present Volina and in the Netherlands, the present Poland, not in Volina, but only in Ukrainian. Third, the statement states that the Polish tragedy was caused by the armed formation of Ukrainians and that the suffering of the Ukrainian civilian population was caused by Polish military action. [[Look, there's Poles and there's the civilian population.]] Do you feel the difference? On the Ukrainian side, there were completely real structures, subjects of any law, and on the Polish side, Polish weapons. Shares are not subjects. Where did the Krayov Army go? Four. The text stated that the Polish doctrine was actually implemented that the originators of the tragedy were Ukrainians and the Poles killed Ukrainians as part of the so-called payoffs. That's not true! That is not true, and it has already been proved to all mankind. Hence, the text of this statement is not about reconciliation but about the outcome of World War II. It turns out that for us Ukrainians, World War II is still going on. And if we confirm with our decision this statement, we're going to have to look at the borders and we're going to have a lot of trouble. This statement contains nothing Christian. Here is a policy that can have very negative consequences for Ukraine and for stability in Europe. This statement will shoot us Ukrainians for decades. There's nothing in this statement to apologize for what we've been talking about, again, for six months. There's only a fair estimate here. So I propose, honourable national deputies, that we start this process by destroying the amendments that Leonid Makarovich spoke about and that I'm talking about. To write "Ukraine" in the first sentence, to throw out the second sentence either symmetrically write it, or to put it down in the fall. If we do that and give it to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u80	Microphone. Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u81	Dear friends. The faction of our Ukraine. I would like to express my position not only on the parties currently represented in Parliament. And the heated discussion that happened, I think, is somehow related to how the same positions were expressed in the sessions of district councils, the councils that took place in the territories of the 43rd and other years. I'm just going to quote the decision of the Volin District Council, which consists of almost all the factions that are represented in Parliament. The large-scale measures planned for July 11, 2003, in the Volin region to honor victims among the Polish population, with the participation of official delegations in Ukraine and Poland, are unacceptable. The representatives of both our Ukraine and the agrarians and the workers and the regions and other deputies who are sitting in the local parliament voted unanimously for this. Such decisions are made by three more district councils. Indeed, we representatives who sit directly in Parliament do not listen to them. And now essentially the statement itself and the procedure for its acceptance. In my view, it is unacceptable to accept a statement that should be accepted by two parliaments without final harmonization of texts, at least when accepted as a basis. Now there's an interesting thing going on. If we as parliamentarians vote in favour of a statement that will not eventually be voted on by the Polish side, it will in fact undermine our authority. That is why, by supporting those who speak to me about what is unacceptable, it is impossible not to submit the text of the statement exclusively to one side. That's why I'm going to read the first two paragraphs as a proposal, and I think they're going to be supported by the Supreme Council. The 60th anniversary of the tragedy of the Ukrainian and Polish populations in Volin and Galicina during the German occupation is leading to reflection on the past and future of the Polish-Ukrainian neighbourhood. The suffering of the Poles was accompanied by the suffering of the Ukrainian civilian population. These events were a tragedy for our peoples. I think it's a perfectly clear and balanced text that we can support. And second. There is, indeed, a proposal by the President's Administration, a parliament, how to act in this situation. So in this data, which is unfortunately not familiar with us, it is clear that the MCS recommends that we do not conduct the actions that are taking place. And the last. Now in the area where an actual apology will take place on behalf of the Ukrainian people, the area has been cleared. Ministry of Internal Affairs and Security officials, escorted by all suspects, do not miss anyone in this area. So my proposal is to support the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u82	Thank you. Microphone. I have an amendment. Dear National Deputies! They're all here. One minute, just write it down, let's be tolerant. With the motives of Matthew, please. Time's up, look. I'll put it to a vote, vote again, we'll talk again. No questions asked. With the motivations of Matthew. Calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! I had one minute saved by Julia Volodymyrna, and I want the head of the Ukrainian Republican Party to address the following. It's very easy to play on national feelings. It is far more difficult to live with these feelings. And I want to ask the radicals a little bit to turn it down. We need to understand that the author of today's riot in our Supreme Council, as well as the storm in the Polish Semium, as the author of this 60-year-old initiative, is neither in Polish territory nor in Ukrainian territory. And today the problem is whether Ukraine will take a European path, or whether it will be cut off from that European path. And so I would suggest that I understand what we're going to do today will largely decide that there will be 11 numbers on Volina. We are now responsible for what scenario of turbulence and indiscretion will take place in Ukraine. So I would like to understand what we have to say about living with our national feelings, not just knowing our history and giving it the right grades, but thinking about our day tomorrow. And it's tomorrow that I'm asking you not to radicalize the situation. I'm talking to you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and I think that's going to be a problem. Not a word too much, more faithfully, to leave this text with the number of words there are. But the word "galicina" should be removed and the word "Ukrainian people" and "Polish people" left behind. And this is a very subtle compromise that can remove the problem today and the tension, and 11 numbers, and open up the perspective of our European road. I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, let us vote on this proposal, to agree with the Polish Seima, which are our great requests. We understand that we are going to meet each other. And so when you stand dead in your position, there will never be compromise. And to show tolerance in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking now for the motives of those deputies who signed up in one minute. Kossov, Cherniak, Klukkowski and School And then we'll figure it out. Dear colleagues! You don't have to sign up, calm down. I'm telling you again, calm down, it's gonna be okay. Mikhail Kossov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u85	Michael Kossov, faction of our Ukraine, the Reform and Order Party. Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, Your Honourable Fellow Parliamentary! It seems to me that our Parliament is doing absolutely nothing for the legislative body. Parliaments in the world exist to adopt laws and regulations. We do historical evaluations. And if we're doing a historical evaluation of only 60-year-old events, I want to tell you that this year is also 355 years old since the Ukrainian people's national-liberal war against Poland began under the leadership of Bogdan Hmelnick. So why not add this date to the decision? Why not include other dates of armed conflict between Ukrainians and Poles? And that's why it's the only sentence that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u86	Microphone, please, Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u87	Honorable Chosen Ones of the Ukrainian People! Before making a decision, I ask you to consider three points. First moment. The main cause of the 1943 Volin tragedy was Poland’s territorial claim to Ukraine. Poland's invasion of the original Ukrainian lands of Volin. Poles were invaders. The other one. What is the main reason for the situation? I have a document of the Polish forces that destroyed the situation in Poland. They write that they were shaken by the message of a possible rehabilitation of the UPA. And they started this action to keep it from happening. This is actually an intervention in internal affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u88	Microphone. Klukkowski. Please, Klukkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u89	Yuri Klukkowski, People’s Movement of Ukraine Respectable Society! Today's possible statement by the Supreme Council has no right to be accepted in this form. This would mean that the Supreme Council, the Parliament of an independent Ukrainian state, accepts those accusations based on falsified data about our distant historical past. I find it difficult to speak because I have not understood these events today, and I have learned the truth about that time since I was a child. But I want to remind you of 14 years of age, 12 years old, when in 1991, Poland was one of the first to recognize Ukraine's independence. And that's why I'd really like the Ukrainian-Polish friendships to be maintained and developed. However, we will never attain such a relationship through national disgrace and humiliation. After all, we do not ask today to place a monument to the soldiers of Batiatus in Kiev. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u90	Yes, Andrew School. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u91	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! I think -- Andrey School, I think -- I don't think anyone here will be able to accuse me of being pro-Polish or anti-Ukrainian. I just want to say that I've always been opposed to the position of acceptance of a joint statement, because a joint statement can be accepted either as it is, or I can accept individual statements by two parliaments. And I think we have enough the dignity of the Ukrainian Parliament to accept a declaration. It is worthy of no dignity or honor to the Polish people, nor to the Polish state, nor to the Polish armed forces. I stood up for it all the time in the task force. And my signature, which is there, is that I support the idea of a joint statement. But what's written in the text, I'm stressing again, I don't need to be corrected. I didn't support the text because I was in the task force. And I stress this and I urge you that we can only accept this or that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u92	Thank you, microphone. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of this discussion, I offer such an offer. May I have your attention, please? There was an insistence to add the word "60 anniversary of the tragedy of Poland" and to add the word "and Ukrainian" on Volin. I ask you to calm down, not comment and listen carefully. "The Galician" word is deleted. This text will then be voted on. During the break, please. Ladies and gentlemen, calm down. I'm asking you like this. I have a 12-hour appointment with Marshall from the Polish fair. I'll have a talk. If the Polish side denies it, I'll put to the vote the project that is. If you don't make a decision, then let's make your application, we'll vote on other applications. But at the same time, I would like to say, honourable national MPs, that the Polish side of the discussion has declared its content closed. I'm asking you, give me a chance to say, well, it's like you're a raised person. And I was given information, and I just had a conversation with the Ambassador of the Republic of Poland in our country that the application could be authentic. And it can be put into effect at the same time as accepting an appropriate statement. So, ladies and gentlemen, after 12:30, I'm going to apply for a vote. The discussion was enough. I think everyone has to make their own choices. Question completed. Thank you for your attention. A draft decree on Ukrainian Government Day in October 2003 on compliance with and improvement of the legislative requirements for the development of sport, higher achievements and the preparation of national assembly teams for the elderly eighteen and twelve Paralympic games in 2004 is under consideration. Samolica Katerina Seminovna, please. We're all here now, distinguished national MPs!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! You all know the disgraceful results of our national team at past Olympics. Therefore, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considers it necessary for us to consider preparing our national team for the next Olympics a year before the Olympics. We have to listen to the government that's done both in the preparation of the material base of Ukraine and in the implementation of the legislation that's already been done in our country, and I think that's going to be an impetus for the revitalization of organizational work for the conduct of national collective Ukraine in the Olympics. I ask your support for the government's day for the next session in October-month of this year. Please, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u94	Yeah, what's your point? For this reason, please, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u95	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, preparing for the Olympic Games, let the government deal with this issue. It's all right for us, Supreme Council, to address this issue. We need to consider the issue of bread and price policy, which will be the situation in the fall. And I ask you, all national deputies, not to kill the head of the government or yourself. Let the Olympics be played by athletes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support our offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u98	There's a committee position, let the national MPs determine. Dear colleague Rudzikowski, but the bread should also be served by the government, not by Parliament. Parliament is not a fire team. And oil and gas must be used by the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u99	I am voting on the draft decree on Ukrainian Government Day in October 203 to meet the requirements of legislation and improve it to ensure the development of higher performances and the preparation of national assembly teams, the Summer XVIII Olympics and the XII Paralympic Games in 2004. There's a vote coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u100	Please support everyone. Dear colleagues, please support me. [[11:28:40]] For 350.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u101	Decision taken. A draft decree on the conduct of parliamentary hearings on the situation of young people in Ukraine is being announced for consideration on November 26, 2003. The reporter is the head of the committee of Samuelka Katherina Semenovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u102	Thank you. In 1992, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a declaration on the general principles of government youth policy in Ukraine. And the declaration provides for the holding of annual parliamentary hearings, the preparation of an annual report on this issue in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine. A committee proposal has already been sent to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And we're proposing at the next session on November 26 this year to consider the development of a healthy way of life for Ukrainian youth, the state of the problem, and the perspective. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u103	I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold parliamentary hearings on the situation of young people in Ukraine on 26 November 2003. This is document number 3704. There's a vote, then there's a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u104	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u105	There's a vote coming. [[11:30:08]] For 383 For Philenko's reasons, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u106	Thank you. Vladimir Filenko, faction of our Ukraine, the Reform and Order Party. Dear colleagues, I wanted to take the floor on this matter. Undoubtedly, the question that is proposed is of utmost importance. But young people like many other social issues cannot be resolved because we have many other important issues. If President Kuchma gives up the pipe, we'll have nothing to do with youth issues or issues of the elderly. This is not the most important question today. Today, there is a question of authority and of the self - control it does. This is what I wanted to say about the vote on the previous issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u107	Yes, thank you. Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko, please. We are discussing the sending of Ukrainian laws, the draft laws of Ukraine amending the Constitution of Ukraine. Please, Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko. [[Please take your seat, from the procedure then. Sit down!]] Please, Anatoly Sergiyovich. A procedural question is being considered. We're looking at a document, and he'll report to the committee head, he'll say. We're clear. Please! Please take your seats! Please! I'm just saying, let's not fight. We'll decide in 12 hours and then in the village. Please, have a seat. I'm asking the faction leaders to sit down. Please! Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko will tell you everything. I'm asking you to take your seats, all of you, once again! Yes, procedure, please. He's in charge. One minute. Well, I'm asking you to take your seats, don't look for any clues. I say again, don't disturb me!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u108	Dear Mr. Head! Again in today’s daytime order, the situation last Thursday was not rectified. [[I'm asking you to give me 15 seconds.]] Once again, it's about a bill. And the reporter, Matthew. Procedurally this cannot be accepted. That's the first one. I'm asking you, as speaker, as Head of the Supreme Council, to bring the agenda to the transcript now, as follows: "The procedure for sending draft laws registered in the Supreme Council to the Constitutional Court. And now, Mr. Head, to your knowledge and to the knowledge of those deputies, Gavrish, especially the Plush, who are sitting together, raise you up in the Secretariat, let the Legal Authority raise you up, Decree No. 1701-3 of 11 May 2000, signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Plush, it's called the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree on draft laws amending the Constitution, prepared for the outcome of the All-Ukrainian referendum on April 16. The Supreme Council instructs the Head of the Supreme Council to send to the Constitutional Court draft laws amending the Constitution after that pseudoferendum and so on. Introduced by legislators. So we no longer assigned this to the Head of the Supreme Council? We had breakfast. And Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please take a look at the item where your powers are, in particular Article 4.3.8 of the 25th paragraph: The Head of the Supreme Council carries out the once-in-a-time tasks of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All according to the Rules. We should know that voting and discussing the matter of the day, as it is in the daytime, means. I'm done, half sentence. This means that for many years to advance the personal authority of Medvedchuk under the roof of Kuchma. And you think about what you're going to do if you vote like it's spelled out? A different formulation should be added to the transcript, only as we did under the headship of the Ivy and only to vote as Matthewnko suggests. But let him spell it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u109	Yes, please, Anatoly Matvienko. One minute, it's coming from the faction, let's make a statement, there's going to be a discussion of the question, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u110	My fellow Members, I have no authority to report any bills or regulations other than the ruling that I am the author of and on which our committee has passed a decision is Decree No. 3688 on the procedure or order of referral to the Constitutional Court of Bills amending the Constitution. That is why this is the question, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and I want to put to the vote the order of departure or the procedure to the Constitutional Court for amending the Constitution. This bill is given to you, registered under number 3688. And I would like to ask the honourable national MPs to understand the logic of this project. What do we want? If we want the Constitutional Court to consider bills that are consistent with the 154th article, where there are at least one third of the deputies, the President has considered the Constitutional Court, and only after that, as article 159 of the Constitution says, can we consider them essentially, so we can and should take a ruling that excludes all other possible rulings. And so, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm asking you to put to the vote Project 3688, but in exchange, since you remember, I reported it a week ago, and we put a 15-day term there, but since we didn't make that decision, it's not appropriate to increase that term, so the operative part says, "In accordance with the 94th article," when we said that all the laws we make, the Head of the Supreme Council sends them immediately. So I proposed a 15-day deadline to replace this rule of the 94th article of the Constitution with an immediate one. We have never had a problem with the head of the Supreme Council for any head or left or right in accordance with this article of the bills or laws adopted. So this is the right standard. And we're proposing that we vote on this. If you'll excuse me, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'll announce it. "The Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Order of Referrals to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine for Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine. In accordance with articles 85 and 159 of the Constitution of Ukraine and taking into account the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 9 June 1998 in the case of the official interpretation of the provisions of part two of article 158 and article 159 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine shall decide: To establish that the bill submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with section 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine, is being sent immediately to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to reach a conclusion on the compatibility of its text with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine after the registration of the bill. And in this way, we're going to help everyone, and most of all, the President, who's worried about the tension in the Supreme Council, and he even wants to call off his bill, which would obviously be wrong. So let's solve this conflict, let's vote. Maybe that's right. Some think so, others think so. I propose, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put this decision to the vote and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u111	I see. Please have a seat. Out of procedure, please, Matthew. Sign up, let's talk for five minutes. And then let's figure it out. Matthew, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u112	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! Taking into account what is about to take place at the moment, a vote on an extremely acute political issue, a political issue, it is necessary, this question, without a doubt, today concerns our entire society, first of all, on behalf of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, to stress the need to comply with the requirements of article 84 of the Constitution of Ukraine for voting at meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which should be held by the National Deputy personally; and second, to ensure that the legal purity of the resolution of this political problem is truly ensured, I mean, that we do not then accuse each other of holding a silent vote through the Council. I mean, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I mean, I now propose to vote anonymously in favour of such a vote, and then, in the case of the support of the people's budgets, directly to hold an indistinguishable secret vote on the draft decree that is now being presented by the people's deputy, Matviyenko, in a nameless manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I'm just writing down all the suggestions right now, and then we'll write them down. Vladimir Yeshchenko, then Sergey Ivanov. Well, I'm looking who's writing it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u114	Fucking Communist faction. I support the proposal of Deputy Matthew and I ask that you put this, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u115	Sergey Ivanov. He's handing it over to you? Sergey Ivanov, please. Microphone, People's Landing faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, it feels like a hall, which brings about such a culminating situation, which will only bring us down today's vote. So I have one suggestion, let's move this fateful bill to the afternoon, vote on the laws that we have, and then we'll do the rest.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u117	Catherinechuk, please. Philenko gives the word of Catherinechuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich. First of all, I'd like you to announce a list of missing persons at today's session, and that would be printed. Secondly, our faction comes from the fact that in the formulation that is now in order of the day, we cannot vote because it is a gross violation of the Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court. This is the first time. Secondly, we will insist that Matthewnko be the first to vote and, in the event of his failure, we leave behind the right to do everything possible to ensure that there is no anti-constitutional action in Parliament today. The people of Ukraine have only two things: the Constitution and the Bible. Then I address the people of Ukraine. Dear voters, you're going to have one thing taken away from you today. And I think it's going to be the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u119	National Deputy Vladimir Spivacuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please, Singer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u120	Please pass the word to Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u121	Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I have a very interesting document in my hands called "Instrumentary, Implementation of the First Phase of Constitutional Reform." On the basis of this document, all the reasons why we are witnesses are being carried out. I quote a few of the instructions from this document. I'm asking Hubsky to listen, please. “If possible, block the registration of a bill drafted by the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council.” Let's move on. “In a situation where the voting process on the presidential bill is blocked, a clash between the opposition and the parliamentary majority will be triggered. As objects of physical interaction in the camp, the opposition should use highly expressed choleras that are prone to aggressive exposure. [[Cloud, Turkinov]] A television picture of opposition deputies resorting to physical violence must be present in all news releases." And so on. It's written by a well-known script and well-known specialists. It is further concluded that it is necessary to organize, on a day and after mass action, in support of the Presidential Project for the holding of the All-Ukrainian Constitutional Referendum. That's what we know, and how it works today. That's why I have an offer. I'm done, a few words. I want to go to most of them. Among you are many business leaders. We know you're being pressured, we know how to do it. Please, let's not vote by name. So everyone can do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u123	Dear National Deputies! As a result of the discussion, such proposals have been made, please be careful! So that we don't blame each other, but continue working. The first proposal was the National MP, the head of the Matthew Committee, and I'm going to make it as clear as I understand it -- inadvertently vote in favour of holding a secret vote on the Council system, right? Please, Valentin Grigorovich, give me this proposal. John's second offer is to move it to 16 hours. Catherinechuk’s third position is that if the decision made by the chairman of the committee is not taken, others will not be able to consider it. Did you say it right? Now let's define ourselves, just calmly, civilized. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, I repeat my proposal: firstly, I propose that we now hold a nameless vote using the "counsel" system, which means cards, to allow us to continue to hold a second secret indistinguishable vote on the proposed decision. So we need to have two now to vote in secret via the "Race" system.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u125	Does that fit the standard? Well, the motives have passed, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u126	This is reflected, indeed, in the Rules, in the requirements of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as the Supreme Council has the right to determine itself in the order of voting on a particular matter that it considers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u127	Yes, the Honourable People's Deputies! Is the "Race" system ready for this? One minute, we've already voted on our motives. Motive-headed, and the "Council" system ready or not? Tell me when it's ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you, I will vote against the offer of communists. Any question of constitutional reform to hide behind a secret ballot is the lie Kuchma is leading. I told you, any secret plot is the extension of Medvedchuk's power under the Cuchma roof. That is why we cannot do this, no secret ballots under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u129	Yes, please. The system's ready? I'm voting on the proposal of the committee head. Well, cancel the vote, I'm asking you to calm down. I'm putting to the vote Matthew Valentin Grigorovovich's proposal not to vote in favour of a closed vote. [[11:49:02]] For 203 The decision is not taken. May I have your attention, distinguished national deputies? No, we're here. All those who wanted to make it. I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, number 3688, on the procedure for sending bills to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to amend the Constitution of Ukraine. This is document number 3688. Please vote. [[11:49:50]] For 206 The decision is not taken. I'm putting to the vote the proposal of the national MP Ivanov, please calm down to come back to this matter at 4:00. It's 4:00 today. [[11:50:19.]] For 131 Dear National Deputies! Well, calm down! During the break. Well, calm down! Sit down! I'm asking the faction leaders at 12 o'clock, and the groups to meet me in my office. It's being announced. Calm down, come on! A draft Decision on Information for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the situation is being announced. [[What "no lady," well, we're working on what you are!]] Draft Decision on the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers on the situation in Ukraine’s agro-industrial complex and the threat of food security to the State in the face of a sharp rise in food prices. Tomich, please, Ivan Fedorovich. [[Take your seats, please!]] Is there a committee head? Please let the committee head through. Sit down! Today we have a record number of deputies: 444 registered.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u130	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. Yesterday, virtually all positions relating to the decision were agreed upon. I am grateful to the leaders of the factions who participated. And the committee's decision: it is proposed to support the draft decree number 3685-d. Only the issue of personnel change was not consistent.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u131	I'm voting on the basis of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine number 3685-d. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u132	Please be supportive. [[11:52:16]] For 243
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u133	For -243. Based on the base. No, we need to vote in general. Please, one minute. It's a microphone. For the faction, let's light it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u134	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, first of all, I would like to point out that we have heard information from the government on a very terrible issue. There is no evaluation of government activity here. There was an offer from the authors of the 3685 project to consider the work of the government unsatisfactory. And the second. Yesterday, after meeting with the protest participants, you read us a number of their suggestions. They're not taken into account, especially on the question of price moratoriums, government price regulation and so forth. So I'm going to offer them to supplement these proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u135	Let us now vote on every proposal that has been made. First sentence of the People's Deputy Lechchenka. I would like to state that the work of the government, the Cabinet of Ministers in this direction, is unsatisfactory. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please make up your mind. [[11:53:53]] For-189 The decision is not taken. The factions. Second offer. Obligation of the government to take steps to ensure that the prices for food and municipal services return to the level of January 1st this year. Do you understand the offer? I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Any suggestions? [[11:54:32]] For 343 Decision taken. Another offer. Please listen carefully, for we accept correction from the voice so that there will be no murmuring. Establish a moratorium on rising prices for food products, necessities, housing and utilities to achieve minimum wage, pensions, scholarships, and other social assistance for the minimum wage. Puts the vote to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:55:16]] For 317 Decision taken. All of it. Your suggestions are all. Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! Not all at once. Rudzkowski, please. Take your seats. Dear National Deputies! I'm offering now that wasn't submitted yesterday, I won't take any more. If the people’s deputies, including Mikola Rudzikowski, were not included in the proposal he made yesterday, we would be put to the vote, no other proposals would be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u136	Please give the word to Joseph to Winn. Our proposal was made yesterday, and he's going to announce it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u137	We've practically all taken into account the proposals, the distinguished national MPs. Please, Winsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u138	Wynski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we have just voted on two fundamental proposals from our project, which the Socialists made the last time. And then there's another item that's not counted. The point is this. For what has happened in the State, for robbing people, there must be a personal responsibility. In our government, Minister Horoshkowski is responsible for the price block, and Minister Ribuk is responsible for the situation in the APC. That's why we've asked questions about inviting the President and the Prime Minister to send these two government officials out as a result of their resignation. And I'm asking you to vote on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u139	The point is that yesterday, during a meeting with protest participants, Ambassador Alexander Alexander Moroz suggested that the amendment be withdrawn so that the document would be real. We made a deal yesterday. I'll insist, I'll put your proposal to the vote. I am proposing to the People’s Deputy of Viennese, which was included in the draft decree prepared by representatives of the Socialist faction, for a vote. I'd like to make a statement. Only the written amendments that were will be voted on. Please do not turn to others. [[11:57:21]] For-183 The decision is not taken. Dear National Deputies! I'm telling you again, yesterday, who filed the letter of completion was unaccounted for. For Vasil Gabrieluk, I say, we just voted that proposal, and she didn't get any support. They've already voted with motive. Alexander Tchachenko. I'm speaking to you again in Ukrainian for the National MP, the First Deputy, I'm sorry, Head of the Committee on Rules of Procedure. Written amendments shall be voted upon. You haven't made any amendments. Your amendments will not be voted on at this time. Please have a seat. Please read the Rules, it will be all behind you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u140	Tuck, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! For the third day, we have been discussing the food supply of Ukraine. At the third meeting, neither the Cabinet of Ministers nor the Agrarian Committee has informed the National Deputies what the grain balance will be this year in Ukraine, how much do we have of the transitional grain, how much grain will be collected this year, and how much will we need to carry? We have 48 million people. And what we're voting for today, we're voting for without knowing what. And that proposal they made, they're certainly right, there's no question. But the chairman of the committee, Tomic, should inform. If not the Deputy Prime Minister, neither the Minister could speak openly to Parliament nor to the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u141	Dear National Deputies! I want to tell you again, we've been looking at these documents, we've had a number of projects. We will not be able to make such appropriate decisions in a voice right now. There was an offer -- all those who wanted to take care of the village's problems, give appropriate comments and warnings. I would ask that the national deputies observe this. I am voting on the draft ruling as a whole as a decision taking into account the proposals that we have voted on, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u142	The committee's asking for support. [[12:00:02]] For 197
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u143	For 197, no decision is taken. There's a break to 12 o'clock, the question's off. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes. The leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions are requested to meet in the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We will continue our work. What do we vote on? Please invite the national deputies, especially the faction leaders, to the session hall. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. We will continue our work. Because we started to see a certain outflow of national deputies from the session room, now it's 434, and at the beginning it was 444 today. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to inform you about the outcome of the meeting that took place today, but just during the break, it's taken some time, and I apologize for that. We agreed on it this way. Regarding the draft regulation on the situation in the food market and the APC. Now that we've voted on the agrarian committee to work out a new draft decision on this basis. Maybe where it is, to be edited, to take into account the decisions that we already made yesterday, and at 16 o'clock we should vote on the document. Is there no objection? We didn't take it as a whole, we voted as a basis, we didn't take it as a whole. That is why we need to vote as a whole as a document. Regarding the Ukrainian-Polish parliamentary statement in connection with the 60th anniversary of the Volin tragedy. I made a phone call to Marshal Seima, Mr. Borowski. I told you about the situation, the suggestions that were made. The position of the Polish side. The document was drafted as a joint statement. The text was harmonized. The Polish side discussed the document and discussed the protection. So she's going to accept the text without any change. I suggested the minimal changes that were being made. What I was told is that on the Polish side there are far more proposals for change, including those that are totally unacceptable to the Ukrainian side. The Polish side thinks that this is the compromise that we need to stand on. We just made a deal with the faction leaders. I'm asking for your support. During the lunch break, I will make another phone call with Marshal Seima. It suggests adding the word "Ukrainian" at the beginning of the statement, "Polish and Ukrainian populations." I'm asking you to calm down, not show activity. If the proposal isn't accepted, then we're going to figure out, I'm going to invite the heads of MPs and factions at 3:30 to meet me in my office, how we're going to proceed. With regard to the procedure for sending draft laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine. The proposal was to repeat the procedure that we repeated without result. If not, we will continue to work on the schedule of meetings. And then with faction leaders we're going to redefine, we have to have a positive decision. But given the enormous amount of work, given that we're practically going to be doing the math tomorrow, I would ask you, honourable national deputies, that today, considering the periods that we've had to take into account, well listen, no, no, no, no, that we continue our work today, let's say by 7:30 and make those decisions even though we've discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, no! Then do not tell us how we care for the problems of the Ukrainian people. I'm voting on the proposal to continue working until 7:30 to make the necessary decisions. Please be supportive. [[13:16:04]] For 135 On the board, please explain, I'll just read it. [[Applause]] I'll read: "Our Ukraine" - 1; [[People's Honourable Deputies! Please publish in the Voice of Ukraine.]] Communists - 0; "Ukrainian regions" - 42 "for"; Party of industrialists, entrepreneurs, "Urrigible Ukraine": - workers 4; SDPU(o) - 24; "Democratic Initiatives" - 3; C.O.R. -0; "European Choice" - 14; People's Landing - 8; Yulia Tymoshenko 0; The agrarian party is 13; NDP - 13; People's Choice - 8; non-fractional -5. Valentin Grigorovich Matviev, please announce your proposal once again so that the MPs can decide on the voting procedure. The question of the referral of draft laws amending the Constitution to the Constitutional Court is under consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to remind you of the proposal that I have made before: firstly, I would like to ask you now in a nameless, inadvertently, to vote in secret for the next vote on the draft decision to refer drafts to the Constitution, draft laws to amend the Constitution to be carried out in the same regime. If a positive decision is made, i.e. supported by the majority of the people's deputies, then a closed ballot through the Council system on the adoption of the proposed decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u146	Is the offer understood? I am putting to the vote the first question: to take a decision, not by name, but to make the same vote in favour of draft regulation 3688. [[13:18:46]] For 221 Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. That's enough! Dear colleagues, well, it didn't work out. All of it! Well, the decision didn't go away, what do you want from me? You don't have to! Dear National Deputies! Now I'm putting it to a vote. Wait a minute! The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at number 3688 is already open because you have not accepted it. I'm asking you to calm down, ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues, if you had decided to continue for an hour and a half, we would have had a debate. Well, yeah, well. Dear National Deputies! I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling 3688 on the procedure for sending bills to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to amend the Constitution of Ukraine. This is a project reported by Anatoly Matvienko. Well, how secret? We didn't make a decision, in secret. It's not "secretly" going. Change the vote. What Does It Require of Me? Alexander Frost, out of procedure. Well, I'm asking you not to yell. Dear colleagues, we had to vote first in favour of continuing our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council. I refer once again to all those who are involved in this difficult process. We have to resolve these issues here, we deputies. Today, a collection of signatures is organized, you know, to vote on the Presidential draft and send it to the Assembly of Signatures. The legislative body can't run from two centers. We must guide ourselves. And today it's a condition like this. If we support the secret voting procedure, then we're taking down the problem. And I'm asking you again. At the request of the deputies, the Head has the right to do so. Put once again to the vote the procedure of secret balloting, and resolve the issue definitively, and not force it, not to create a condition for someone to run the Supreme Council beyond the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u148	Valerius Pavlovich Desert of the majority. Of the four factions Alexander Frost spoke. Please. But now let me put all the decisions that we have to vote in turn to make it democratic.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u149	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I have a proposal that we should never make a decision for the second time and stick to it: we voted, we voted, we voted, we made a decision. It is positive or not positive. But I want to talk about the next thing. That when all the representatives of the majority met in the Supreme Council, we agreed, every time we make a concession, we re-vote for the secret vote. And we're re-voting, and what we've done with the proposal of Matthew. They didn't make it again. So we made the arrangements, we agreed, let's move forward, I have this proposal. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would ask you to put our proposals to a clear vote and determine whether to vote in favour or against. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u150	Dear people's deputies, well, we've already discussed the procedure, so let's be clear. Dear people's deputies, let's do this. I'm proposing a decision that will make everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Let's vote in this order right now. Please pay attention, just don't get excited, don't shout, you'll always be able to do it. First. We are voting on the proposal of the chairman of the Regulatory Committee. The other one. We are voting on the draft ruling under any conditions proposed by the Head of the Committee for State Buildings, Anatoly Matvienko. Third. We are voting for the referral to the Constitutional Court of the MP's bill. Four. We are voting for referral to the Constitutional Court of the Presidential Bill. If we do not make decisions, we will consult again. Well, you'll always get there, dear fellows, well, you'll always get there, let's go around the circle, well, you're happy with God. I'm asking you, let's go around the circle. I put to the vote, please note, the proposal by the chairman of the Committee on Regulatory Affairs, Valentin Matthews, to vote silently in favour of holding closed ballots with cards. [[13:24:30.]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the decision is not made. You see, I'm putting it all democratically. I am voting on the draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine number 3688 on the procedure for sending bills to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine amending the Constitution of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote. A Decision to Vote [[13:25:09]] For 207 The decision is not taken. Is there an emergency? What break? I am voting on the motion to refer the bill to the Constitutional Court. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! There's a vote of direction. Dear National Deputies! Please take your seats. Let's work it out this way. Dear National Deputies! Please, calm down. Not a break, we're still working. At 2 p.m., the heads of MPs and factions. Calm down, please. At 4 p.m., the leaders of MP groups and factions gather to discuss the situation. Let's talk about this at 4:00. Let us consider. Let's define democratically. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax is being announced for consideration. [[on improving the VAT compensation mechanism]] Take your seats. Please take your seats. Dear National Deputies! The proposal, now we vote and that's it. Where's the Homutinian? Please come to the rostrum. The committee's decision and we'll vote, let's put it to a vote. Obviously, the procedure against this, let's determine by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, Bill 1277-2 on the settlement of value added tax is introduced for your consideration. We discussed this bill. Both the committee and the Supreme Council. The only thing I can say is that the bill is designed to resolve issues related to the reimbursement of this tax. Because we have reduced the tax rate, but we have not resolved the issue with that enormous debt and with future reparation. In fact, it is proposed that the value added tax be automatically reimbursed. The Committee decided to support the bill in its first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u152	Now we're going to define by vote. I'm putting him to a vote on acceptance as a basis. [[B in m in s a l in]] Identify yourself. Project 1277-2 is being voted on as a basis. The result will be now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u153	Vote. [[13:29:01]] For 169 The decision is not taken. Calm down, the law is overruled. All of it. Let's move on. Let's define by vote. Let's move on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please calm down. Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? I voted in secret five times, broke the Rules, and you encouraged me to do so. Let's democratically make sure I'm not to blame, too. All of this, please, proposal 1277-3 is a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the payment of VAT. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. Please identify yourself. [[13:30:11]] For 168 Everybody calm down? The decision is not taken. That's it, thank you. Assadchev, please. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I have a great request for you. Under the Constitution, you must understand what opposition requires. We demand only one thing: respect for the Constitution, nothing more. We're against sending one MP or one president. And you're saying most of the time that we're going to be solely addressing this issue against the Constitution. So you're saying you're going to violate the Constitution. You can't do such things, my friends! The world is looking at us. Mikolo Janovich, Your Honor, we are prepared to sit down with you and solve the VAT problem, the cancellation of the benefits, the restructuring. But you can't hang 10 billion debt on the Ukrainian people. What are you doing, my friends? That's why I'm calling. We agreed yesterday that if this bill is not being passed, it is no longer being passed. Why did we bring him out again today? So please, Vladimir Mikhailovich, it's up to you. Follow the Constitution, obey the laws! We do live in any small-scale legal state or we try to live in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, may I speak frankly? Listen. You probably feel the pressure I'm under. And if I'm asking for a vote and I'm asking you to redefine the hall, there's obviously a request from the government, when there's a request for the opposition to vote three times in secret, I'll bet. You don't make any remarks to me then. Allow me to pursue a balanced policy in the interests of the entire Parliament. And constantly do not prove me wrong. Azarov Mikola Janović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to think about what I'm about to say. First. Don't say no like that, from the jump, from the rush, think about it. First of all, is there a VAT problem? Yes. Did they create it? I'll tell you who. It was not created by Azarov. It was established by Parliament when a decision was made in 1999 to cancel all taxes and taxes. We have written off 18 billion bracelets, including 8 and a half billion debt to the State under VAT, and the State has to return. The balance was broken. Here's the reason. A VAT return problem was therefore created. [[Don't break up, please!]] The Government has tried to solve it in a variety of ways. And now it proposes to compromise the adoption of the law on first reading, the adoption of the concept on first reading. What does the concept mean? First: conduct VAT inventory. Second: to take this inventory into account as a State debt to the taxpayer. Third: to restructure this debt in view of government securities, i.e. every taxpayer to whom the State owes VAT will receive a state-owned paper with the obligation of the State to pay it within 3 or 5 years, we must agree with you. Expenses on repayment are charged to the State budget. Fourth. In order to prevent VAT-recovery fraud, introduce automatic VAT compensation. After 30 days, the treasury pays off without the tax service being withdrawn, and the VAT balance is debited. This process can only be suspended by a decision of the court. Who can object to such a transparent and clear procedure? Now, if there is any objection, Valery Assadchev, we have two months with you before we go on second reading in September, and we will adopt this law in order to impose these expenses in 2004 and enter in 2004 with the problem of VAT return solved. Second bill. You're going on vacation. We need to run a budget. If you and I do not decide on the adoption of the value added tax law that Homutinnik has reported, we will not be able to construct a balanced budget. I'm straight and I'm honest. It is therefore necessary to rise above political passions now and adopt the bill. The government's asking you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u157	Dear National MPs, the situation of these two VAT bills, one minute, calm down, we'll talk to the leaders of the MP groups and factions, because we're not going to do anything right now, during the break. A draft Law is being announced for consideration. I'd like to ask then, Mikola Janović, if possible, at 14 o'clock to meet us, to make a position, to review the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code and some other laws. Please, Petr Alekseiovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's at least work on our schedule for an hour. No, right? How about that? I'm putting a motion on the vote to continue the evening session for an hour. Well, no, no. Please vote. [[13:36:40]] For-146 I am truly grateful for your support. For -146. Please, Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko. Please, very briefly. May I have your attention, please? Please calm down. Everything's gonna be fair and orderly, let's take it easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u158	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. After the adoption of the amendments to the Budget Code in the first reading, more than 250 amendments were made to the bill, with only a fifth of them referring to the articles discussed in the first reading, the remaining proposals before the introduction of the new articles into the Codex budget. In line with the arrangement that was in place to encourage changes to the Budget Code at this session, it is not complicated by conflicting proposals that may cause blockage, acceptance of it in the second reading. This bill was intended to address urgent problems that would have a direct impact on the implementation of local budgets in the current year and on the budgetary process for the 2004 budget. Addressing problems that are systemic and balanced that require sufficient time, the Budget Committee proposes to move to autumn, since three drafts of comprehensive amendments to the Budget Code are now registered in the Supreme Council: one bill of the new edition of the Budget Code and two: a government and a working group of the Budget Committee. All three should be considered at the beginning of the next session. In this bill, first of all, we propose that we cancel the limit that allows us to review local budgets only if the income portion of the respective local budget fund is exceeded by more than 15 percent, based on the implementation of three blocks. This effectively deprives the subject of local self - government of the right to decide his own fate, to exercise his own authority. The other one. These changes greatly improve the implementation of local budgets, as they provide additional incentives for an operational solution to socially important issues at the local level. We also propose to define and approve the minimum wage and minimum wage levels directly in the State Budget Act for the year in order to make it impossible in the future for this year, when we in the fire order have to seek additional resources to save local budgets and not create distasteful debt on a minimum wage. Yesterday, dear colleagues, you were given a comparative table with an analysis of the amendments that came to the budget committee. The vast majority of these articles are included. There are also informational proposals that have affected the budgeting of the government in agreement with the government, all proposals, the draft regulation that is now before you: (a) agreed with the government and (b) unanimously supported by the budgetary committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u159	Dear National Deputies! One minute, it'll be off-limits. Dear National Deputies! I would ask everyone to understand the logic of the changes that are being made. It's all necessary. In the fall, we're going to look at the substance of the case -- the new law, the new budget code. If we go to all the amendments now, we won't make any decisions. Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u160	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I want to address all of you on behalf of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. I just want to convey to you the requests of the city heads who were recently on the Supreme Council and the heads of local self-government. We realize that the proposals offered are far from what we want. But we realize that this is at least the minimum that solves the problem of creating a 2004 budget by protecting local self - government. So I ask the committee to support at least this small step. Indeed, in September to redraft and adopt the new budget code, and to make a real holiday for local self - government. I am addressing you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and to you, Peter Alexiyovich, ask the question for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u161	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. I confirm, at the last meeting with members of the associations of cities, heads of village councils, regional representatives, everyone is speaking unanimously, first of all, I'm paying attention to major MPs, that these changes are the most necessary in the current session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u162	Let's do the repairs now. Everyone, please take your seats. We will determine who will be corrected. Kirilenko Viacheslav, fourth amendment. Is Viacheslav insisting? Where's Viacheslav? None. Let's move on. National deputy Stoyan, 14th Amendment. Are you insisting on her? No, there isn't. Let's move on. Jaroslav Suhi - Amendment 16, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear Peter Alexiovich, and I am amended 16 and 19. I'm not going to insist on them if you don't explain to the stenographer that this amendment doesn't remove responsibility from the government in accordance with the Pay for Work Act to make minimum wage up to budget adoption, so that we don't get into another disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u164	Thank you, Mr. Jaroslav, for not insisting on a constructive position. The proposed amendments to the Budget Code provide for minimum wage to be an integral part of the Ukrainian State Budget Act and the Supreme Council to be able to determine the appropriateness of its standard of living.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u165	Thank you. Amendment 26 - Taras Cnerville Is she insisting on it? Don't you insist? Let's move on. Amendment 31 - Tereshuk Sergei Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Let's move on. Amendment 40. Taras Blackwall insists? Yes, accounted for, accounted for. Amendment 51 - Seminucle Valentina Petrovna, do you insist? Microphone, please. And now 52 is your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u166	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, reverend Peter Alexiovich! Even before I began my consideration of the matter, I approached Peter Alexiyovich and said that the Special Supervisory Commission had prepared a number of comments to the Budget Code so that the cost of privatization, from the rent of state property, would come to the budget. Peter Alexiyovich explained that these questions would be considered in September and considered. In view of the urgency that has just been mentioned by my colleague, I agree that I will not insist on my suggestions, and I will say that in September all these comments will be taken into account. Because the cost of privatization should go directly to the budget. And if you have to upgrade some enterprises, they have to go through the expense section, and the Accounting Chamber has to control everything. Here's the whole package of documents I've been offering, taking into account the controls, the Audit Chamber and the Special Control Board. I would very much like this to be taken into account. And if Peter Alexiyovich gives me his word, not just to me, but to the entire Special Monitoring Commission, which will consider this issue in September, then I will not insist on my proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u167	Moreover, I would like to confirm that there is a decision by the Committee on Budget Affairs to support the position of colleague Semenyuk, because all costs, including privatisation costs, this position of principle of the Budget Committee, should be included in the State budget, should be distributed transparently and monitored by the relevant bodies. There is a committee decision to support your position, it will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u168	Thank you, thank you again. Fomenco, 59 repairs. Catherine Fomenko, do you insist? I can't see. No, it doesn't. Gregory Bondarenko, 60th Amendment. No, it's not. 61, Committee on Motherhood, Health. Polczyk Mikola Efremovich, microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u169	I'd like to say that. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I would like to say that this does not take into account our proposals, such as hospital associations, as self - budget managers. Nor do we have a complete budget relationship between the area, the village, and the area. I don't see it. And I don't see a number of the suggestions I've been making from this rostrum. So I think this needs to be further worked out. And in this kind of way, I can't support the Committee's Budget Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remember, and let me remind you that the written amendments should be from the national MPs. If your 61st amendment, you insist on voting, we'll put it to a vote. I'll bet the vote on Amendment 61, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u171	I'd like to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u172	There's no need to comment. Let the hall determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u173	We have no funding for health care facilities in the district budget today. For these reasons, we did not support this amendment. [[13:47:54]] Z-87 Correction not accepted. 65, Gabrieluk, would you please insist? No, it's not. Let's move on. Social Policy Committee. Amendment 66, 67. Are you insisting? No, I can't see. 68. Ludmila's wife. No, it's not. Yes, noshenko - 69 - are you insisting? Ladies and gentlemen, who insists on amendments that have not been taken into account but will be included in the new budget code? Please, Kirilenko Viacheslav. Honey? Now. Just a minute. Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u174	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, I insist on voting an amendment that prevents the use of non-target insurance funds. It's about wanting the government to put the funds of the Pension Fund and the three social insurance funds into the budget and use the assets that these funds are operating, obviously in some untargeted way. I understand the lack of funds that the government is facing, but I think that the practice of potentially purposeless use of insurance can lead to social tension, as well as debt on hospital payments, regressions, pensions and so forth. I know I'm not alone in this line of questioning. So I've made an editorial that predicts that these funds are accumulating to a special state budget fund, that's a government proposal, that we're going to meet here, but it's specifically pointed out that these funds are only used for purpose and removal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u175	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, I would like to give you the answer to my colleague Kirilenko, with the assurance that in the comparative table that was given to you yesterday, this question was a matter of concern to many factions as to the fate of the Pension Fund and the share of the social trust funds. They are not included in the State Budget and remain the old order of use of these funds for the very reason that no changes have been found in the agreed edition. It is therefore agreed that the budget committee and the Supreme Council will return to the issue of the Pension Fund and other targeted social funds in the autumn with this logic, which we include in the Social Fund with the guarantee of the absence or the possibility of non-target use of the funds referred to by counterpart Kirilenko. Now this is not the norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u177	Thank you. Do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u178	No, we counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u179	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u180	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, Petr Aleksevic, answered that question now, and I am taking down my topic.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u181	Yes, please, whose amendments have not been taken into account? Suskevich, please. Repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u182	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. I'm out of procedure after all. Peter Alexiyovich, three bills submitted to the budget code on the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities, are not being considered. I ask you, this bill of government, my bill and the bill of chairman of the committee of Cybenka, I ask you to answer how it will be considered. This is an urgent problem supported by the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u183	Thank you. Peter Alexiyovich, when you have completed your consideration of the matter, please come in and give the answer. Corrections are being discussed. What is the correction? Please, Hubsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u184	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Sadly, my amendment was not even included in the second reading text. Sadly, though, she was officially submitted to the committee. It is also proposed that, first, paragraphs 3 and 4 of part 1 of article 88 of the Budget Code be deleted. Second, in article 89, part 1, paragraph 3, of the Budget Code, after the words “stomatological clinics”, add the words “extreme hospitals, medical clinics, field and obstetric and field centres, including those located in the territory of villages, villages, cities of regional importance, the area concerned”. Three. Paragraph 5 of Part 1 of article 89 reads as follows: "5. Culture and art: (a) national cultural and educational and theatre programs, theatres, libraries and museums, exhibitions, palaces, cultural houses, schools of aesthetic education; (b) rural, rural and urban palaces of culture, clubs, libraries." This amendment applies to the transfer of rural medicine financing from rural finance to the district budget, which does not exist. Request: Support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u185	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u186	Dear Bogdan Volodymyrovich, you are absolutely right that this amendment came to the Budget Committee, unfortunately it came after the deadline for the adoption of the amendments. But the content of this amendment is completely consistent with the amendment made by the Health Committee: the transfer from the village budget to the district line. This amendment was made in the hall. She voted and won 87 votes. The content of this amendment is identical: the level of funding of local budgets. She was not supported by the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u187	Once again, I am putting to the vote the amendments that have just been made by the People’s Deputy of Hubsky. I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u188	The committee does not support this, as it actually eliminates the level of funding for district budgets. [[13:53:55]] For 196
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u189	For - 190. Decision taken. Please, Bezpali. It's your repair.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u190	Boris Bespalyus, the city of Kiev. In this case, I wanted to continue what Anatoly Sergeiovich Matviyenko of the Committee on Local Self-Government and State Building said. It's about the 76th amendment. Actually, the committee's resolution is rejected because it's not a proposal for drafting a bill, it's unconvincing. We have to make decisions essentially, not reject them for formal reasons. In particular, we propose, for example, 76 amendments, that budget allocations for social programs financed from local budgets are determined by local council decisions, with only those. which have been defined, approved state programmes. So I don't understand why this amendment, like the following ones, was rejected. I'm going to ask the committee to take a look at them, to answer essentially, not just rejected, because it's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u191	Dear Mr. Boris, this amendment does not refer to articles that were adopted in the first reading. According to the content, the budget committee shares the ideology with which you go out. And we agreed that if we were to consider a new edition of the Budget Code or amend all the articles of the Budget Code, this amendment to the Committee on Local Self-Government would be taken into account. We ask you not to burden the bill with positions that cause denial, either by factions or by the government. The government had a separate position on this amendment. Therefore, we can assure you that the proposals made at the Bespalym Hall, Hubsky, will be considered, and the Budget Committee will support them, to be considered by the Supreme Council of the Autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u192	Who still insists on their amendments? Honourable People's Deputies, Deputy Hara introduced a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of certain provisions of the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine and certain other legislative acts. In this regard, I am voting on the proposal. Are you filming? Please, Hara is a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, given what has been stated before the changes to our proposals, since all the suggestions of our Committee and my personal decisions have been adopted, I ask that this motion be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u194	Thank you. But you can see that I did democratically. I am voting on the second reading of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code and some other laws. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u195	Please be supportive. Dear colleagues, I would like to reiterate my call to all the regions to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u196	I ask you to vote, honourable national MPs. [[13:57:13]] For 244 I'm voting on the adoption of the draft law as a whole as a law. This is 2139-d. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u197	Please be supportive. Mikolo Fedorovich, you'll be on second reading in the village. Don't hesitate to put local budgets on our own today because of medicine. Let Us Responsibilities [[13:57:39]] For 307
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u198	The law is passed. Hennady Vasiliev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u199	Dear colleagues! This codex contains many fitting amendments both by Valentina Seminyuk and by Valérie Konovaluk, Master. A lot of my remarks. I propose, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to record in record: "In September, the Committee submits the Budget Code in a new edition, taking into account these amendments."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u200	I don't think there's any objection, Mr. People's Deputies? Let's write that down. A draft Law on Cooperation is being announced for consideration. I'm asking you to extend your job for 15 minutes. I have that right. At least that way I'll stimulate our work. Please, Budjigan Philip Philipovich. Let's fix this right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u201	Deputies! Our committee considered this bill in a second reading, considered all 177 proposals and observations that came from the national MPs, 105 of them included, and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill in the second reading and in general. I'd like to ask you to put it to a vote. I know there are some deputies. We have a chance. Insomnia. We have the opportunity to work later.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u202	Who insists on their amendments that have not been taken into account? Unburned, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u203	Boris Bespaly, "Our Ukraine" Ukrainian People's Party. I'd like to draw your attention, dear colleagues, to the 55th amendment. I think that it was not taken into account simply by misunderstanding, since it is proposed that the cooperative’s statute should include a full list of all its members. You realize that cooperatives can be multi-thousand, each new member, or a person is either out of a cooperative or part of a cooperative. This must be a re-registration of the statute. So I think there's already one example that shows that it was worth taking the word and improving the law even now. I'm asking the committee to agree. And if the committee doesn't agree, then I ask you to support the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u204	Would you please take the seat of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u205	I think it's worth agreeing to. And on condition that the Bespallian will not say anything else.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u206	No objections? This position was agreed upon. What else do you have? Please, Bezpali.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u207	Dear colleagues! I am grateful to the committee for its support and, in general, for its cooperation, because I have literally had about a hundred proposals here. Some are not included, as we now see, because of misunderstandings. 97 amendments here are, I'd like to explain why, if it's not accepted by the committee. The committee suggests that the assets of a cooperative may consist of funds derived from economic and other activities. Still, when we talk about money, what other activity would we like to have? It must be in the law. And with that, it says, "Don't take the word too much once, 105th amendment." This is a special cooperative fund. And it's created on the basis of targeted contributions from members of the cooperative. And there are no questions. Other arrivals not prohibited by law. But the law never prohibits cooperatives from coming anywhere. So this formula is invalid. In my opinion, the correct formula is "other comings provided for by law." The law can provide for cooperatives and special funds a very wide range of incomes, but it is defined. And this, the all-consuming article allows, almost by robbing, to fill in the circulation costs. That's not right.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u208	Please, Philip Philipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u209	I think most of us here, MPs, are out of cooperatives and they know what other forms and other approaches are. In principle, agree with this position, what he says, within the framework of existing legislation, let it be, but on condition.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u210	That's how you agreed, committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u211	Yeah, we're good.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u212	What other adjustments are you making? What's that? Insomnia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u213	I'm just grateful to the committee for their cooperation. But there's another technical one here, and I think they're wrong. That's 159th. It says, "In the event of a person being involved for a specified term or at the time of a certain work, an agreement may be made between a cooperative organization and a hired employee in the form of a contract." I don't think a contract can be entered into in the case of hire, and it has to be made, because an alternative is either a black box, which is a misunderstanding, or an oral arrangement. So I think it's not a trifle, although you're only going to replace one word, but it's a serious matter. A treaty cannot be concluded, but it must be made mandatory. Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u214	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u215	You know, practice shows that it is not necessary to make a contract with an employee, not necessarily. There are various forms of help. It's like an operational form of organization, agree with me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u216	I'm voting on the proposal of 159 national MP Bespalogo. [[14:03:31]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. Please, Bezpali.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u217	This is a serious observation. 174th Amendment. The committee proposes to grant this law status higher than other laws of Ukraine. I mean, it's a direct status that follows the Constitution. And not even, even more appropriate, a higher Constitution, because the Constitution is also the Law of Ukraine. In particular, the second paragraph of the final regulations states that before legislation is brought into conformity with the Ukrainian Cooperation Act, Ukraine's laws and other legal acts are applied in a part that does not conflict with this law. First of all, it doesn't make any sense at all, because it doesn't conflict with us, it just sets up a Constitutional Court. Otherwise, we're going to go in an intuitive way, we don't know what we're going to do. And secondly, why should this law be older, let's say, for the Civil Code, for example, for the Criminal Code. So I think this rule needs to be removed as completely invalid and incorrect.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u218	Yes, thank you. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u219	In principle, there is an offer to agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u220	Agree. The committee doesn't object.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u221	And to vote in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u222	No objection, fellow members of the nationals?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u223	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u224	I'm voting on the adoption of the draft law on co-operation in second reading and generally as a law. This is document number 1141. Please vote. [[14:05:23]] For 371 The law is passed. A draft law amending the Act on External Economic Activities of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[concerning export-import licensing]] Komarovsky Vladimir Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u225	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u226	Let's do some repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u227	Dear colleagues, this refers to the substance of the law before making changes to the article of only 16, which is called "Licensing, quotas for external economic operations." Nine amendments were made, including amendments to the National Bank. Five are counted, four are not counted. The National Bank's amendments are taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u228	Who insists on repairs? What's the committee's offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u229	The committee's proposal is to accept it in second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u230	I'm voting on the second reading and, as a whole, the bill amending the Ukrainian Foreign Economic Act. [[concerning export-import licensing]] This is document number 2417. Please vote. [[14:06:37]] For 380 The law is passed. A draft law amending the Land Rental Act is being announced for consideration. [[new editor]] Lechenko Vladimir Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u231	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Following the adoption of the bill, 106 comments and suggestions from Ukrainian national deputies were received in the first reading to the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. They are all carefully considered, and the committee's decision is as follows: 62 comments and suggestions are taken into account, 10 in part, 4 in editorial terms, and 30 are rejected. The committee's proposal to adopt a draft in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u232	Who insists on amendments that are out of the question? None. Oh, there is. Unburned, please. Boris Bezlogo's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u233	Thank you. Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. I wanted to pay attention to the 9th amendment that grants landowners the right to own and use land. But the right of ownership is the exclusive right of the owner, and the renter actually has the right of use, he uses the land, and even the decisions give the land for rent rights. And land management, for example, alienating it, selling it, and owning it, is an inalienable right only to the owner. We want to give the tenants the right to own them, to make them owners, to make rent without a ransom, and so on. Well, actually, to distribute the land just like that, to steal the land. I mean, I'm surprised the committee didn't count, but I hope he's counting it now, from the rostrum, our friend Leschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u234	Dear Boris Yakovic, I personally share your remark, but the committee has just accepted it, so I'm asking you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u235	I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 9 of the People's Deputies of Bezpalog. [[14:09:02]] For 186 The decision is not taken. Who else insists on repairs? Please, Alexander Baranowski. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u236	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, I propose in my amendment that the words "governments" should be replaced by the words "executive authorities," which means the local self-government of the land should decide, and the term "state administrations" should be replaced. So I'd like to take that into account. And the land area can be leased along with plantations, buildings, buildings, and reservoirs that are located on it, not separate areas, separate buildings.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u237	The point is that the authority given in this article, not only by state administrations but also by other authorities, is meant by local councils and so forth. And it's all regulated by the Earth Code and the laws on administration and local self-government. So the committee turned it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u238	Do you insist on voting? I am voting for amendment No. 8 of the national deputies Grzezhev and Baranowski. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:10:26]] For-189 189, not accepted. Please, Bezpali. I'm sorry. Unburned, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u239	I'd like to do it at 21 but first I'd like to say about the 9th amendment. The violation of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u240	We have already voted on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u241	I understand. I would then like to ask the government to apply the veto to this position, because we cannot give tenants the right to rule even by voting in the session room. That's ridiculous. I think with the 21st amendment, it'll be more successful. It says, "If a citizen is convicted of being deprived of his liberty, the lease goes to family members." That's right. But the new Criminal Code of ours, the new criminal procedure legislation provides for a form such as restrictions of will. Clearly, it is a slightly softer form, but it also prevents renting. That's why I suggested that we complement: "...to take away the will, and also to limit the will." [[or restrictions on freedom]] I don't think I can help but agree, because a person whose will is limited can't be a renter. It's just that this form is new, so the committee probably didn't count.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u242	No, Your Honor Boris Jacobovich, I was just looking at the committee. Indeed, this is softer, the limit only. That's why the committee rejected your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u243	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 21 of the People's Deputies of Bespalogo. [[14:12:11]] For 124 The decision is not taken. Who else insists on repairs? Please, Bezpali. Let's all just say the amendments right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u244	Since I can see that there's some reason the committee doesn't agree with the past, it's just going to be hopeless to put it to a vote. I just have to say that our faction will not be able to support an absurd law that allows through rent to steal the entire country of Ukraine. Then I'm just asking everyone to vote against it if they don't take a hundred percent offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u245	Please, what an amendment, Ivanov, what an amendment to you, the People's Rule faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u246	I'm asking you to clarify one situation. Let's say the administration is clearly in charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u247	Correction number, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u248	I can't say anymore because we've been through it a little bit. But the question arises, let's say.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u249	I mean, your repair number? It's not an E.R., it's a session room. Repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u250	B. No administration, we leave this issue at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u251	Yes, please, Rudzkowski. Let's do the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u252	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished reporter. I want to ask you to withdraw this bill from consideration or transfer it to third reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u253	Unplug the microphone, please. There's an amendment vote coming up. Valentina Seminouk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u254	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, as the author of the previous land lease law, I would like to say that the bill, which has been tabled today, has unfortunately failed to take into account the opinion of the Scientific and Experimental Department in the part of the budget coming. And I want to ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, my amendments were included in the first reading, and this is not included after processing part of the income from the rent. So I'm going to ask you to take into account the comments of the Scientific and Experimental Department on the third reading. That's very important, because coming into the rent budget, especially in agricultural areas, is coming into the budget. Thank you. I have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u255	Thank you. We're looking at the amendments. Please, Vladimir Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u256	The committee considered all the comments and suggestions and considered them. I don't know what this is about, honestly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u257	What other comments are there regarding amendments that have not been taken into account? You don't? The committee's proposal, please make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u258	I told the committee to accept it in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m0.u259	I put to the vote a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Land Rental Act. [[new editor]] Please vote. A government project. [[14:15:15]] For 215 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for re-reading this bill. Please vote. [[14:15:39]] For 243 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00. Members of the parliamentary groups and factions, please gather to discuss urgent problems in the office.
