ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you. Good morning to the invited and guests of the Supreme Council, journalists. I'd like to ask the people's deputies to take their seats, because we're going to have to vote now. If you don't support it, if you don't vote for it, there will be no decision. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:14:25]] Registered -407 is registered in the 407 National Deputies Session Room. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputies of Ukraine, Bespalo Oleg Pavlovich and Gladys Mikhail Vasilovich. Let us welcome them and wish them every success, the primary health. And while national MPs are kissing nouns, I'd like to make a statement. First information. We have already received the Constitutional Court's decision on the bill, the first bill to amend the Constitution. We haven't officially received it yet. In the near future, the Constitutional Court's conclusion on the second bill will be reached. Then we need to arrange for the work to be done on these documents in order to be considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To this end, leaders of MP groups and factions will consult on Monday. And we're going to decide who's going to be working on these bills, or this commission that we have, or maybe we're going to need to complement, to clarify the composition of this committee. I'd like to ask the leaders of the MPs and factions to work out their proposals for a meeting we'll have on Monday. Next. Dear colleagues, all these days we have been discussing the proposal for the wishes of the leaders of MP groups and factions to unlock the work of the Supreme Council. Rule four was discussed in this regard. First. Listen to information from the minister of the interior, as well as the minister of education and science. The second point is to create a commission of inquiry by proposing to a national deputy of thirty plus one by one by the faction. The question was that in the last project that the faction of "Our Ukraine" and the other factions supported, it was proposed that the head of the commission, the national deputy of Catherineczuk, should be selected immediately. We have discussed this issue today and have concluded that it is possible that there may be no apologetic charges of bias in this commission, then it is obvious that a commission should be created and that they should determine their own leader. The second was the offer. I'm asking you very carefully, I'm going to put these proposals to the vote right now, and I'm going to ask you to support and vote. Listen. One more moment. Assign a working group, create a working group, please listen. Create a working group consisting of three committees headed by the National Deputies Moysik, Stretovich, as well as Matviyenko, who worked here, as well as on the ground, and concluded that we could put together all the information and make the right conclusions, recommendations and suggestions. And finally, the fourth offer. To be held on Tuesday, the following Tuesday, after the Government Day, when we listen to the information of the two ministers of the closed session -- the congregations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where in principle, openly, transparently, honestly, looking each other in the eye to say about the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, about our relationship, about what we should do, what we should do, what we should do, what we would do, so that the Supreme Council would be the Supreme Council, so that it itself would not work to diminish its authority. Normal offers? Now sit down, we'll vote for them. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE In a bag for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u2	In the bag, just sit down, please, you won't be able to vote. If they don't vote, then run back here, for God's sake! I'll wait for you to come. I'm asking the National Deputies, what else can I offer you in the package to vote on? Let's maybe have an election, what else should we vote on? Budget? Let's vote in the package right now, let's finish, let's do it. Yes, Your Honor, I'd like your attention. I will now put to the vote in the package the following suggestions: ( 1) On Tuesday, after the Government Day, we agreed on a preliminary hearing format and a listening policy. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE Today!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u3	Calm down! That's it, that's it, that's it. Let's go because you won't get anything then. Calm down, please. I ask the faction leaders or my leaders to make arrangements. That's what I want to say. On Tuesday, the following Tuesday, after the Government Day, listen to the information of the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Education and Science, then hold a closed meeting of the Supreme Council, and decide to form a commission of inquiry in that percentage of the ratio that I have just said, like one in thirty national deputies and plus one by one by the faction. I'm putting these three proposals in a ballot box. Please vote. Vote please! [[10:20:33]] For 219 Please, by the factions. Dear colleagues, sign up. 10 minutes to exchange motive and procedure, please. Let's read it. Now print it out and give every national MP the results, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u4	And we'll give it to the people. Don't shout. Please, on the board is the name of the MPs who signed up. Valérie Konovaluk. It's a faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u5	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I would also like to address the distinguished national MPs. Yesterday there were parliamentary hearings with the order of the day, "The Moral Crisis, Spiritual in Society." Here we see this crisis, unfortunately, in the Supreme Council. I think that the reasons that now block the rostrum with individual political forces can support any decision we make. But that doesn't lead to anything. Because there's going to be a show. It's good for someone, it's bad for someone. And they're going to block the rostrum all the time. That's why we demand that we be able to work peacefully, work on those bills that our voters are currently waiting for. I ask very much, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that the regulatory committee also give its opinion on the violation of the rules of procedure. So I'm asking those who are blocking the rostrum right now: give us the opportunity to work, let us solve the issues in a way that is not just for you personally, but for the entire Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u6	National MP Gavriluk, Vasil Gavriluk, People's Landing Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u7	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, colleagues, I would urge you not to violate the Rules. Today we have with you a rule that we live and work on, where it is clearly stated that a people's MP should vote on his own, “in person”. And you're in the Bureau and you're showing that you should vote for your comrades there. Please unlock the rostrum. Let us begin to vote normally for the package offered by the Head of the Supreme Council. And we will adopt the most important bills on the agenda today. And then it'll be a normal job for the Supreme Council to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u8	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u9	May I have Valery's word for the Pavlovitch Desert?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u10	Valerius the Empty Tank.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u11	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we're taking the eighth position, and this one too. Honorable compatriots and distinguished fellow national MPs! For several weeks, the work of the Supreme Council is an unprecedented blockage. The parliamentary rostrum has become a place to announce mutual accusations and political speeches with a clear focus on elections and on the instrument of ideological manipulation. The reasons for this state of affairs are obvious to me. First, the shadowy influence on Parliament's work, which leads to increased tension in most and opposition factions, disorganizes most of the work, transforms most of Parliament and the whole of it into a public appendage of a bureaucratic system. Secondly, the excessive ambitions of those politicians who are already running an open electoral campaign and using public policy, parliament, information resources, not just as a means of their own elections. Under such circumstances, the Supreme Council cannot work and is effectively doomed to progressive self - discredit, which will inevitably be followed by its timely reelection. But I would like to ask: Who is favorably discredited by Parliament today, and who wants to run for office? Because in this scenario, everyone who doesn't have ratings is losing. At the same time, I declare that neither I nor you nor anyone else have any right to block Parliament's work by nullifying its status, transforming the single legislative body of the State into a political barricade. I want to say the third reason for today's parliamentary crisis. It's not stopping political reform, it's actually ignoring it. And I want to state that I am convinced that there is only one way -- responsiblely, we need to gather all the leaders of the MP groups and factions and make decisions about speeding up the signing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u12	Dirty, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, first of all, on behalf of the socialists, I would like to congratulate you on your holiday -- the 60th anniversary of the liberation of the city of Kiev and tomorrow's celebration of the Great October. I'd like a word with Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u14	Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u15	Thank you, Anatoly Dmitrovich. Alexander Frost, Socialist faction. Valerius Desertoujetenko told the truth: a shadowy influence on Parliament's work is also the address of this shadowy influence - the Bank's Street, the President's Administration. Who's blocking the Supreme Council's work now? Let's find out. We made a proposal that was now announced by the Head of the Supreme Council. How can we unlock the work of the Supreme Council? To hear the information of the forces that are being beaten against Parliament today at the direction of the President's Administration. On the day of the non-sessional session, the next Tuesday after the Government Day. To whom does this hinder why the majority today does not vote, thereby provoking the next dispute with the government, which part of the factions seems to stand up. Look who's leading you today, good people! So I propose once again to put to the vote a proposal by the Head of the Supreme Council to support this proposal and start work, because the opposition that votes unanimously for this proposal and blocks the work of the Supreme Council most, Valeriy Pavlovich, I remind you to pay attention to this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u16	Valentina Matviev, Communist MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u17	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! I was forced from the hospital to attend this meeting today. You can understand why. The Regulatory Committee will consider the situation that took place in the Plenary Hall if this is to be done by the Supreme Council. But you are well aware that all of us — the Supreme Council — need to get out of this situation to all fellow Ukrainian national deputies. And that's why we can only get out of this colossal by concerted action. And I think that the proposal that was made yesterday by the Communist faction is to take a deep and comprehensive look at what happened, and not to repeat what is being done today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is necessary to create a temporary commission, and so I would ask all the national MPs, all the parliamentary factions, the parliamentary groups to vote in favour of creating a temporary commission and to remove the tension. The commission will determine who is responsible for the actions that have been taken to block the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u18	Alexander Turchinov, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u19	Dear colleagues! What has taken place and continues to take place in the regions shows that the constitutional system itself is at stake today. In certain areas of Ukraine, the Constitution does not work. That's the problem, dear colleagues. And that's why we need to bring in those who are responsible for this, who are implementing the anti-constitutional rebellion. That is why I do not understand why the representatives of the majority who agree to the meetings do not give the command to vote on their factions. So I'm addressing you, fellow citizens of the majority, let's get out of this majority and form a democratic majority together, unlock the work of Parliament, and adopt all the laws that will save our country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u20	Boris Bespali. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u21	Boris Bespali. Victor Yuschenka's block of Ukraine. First. Unfortunately, Vladimir Mihajlovich did not announce who was blocking the meetings of the Supreme Council then the whole of Ukraine would have heard that the Presidential majority had not voted in favour of the compromise proposals. It's different. I join in and our faction greets the liberators of Kiev, and the more we do not allow these solemn days to come to Donetsk and there or in subjugation of power, or its stopping is a Fascist symbolism. Of course, it is not surprising that we insist on an immediate report by the leaders of all the power structures and the minister of education and science that contributed to the creation of the commission of inquiry. Third. To colleagues from most of them. Here you are, normal boys and girls, normal deputies and I support means turning, and the Desert Lady, and the Turk's get up, on the rest of you, on your knees and stop wiping the dust on Bank Street. Become yourself, become Ukrainian national MPs, and I think that together we will do what we all promised voters, and we will stop being choruses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u22	Yuri Crook. The faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u23	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We're a faction. Valery Pavlovich Pashtowatenko spoke and fully highlighted the faction's view we absolutely support him, and we insist that the work should still be unlocked. And start working normally in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u24	So, what do we have in time? Time's up. Dear colleagues, the time is up, please, time is up. Dear colleagues, let me now repeat my proposals. If you don't make a decision, I'm adjourning the Supreme Council meeting today. I don't need a few, I'll bet you one last time. Listen carefully to further suggestions. First offer. Tuesday, the following Tuesday after the day of the government, listen to information from the ministers of interior affairs, education, and science. The other one. Establish a temporary commission of inquiry to study the situation surrounding the holding of a democratic power forum in Donetsk. This is document number 4326. One member is proposed to a committee of 30 national deputies, plus one man from MPs and factions. And finally the third. On Tuesday, after hearing the relevant ministers' information, there will be a closed meeting of the Supreme Council on the agenda that I have already told you about. I'm voting on these three proposals in a packet. Please vote. [[10:33:29]] For-195
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u25	To - 195. It's being announced. Just a minute. It's being announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, no matter what you block, you don't scream, you'd announce everything. Don't bend me to my knee. You're breaking the rules, and I'm going to break it too. I'll call it an 11-hour break, please, 11 hours 30 minutes. Members of the MPs and factions, please gather.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u27	I'd like you to meet me in the head office. Don't rape me, you won't make it. I owe a lot of money.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u28	A meeting of the conciliator board is under way. I was invited to inform all the deputies that it would take another 30 minutes to continue the meeting of the Conciliation Council. The extension will be calculated at 12.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u29	Yes, dear colleagues, we have arranged so that now, and faction leaders have supported it, that now everyone is sitting in place, I will present the proposal that was. If it's not accepted, then we'll continue our consultations. Sit down, please. No one will vote. I ask you, my fellow Members, once again, please sit down and no one will continue the work of the Supreme Council unless we have any agreement here when we do not find a compromise. And no one will put anything to the vote, you can take my word for it. Please! I don't like it when they're standing in the back of the head breathing. Well, please, take your seats. Well, he'll leave a few people behind and sit down. What are you doing for God's sake?Oh, my God! I'll let you know, then I'll close the meeting. There was such an offer. Can you hear me? Can I have a word with you, dear fellows?Oh, my God! Many suggestions were made, including questions related to the hearing of the leaders of the power structures, the creation of a commission of inquiry, the creation of a working group of three committees, and the holding of a closed meeting. I offered a compromise solution because there were four different issues to consider, so just to hold a closed meeting on Tuesday and to limit these issues. And I suggested this algorithm for our actions. Please listen carefully. But I understand he's taking down all the questions and reasons to block. First. It is now urgent to create a working group consisting of the three committees of Anatolia Matviyenka, Vladimir Stretovich, Roman Moisik, to create a working group, Vladimir Romanovich Moisik, sorry, to create a working group that would investigate urgently all the circumstances related to the processes and problems that took place in Donetsk. To prepare for Tuesday’s consideration of the matter at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the following Tuesday, in such a way as to determine the procedure, the order of the consideration of the matter, the persons to be invited by the officials. And this task force has to be defined to the extent that each of the invited persons, including the leaders of the power structures, is involved in the consideration of this issue. After we have considered this issue, we will also write down the task of this working group to work out draft decisions such as: to create a commission of inquiry, if necessary, maybe we will exhaust this problem by considering or adopting a draft decision, there have been proposals to anticipate measures that would make it impossible to do something similar for a further period of time in connection with the activation of the pre-election campaign. We've come to the conclusion that since this question is agreed upon on the Supreme Council, if it comes to creating a commission of inquiry, we're only going to have 150 votes, because that's as a result of the consideration of the issue. So you don't have to put the commission of inquiry in order of day and create a commission of inquiry. I mean, I'm offering as much compromise as possible so that we can unlock the work of the Supreme Council and listen to all the information that needs to be given and evaluate and ask the necessary questions. Then we go to work in a closed session of the Supreme Council, where we discuss the main and urgent problem: what we will do next, so that the Supreme Council does not lose its authority, so that it is efficient, so that we can be consolidated, so that we can rely on what someone is directing us, so that we can make decisions here in the session room, and, by making decisions, ensure their inescapable execution, so that the authority, the integrity of the people's MP in carrying out his duties as a national deputy is unabated. Or else we're in the same way, your honorary colleagues, showing how we behave in the session hall, how we treat each other, how we listen to each other's arguments, how we will treat the Supreme Council and each individual national MP. We lower our authority ourselves, we lose our positions ourselves. We will be treated as we deserve, as we treat Ukraine both with the state and as it deserves. We're a mirror reflection of this. We cannot listen to each other, but we want you to be respected in a separate region. Don't let them respect you! And me, too. I'm not raising. I'm asking you to calm down! I'm just telling you what the situation is, and I'm offering as much a compromise as possible. Does that suit you? But listen, I'd like to explain again for the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u30	But you don't have to vote for that. If there is agreement, we make decisions, we unlock, we go to work. Once again, I offer the most compromising proposal, which takes into account all the insistence, including the factions of our Ukraine. I'm telling you again. First. Within an hour, a working group is formed on three committees — government - building issues, issues. Well, calm down, for God's sake! Well, do you have any respect and stamina? On the basis of three committees: State building, the fight against organized crime, the legal protection of law enforcement. This commission will be empowered to examine all aspects of this problem, to prepare relevant information and materials for the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tuesday after the Government Day, it will determine the order, procedure, regulations and timing of this matter. Among those to be invited to the meetings of the Supreme Council and the information to be heard here. Then she makes suggestions for decisions. If this applies to the need to continue our work, then we make a decision to create a commission of inquiry, and it takes 150 votes, because we will make the decision as a result of the discussion. If it is necessary to take decisions and determine the measures that would be envisaged by the safeguards to prevent something like this, to guarantee rights, to empower the people's deputies, let us write them out clearly and vote them out, and then move on to the closed part of the Supreme Council meeting to discuss our internal problems with the organization of further work of the Supreme Council. So once again, I'm stressing this isn't a discipline, it's just a statement of what I'm going to do. If you agree, then we don't need to vote on this issue. I'm taking on such a responsibility that we're going to be looking at this issue in this mode. Please tell me what else is needed to block the rostrum? [[B in m in s a l in]] . We're not going to go into discussion, and let's just stick with it. Calm down, dear fellows. Sit down, everyone, and then there'll be a word. If this proposal is not supported, then let's vote that we're going to have a discussion. I can't, Victor Andryovich. Please make an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, what happened in Donetsk is the insolence and violation of the law and the Constitution. So four factions of the Ukrainian Parliament: Communists, socialist, "Our Ukraine" and BUT insist that this issue, the conflict that arose, be settled through three successive steps. Step one. Listen to information from ministers of power and education. Step two. Create a special commission of inquiry. Step three. To hold a closed meeting of the Supreme Council on the political situation. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address you. If we understand you correctly, your proposal for Tuesday, if it predicts that there will be a report by the ministers and the minister of education along with the information on the BSI procedure, along with the information of the working group you have called, let us vote in favour of this issue. But all you have to do is say it's going to be intelligence from the ministers, a report from the ministers with the right to ask questions about the substance of the matter. That's the offer, Your Honor. And let us not be misled. One side says that the power ministers in parliament won't appear, that's the position, and everything else is just being set in motion to get the issue in motion. So I make it clear: the report of the ministers of power, the minister of health, education, excuse me, and everything you've said.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u32	Thank you. Please, Valery Pavlovich Desert Tenko. Then from most of Stephen Bogdanov's position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I made this point here, in the session room, and I spoke for the meetings of MPs and factions. Our principle position: we can vote, but the only condition is that you use a constant method of pressure on the majority, on individual deputies and on the Supreme Council in general. Take off the lock, and we'll support your offer. Until the blockade is lifted, we will not support that proposal, except for another, but the proposal of the Chief of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u34	Please, Stepan Gavrish. The position of the majority.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u35	Dear colleagues! We have a day of discussion that is essentially not regular, because the parliamentary majority has decided to meet the demands of the "Our Ukraine" Block and the inter-committee in accordance with the Rules and the Constitution is equal to creating a working group to study this issue and report to us. With regard to the urgent and urgent call of ministers for information to Parliament, we believe that there is no basis for this. Because in such a case, powerful ministers will be placed under the control of political forces and will be forced to act, not in accordance with the law and their professional duties, but to be guided solely by emotions and political demands on the part of the political forces. To this end, we suggest that we discuss this issue by a special working group on an interfractional basis on the basis of three committees, hold this hearing in a closed session or Parliamentary Assembly and then determine the need for such information in Parliament. We do not deny it, and we believe that government officials should be in the parliamentary rostrum and provide us with relevant information. But only if it is sufficiently substantiated will there be appropriate grounds for this, based on the tradition and the Rules that are in the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u36	Calm down. Alexander Frost. Two will be from the opposition, two from the majority, and we will close the meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u37	Alexander Frost. The Socialist faction. I'd like anyone to be able to give an example that in the American or any other parliament 210 MPs asked the minister to come to a meeting and explain his position, and he ignored that invitation. He or she would not be at work tomorrow, and this order would have been accepted by the President if there were no such powers in Parliament. Today, disregard for the authority of the higher legislature is clearly demonstrated. And we don't demand blood from anyone else, we want the order provided for in the Constitution to work. The Cabinet of Ministers and its structures are accountable to the Supreme Council under the Constitution. And that's why there has to be someone in charge of the rule of law in the state who doesn't want to be told that he's a representative of the political power, that he's going to be involved in the next presidential election, that's why we know that the President has already decided to go to the third term, ignoring the Constitution. So it's not just a blockage. And today it's blocking the Supreme Council, not the opposition, but what most of Stepan Gavris said today, that they don't think it's necessary for them to come here because they're controlling them today, and he still thinks they're controlling them. No, it's not. He will see them beat him tomorrow, and then he will think otherwise, but it will be too late. For that to happen, we need to make decisions today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u38	Ladies and gentlemen. Replica - Gavrish. Please don't call me names.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u39	Dear Alexander Aleksandrovich may need to study a more accurate history in order not to make mistakes in his own. When you make these statements, you have to be very careful about the traditions, including in the American Congress, where the opposition, forgive me, do not sit on the head of the Supreme Council and block the work of its Congress. On the other hand, I would like to warn you about such abusive speeches to my colleagues, for God forbid that they beat not only me but also you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your permission? I'm asking for your attention. Allow me in general. I want to start with what Alexander Alexander said. Dear Alexander Alexander, we've just agreed on something different than what you said. So let's do the deal. You told me if you told me these proposals and you said they'd be invited, and we'd hear the relevant information, well, please, we talked about the information tomorrow. Well, calm down, please. Well, do you have a conscience or not? I see you don't take her to work when you leave. That's what you said: then the question will be solved, we'll make a decision. Now you've started talking about something else. So, dear colleagues, we have a situation where we don't work out with the leaders of groups and factions. Let's define by vote. Or let us do something, empower people, those who come and answer for their decisions. Because I'll tell you, I've been trying to break things, break most of them, and propose a decision that would unlock the work of the Supreme Council. They came to the session room, and there were some other positions. I want to do it again, and you'll understand. What Victor Andriyovich was talking about, what Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich was talking about, is actually, but what is the sequence? Listen again, one more minute. Oh, come on, listen. You can hear me say it again. Maybe I didn't say it exactly, maybe you'll understand it more clearly now. Is there a need to consider the matter? I have to. Everybody's on it, right? Next. But what is proposed? Take it easy, Joseph Vicentiovich, you're a smart man. Please. But respectable colleagues, but in order for any matter to be considered, you obviously need to prepare it. We agreed that Tuesday should be considered. Do we have a deal? It's a deal. But there is an order to prepare the matter. That now the three committees are in the hands of opposition leaders, Anatoly Matviyenko, Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, Vladimir Mikolayovich Strtovic, they are providing preparations for this issue on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u41	Why isn't he here? I'd like to explain to Bondarenko who would look into the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u42	I don't have to look. If the day isn't right, we won't be able to make 150 decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u43	I want to explain it to him again. What does the Conciliation Council determine about the issue of inclusion in the day - to - day order? We've identified him. If we've defined it and it's there.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u44	vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u45	Well, there's money for fish again. It's just me. Let's say we vote. Let me explain. And he said, and he told Bondarenko and all the other people's deputies that if we consider this issue on Tuesday, we're discussing it, the decisions that we're going to make, they're going to be taken as a result of the discussion. And we don't need 226 votes to make a decision on the commission. If I say so, I'm responsible for those words. There are 150 votes and a decision is made on the commission of inquiry. But when the question is being prepared, your honorary colleagues, the question that is being prepared, any question, any question, a committee that is profiled, he determines that the reporter from this question is a minister, a co-reporter from this question is a committee member or committee manager, and so much time is being asked, for answers, so much time is being put to discussion. And when there are more than 45 minutes, the question is whether there will be agreement in the hall or whether there will be no objection in the hall. And then we actually took out all the warnings, and we actually agreed that there would be both the muscle, and there would be this format of consideration of the issue and this procedure, as the committee heads would suggest. But I, my esteemed colleagues, want to say with all my responsibility that I can vote now, I'm going to put it, but the question in another question, and the blocking goes on on a completely different basis, and those who block why it goes. I don't want to talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! The next question is found in the next issue, which is the first to review the order of the day of our session. And you don't want to make that decision. So, dear fellows, I'll put the proposal I've proposed, if you like, on the vote. Well, I'll do it again in Ukrainian. We're voting in a bag right now. If you have an elementary logic, give us a chance to say. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE I've got logic.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u47	Now I'm voting on the following proposals: Tuesday. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u48	One minute, let me finish. Tuesday we're looking at information on the situation. Second, one minute, the other. Just a minute. The other one. We make appropriate decisions about the creation of a commission of inquiry, we make other decisions on the outcome of the discussion, and we discuss the results of a discussion that does not need to be included in the agenda, because the issue will be included in the agenda. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE It won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-06-m0.u49	Listen up! And the third is that after that, we're holding a closed session of the Supreme Council. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I'm asking everyone to vote. [[13:14:34]] For-96 Dear national MPs, meetings, distinguished colleagues, let's go to the factions. Dear colleagues, I will now tell you who voted in favour of this proposal. "Our Ukraine" -0; Communist Party of Ukraine -58; "Regions of Ukraine" -4; Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs and "Urban Ukraine" -0; Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine -0; "The People's Government" -3; Socialist Party of Ukraine -0; Yulia Party Timoshenko -0; "Deminicatives" -0; "European Choice" -9; Agrarian Party -0; NDP -0; "National Choice" -0; Postfraction -3. I think one minute, we didn't agree on the report, I won't put it at all. Don't shout. Ladies and gentlemen, it's interesting to see that most of us have been in solidarity with our Ukraine, and obviously, we have some kind of secret arrangement. In order to clarify them, I declare today's meeting of the Supreme Council closed.
