ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u1	People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. There are 408 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We extend the consideration of matters according to the schedule of meetings. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being submitted for consideration. [[in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act "On Professional Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees of Activities"]] We're working on a reduced procedure. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinović is invited to the report, Minister of Justice of Ukraine. We still have so many drafts to consider today. Very short, if you please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u2	You can do it very briefly, but you can do it briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u3	Well, let's cut to the chase.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u4	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The draft law was drafted for a commission, which was set out in the Professional Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees Act, which was adopted in this session hall on December 15, 2001. The draft law provides for amendments to the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine, the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Law on Taxation of Business Income, the Code on Businesses in Ukraine, the Revolving of the Debtor or the Recognition of Its Bankruptcy, Pension Insurance, the Privatization of State Property, the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security, the Road Traffic, the Paying of Work, Vacations, the Settlement of Collective Labour Disputes, the Scientific and Scientific Technical Activities, the Local Public Administrations, the General Obligation of State Social Insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by birth and burial, the Credit Associations and the Mining Act of Ukraine. These are the entire list of acts that are being amended by the draft law. The draft proposes that the Labour Code amend articles that reflect the standards of the Ukrainian Professional Associations Act, their rights and guarantees of activity that have been amended in connection with the adoption of the Law on 13 December 2001. In particular, article 246 of the Code provides for the provision of 37 articles that regulate the activity of primary professional organizations in businesses. The proposal to amend 247 articles of the Code, which provides for the authorization of an elected body of the primary professional organization at an establishment, is based on 38 articles of the adopted law. In article 249 of the Code, it is proposed to amend the standard of article 42, part 3, on monthly and free retention of employers from the salaries of employees who are members of the trade union on their written claims, on the membership of the trade union and on the basis of the accounts of the trade union. 250 articles of the Codex are proposed in a new edition that takes into account Article 44 of the adopted law, which provides for the employer's obligation to account for the costs of primary professional organizations for cultural, physical and health work in terms of collective agreements and agreements, but not less than 0.3 per cent of the work fund with the contribution of these amounts to gross costs and the budget area by the allocation of additional budgetary allocations. Article 252 of the Code is complemented by a new part regarding the granting of additional leave during professional training to employees selected to be members of elected professional bodies of enterprises. institutions and organizations. The proposed addition is derived from 41 articles of the law. In addition, in connection with the stated law, it is envisaged to make appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Vacation Act. The Code also provides for a number of terminology changes resulting from the law on trade unions. Amendments proposed to the Business Act in Ukraine, including the addition of article 15, paragraph 4, to the fact that labour and socio-economic rights and the interests of employed workers can be represented by professional organizations, taking into account the standard of part two of article 13 of the Trades Act. Regarding the State’s recognition of trade unions as full representatives of workers and advocates of their social and economic rights and interests, it cooperates with the professions in their implementation, it promotes the establishment of business partnerships with employers and their associations. The project also proposes to amend the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine, including section 2 of article 248/1 on the right to appeal to the court. You also have this text. A number of amendments are proposed to the Income Taxation Act, such as Article 7, paragraph 7.11, which regulates the issue of exemption from taxation of income from nonprofit organizations that are professional associations. Other project proposals for changes to a number of laws relate to terminology changes arising from the law on professional associations, their rights and guarantees of activity. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u5	Yes, thank you, please sit down, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Vasil Georgievovich Hara, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Please take the position of committee on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, Alexander Vladimirovic has made my task easier, he has said almost everything. I'm literally four very short comments, momentarily. First, it must be said that the bill has been submitted with considerable delay for consideration. In 1999, the Trade Unions Act was passed, and two months later we had to consider a similar law, but it was only introduced on 13 September. Second, the bill proposes to introduce, in accordance with 17 Ukrainian legislation, the provisions of the trade union law. So here, practically, on a formal basis: there are laws -- we have a duty to amend existing laws. Third, the Committees of the Supreme Council on Science and Culture, on Security and all others that considered the bill supported its adoption as a basis for first reading. Finally, in accordance with the decision of the committee that considered the bill on 27 November 2002, we propose to adopt it as a basis. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u7	Yes, thank you, Vasil Georgiyovich, sit down, please. Yeah, we need to talk about this right now, two for, two for. Vladimir Puzakov, the Communist faction, please, your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u8	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Kirovogradština The proposed changes to the Ukrainian Professional Associations Act, their rights and guarantees of activity make it impossible for a real definition of the status of trade unions. The status of trade unions is, in fact, the definition of the most representative organization. The existence in the law of this rule, which defines certain levels of employment by their status, is consistent with international and national legislation. The level of representation of trade unions and their unifications are based on the need to resolve the issues of negotiating and concluding agreements at national, sectoral and regional levels, participating in social insurance management. The concept of representation of their unions is in full conformity with the requirements of the Treaty of Versailles under Article 5 of the Statute of the International Trade Organization. The status of public organizations was first defined by article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Citizens, an existing article conforming to this law and international law. The draft of the new law allows companies with an unknown number and structure to determine for themselves the status of all countries or regions; it can cause negative trends, both in the labour market and in the relationship of employers' associations, government authorities of all levels with trade unions, in the contractual regulation of labour, socio-economic relations of employed workers. The adoption of such an editorial will worsen the position of workers, allow them to make agreements with trade-friendly companies, which can significantly exacerbate the socio-economic situation of workers and cause negative social consequences in society. Today, the current edition of article 16 of the Ukrainian Act on Professional Associations of Their Rights and Guarantees of Activity has already been brought into line with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of October 18, 2000, at number 11, which is why its subsequent amendment is unearmarked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u9	Yes, the offer is clear. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u10	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Motherland Defenders. "Solidarity," "Our Ukraine." Dear National Deputies! Dear Minister of Justice! I am addressing you as Minister of Justice, unless today there may be a permit for registration, unless there is one law in Ukraine today that is in conflict with Ukraine's international conventions. You are well aware that article 2 of ILO Convention No. 87, ratified by Ukraine, provides that workers have the right to create their own choice of organization without a previous one, I stress, this permission, as well as the right to join these organizations for one purpose: subordination of the statutes of these organizations, not subordination of the Cabinet or some ministry. According to article 3 of this convention, workers’ organizations have the right to organize their apparatus and activities freely and to formulate their own agenda. And the government has to refrain from any interference that can limit this right, or hinder its legitimate exercise. In Ukraine, however, everything is done in the opposite direction and in an area that is said to not be haunted. Although I say that the void goes very much, the bumper is at every level. Article 4 of the ILO 98 Convention provides for the encouragement and promotion of the full implementation of the process of negotiating on a voluntary basis between employers and workers' organisations with a view to regulating working conditions through collective bargaining. The ILO Freedom Committee, following a 2097 complaint against the Government of Ukraine, recommends that the Government of Ukraine take effective measures to implement the law in accordance with Conventions 87 and 98 and inform the International Labour Organization accordingly. Mr. Secretary of Justice, don't you understand what's going to happen next? Then there will be sanctions against Ukraine. I warn you, I warn Yanukovic, I warn President Kuchma of Ukraine that there will be further sanctions. Once again, the poor people will pay money only for the fact that some today want to usurp the rights of the trade unions. I'm talking to the union leaders of today who are sitting in this room, and I'm talking to Alexander Stoyan in particular. How can you keep silent when this is done today? We need to react. I address those who today appreciate the Constitution of Ukraine. Article 16 of the Act on Legalization of Trade Unions, Their Organizations, Trade Unions contravenes article 36 of the Constitution of Ukraine in part three, which states that trade unions are formed without prior permission on the basis of the free choice of their members, and you're talking about free registration. The desire to leave the registration in any way has led to the fact that the changes to the law of 13 December 2o01 in a clouded form have in fact left the conditions for the legalization of the trade union in such a way that they have been declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court of 18 October 2002. And it says, if anyone doesn't know, to admit that they don't comply with the Constitution of Article 16 of the Ukrainian Act on Professional Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees of Activities in Part of Establishing Such Legalization Conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u11	What is the conclusion?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u12	The conclusion is that what the government is proposing cannot be accepted. And on the contrary, I support what he says now, and the project is written by Volinz's national deputy. This will answer and remove the sanctions from Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u13	We've got two against us. Mikhail Volintz, do you mind? What the hell? The procedure is now shortened: two in, two in, two in. You will now report your bill. Are you in favour or against? Against it. Okay. Mikhailo Melniczuk, are you in favour or against this bill? Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk. Your last name was positive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u14	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region In general, I support this bill, but I have doubts about several articles. This is article 43, part seven, where the owner or the authorized authority has the right to release the employee without the consent of the elected body, that is, the trade committee. This is contrary to articles 246, 252 of the same law. So I ask you to note this in the drafting of this bill. We'll vote on Thursday, but I'm in.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u15	Vladimir Cherniak, are you in favour or against? Vladimir Kirilovich, are you in favour or against? If you don't mind, you don't have to stand up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u16	So much for what it's against. Of course, we understand the intentions of the government. Trying to settle a very specific sphere of trade. A very sensitive question, of course, is his intentions good and noble, but the adoption of this law may give rise to a coalition of our legislation with international conventions signed by Ukraine. In general, it cannot be a matter of free registration. This may be about settling this process, I'm in favour, but not in the way the government proposes, because the unions have to be formed without prior permission, because they have to be free, independent of the government. And that's their nature. If we change the nature of trade unions, then they won't be necessary. And if the unions depend on permission or disqualification, then they cannot perform their function. That is, trade unions should be freely organized, and if the government ensures that this is settled in such a way that they are able to organize freely, then the law can be adopted. And if you do. prevents a free organization from being accepted. And I share the proposal that was here regarding 43 articles on "Freedom from work without agreement with the union is impossible," or again they lose their role. And the last. Freedom to the trade unions. Freedom of the union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u17	Thank you. Replica, please. People's deputy Stoyan. Then Vernigor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u18	Alexander Stoyan, head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. Dear colleagues! I want you to take a close look at the law. In 1999, a law was passed on trades and rights and guarantees of activity. And since 1999, there has been no change in other laws to bring this law into line with other laws. The Ministry of Justice, we sincerely thank them, made changes to other laws, that is, it brings the rules of other laws in line with this law and nothing else. All that my colleague said beautifully, I'm not going to call it a last name, and others, it's going to be a law that will now report to my colleague Wolintz, that's also a registration, that's both legalization and here, for example, my position matches the position of Volintz, I'm willing to support it. But what Lavrinovich reported today is not applicable. I'm asking you to understand, we need to get the union law to work properly, make changes to other laws, that's all. Please get out of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u19	The People's Deputy of Vernigor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u20	Vernigore, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I would also like to point out that we've mixed it all together. And that's why, Alexander Volodymyrovich, you are also at the rostrum as the minister of justice very freely treat the trade unions. It's said everywhere, as in our domestic, domestic conversations, that they're called trade unions. The point is that first of all, we're going to bring the legislative base of the Civil Procedure Code itself, and then we're going to put the terminology in place, and then we're going to talk about the registration, the legalization, we're going to talk about now that Wolintz is going to report and then we're going to put or separate these two notions about our union laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u21	Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I, first of all, thank you for your attention to these changes and I would like to say that the project that I have just reported has no money that the government would make for your consideration. This is a legal and technical work that was done by you, your predecessors, more precisely when the law was passed in December 2001. Hence, the lack of perception of standardization in the law that has already been passed. Well, it's not exactly, let's say, that's how logical it looks. Yet, what claims were made is related to a law that is fundamental and that is subject to change. The Act on Professional Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees of Activities. I'm saying don't cancel out, because there's this kind of observation. And in considering this law is your exclusive right to take the initiative to change this law. We carried out the commission given by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, the review of the draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Professional Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees of Activities has been completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. But I would like to point out once again that this is a project that conforms to the previously adopted law. We have no basis for criticism here. A draft law on amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Act on Professional Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees of Activities is being announced for consideration, as well as the author of the Mikhailo Yakovic Wolinec bill. Please, Mikhail Yakovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u24	In addition, there are two authors, Mr. Wolintz, and the national deputy, Mr. Andriy Dercach. Dear MPs, distinguished radio listeners. We had just heard the report and had a discussion. According to the draft amendment to certain legislative acts. I mean, it's a gross violation of international law. Conventions 87 on Freedom of Association and 98 on Right to Negotiate have also been violated. Special decision of the Constitutional Court on this matter. The decision of the ILO Committee of Experts has been violated. The Constitution 36 is broken. So I had to file another bill to bring it into line with the legislation. Moreover, what has just taken place is more than ten laws of others that will later be very difficult to change. I'm very sorry that the minister of justice here was very inconsiderate. As a lawyer, he realizes that he is lying, that he cannot say that international legislation and the Constitution are being violated. And so perhaps he was ashamed to report just so vaguely. And what's important here is that today's unions don't protect themselves, they're not able to protect the people who are hired. And that's why the authorities are all the more trying to take over the unions, to take them for themselves, not to have a union with their partners, but to take them to serve themselves. And that's why the authors of article 16 of the union law are the head of the Federation of Trades and Tradesmen Alexander Stoyan and the head of the district council of the Hara Federation. And I'm surprised that these two deputies are members of the Labour and Social Policy Committee, they are now trying to violate more than ten laws of Ukraine and international law. And then, when weak unions, when they're unable to protect people, it happens that alternative independent unions that are starting to develop in Ukraine are being destroyed. That's what happened on the "Krasnolymanska" mine, where the head of the independent Kozuch trade union was beaten. And it has to do with both the director of the mine and the head of the state union. Today, in Pavlovgrad, twelve leaders of the independent mining industry began to starve in connection with the early payment of wages due to the fact that the trade was destroyed in the autumn of last year. Now in Kiev yesterday at Fauna Enterprises. The city's director of this company provoked the Berkutu challenge, and two Berkutu cars came to its challenge, trying to calm down the head of an independent union that demanded that they show him and give a copy of the draft order for the punishment of a member of an independent union. And when I was talking to the clerk, he said, these unions are illegal, because the 16th article of the Trades Act provides for the registration of trade unions in public authorities. This is once again a violation not only of the Constitution, but of Convention No. 87. And I suggest that people's deputies not vote today to change some of the legislation according to the existing legislation of the Trades and Trades Act, but first to consider the bills drafted by the Volinz and Dercac National Deputies, but only then to bring legislation into line with international norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u25	Yes, thank you, Mikhail Yakovic, please sit down, Leonid Mikhailovich Vernigor, and please invite the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour to the rostrum. It's written like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u26	Dear colleagues! Dear trade unionists! It's not the first call that we're considering this question as whether it's supposed to be a regulatory basis or our basic union law, the terminology of our professional activities, formations and so on, and whether it fits the legislative base today, or the international conventions on the right of trade unions to legalization or registration. I'd like to divide this question into two. First. What was reported by Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich cannot be so freely manipulated by the word of the trade union. In each particular case, until the legislator determines what a trade union is, what a trade union body is, what a primary body is, what a member of a trade union is. We're going to have this confusion all the time in our legislation and terminology and in our own laws. That's the first one. And second, who is challenged by the question of equal rights to legalize trade unions? I'd like you and I to divide the word "legalization" into two such stages. First, it's legalization as a message, and this legalization is used in equal rights by all the unions, whether in the region or in the field or in the whole of Ukraine. And secondly, the second stage of this legalization, actually legalization, is registration, that is, when a legal address organization is created, it should register itself in all, from statistical to administrative bodies, because they will not have the right of a legal person to defend the rights of a member of a trade union or of the entire organization, or of an all-U.S. trade union, or to sign or make a general or branch agreement, until we grant them the status of a legalized organization, including a registered organization. So I would like us not to be afraid, and Mikhailo Wolintz, too, should not flatter the tradesmen, we should accept both the first and the second bills as a basis. What is more, first, to consider a very scrupulous and scrupulous bill, which the Minister of Justice has reported, first solves the issues that apply to the Civil Procedure Code there, because they are followed by a lot of legislative, legal acts, and then to go back to the bill that colleague Volinec proposed to us. In such a situation, we can do it equally. Alexander Mikolayovich, I'm protecting you right now. And I would like us to show you wisdom at this very moment, and only in such a turn will we be able to defend the rights of our trade union advocates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u27	Yes, please, Basil Hara, head of the committee. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u28	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, since I have named my last name, I would like a line. Well, first of all, I'm not a defense, but there can be no claims against Alexander Vladimirovich Lavrinovich. Once again, there's a formal approach to what's in the trade union law has been transposed into the corresponding 17 bills. And the second. Mikhail Jakovljevic has once again referred to the gravest violation of international standards in the Trade Unions Act. I would like to recall that on 18 October 2000, the Constitutional Court considered these proposals by Mikhail Yakovlevich and made a clear decision and left the articles to which it today complains in the text of the law. And I say that no international norm is in conflict with that. And the second. It is difficult to understand Mikhail Yakovlevich's words, the law makes it impossible to work, registration for status does not allow trade unions to work. Since 1999, 99.9 per cent of all trade unions and trade unions have been re-registered since the law. Only an independent federation led by the Volintz and an independent mining trade union led by the Volintz was not re-registered. Thus, the law, despite the fact that there is a clear norm of trade unions that have not been reregistered, makes it impossible for them to work. He remained calm and still expressed such views on the matter. Our law. Therefore, we consider these to be voter statements. The law conforms to international standards. And our committee, no matter how much it offends him, even though it does not make the right and necessary proposals, our committee votes favourably and takes a decision in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u29	Alexander Stoyan is a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u30	Alexander Stoyan, head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. Dear colleagues, I wouldn't want it to seem like there are big unions here that are smothering by law small or independent. I want to remind my colleague Wolin that I was the author of the article, which states in the Constitution that all trade unions have equal rights. You can pick up the transcript when it was, as an MP for the first time, then I've been thinking about you and your rights. It's different. The Collective Contracts and Agreements Act gives the right to make collective agreements to all trade unions. Third moment. In the general agreement, when we negotiate, all the unions -- and I emphasize, including you, Mikhailo Yakovic -- have equal representation, and you and I are having negotiations on the social partnership council is equal representation, you are doing it on an international level to discredit one organization and to make it acceptable to yourself. Regarding registration or legalization. Yes, we can support your offer, your message, but, uh, Mikhailovich, I can't support your proposal when you suggest that the union determines its statute status. Today, a trade union can be created with three men. Imagine they were already speaking and saying, "There's a union of 3-5 people coming up." And the charter says it's all-Ukrainian. We have 120,000 primary organizations in the Federation today. It's going to be 120,000 Ukrainian level organizations, all the general agreement, all the sociostriches, and so on. What international standards there are, Michael Jacobovich! So let's bring it into line with international standards really. I support your offer, but let's get out of the current law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u31	Thank you. Yes, please, Justice Minister Lavrinovich. Okay. There'll be a lineup if Wolintz says he needs a line. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u32	Dear Michael Jacobovich! You have the honour of the National Deputy of Ukraine. It gives you very large rights. It gives you the right to initiate changes or adoption of any Ukrainian law. If you can't find support for your initiatives in your colleagues in the session room and you can't find support for your point of view in the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, it doesn't give you the right to misbehaviour in the session room. And for unfair grades. I'd like you to understand that. You have, in addition to the possibilities, a responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u33	Yes, Michael Volintz. The replica. Then we'll go to work. Well. Wait. No last names.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u34	I call to an equal extent to the favor of Justice Minister Lavrinovich, who was also a national deputy, and I would ask you to be more frank and as a lawyer to spell out exactly Convention 87 or 98 "The Right to Freedom of Association" and "The Right to Collective Contracts." You may be aware of a protest by experts from an international organization of the right to government of Ukraine to make appropriate changes. International legislation has more than a century of history and what is happening today in Ukraine and the fact that the government is resubmitting a bill in violation of international law and the Constitution does not honor Ukraine and does not honor the government and does not honor the country. And as for Alexander Stoyan and Basil Harry, I call them names again, they are the authors of the first version of the law, which was repealed by the Constitutional Court, they are the authors of changes to the law, which also violates international norms, and this is in a comparative table.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u35	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, please. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u36	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Honourable People’s Deputies, Bill 2563, submitted by the People’s Deputies Volinc, Derkac, is a bill that applies only to article 16 of the Single Act on Professional Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees of Activity. And I'd like to address you, Reverend Head of the Supreme Council, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! For your release, for your absence in Ukraine, you are released, as you know, from the Watch Tower, and I told you what would happen. For your release, for your absence, the head of the free union of the solidarity workers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mikol Vasilovich, deputy of the second convocation, was released. Mr. Vasiliev, your deputy, who had no right to be dismissed at all. So the unions are going to do what's going to be done right now. And now we see that the authorities are pushing the unions together. Pushes them, makes them pockety, pushes them with others. What was wrong with that? Who said anything about a decision by the Constitutional Court? I have time to quote you, let the people of Ukraine judge us. And so in the Constitutional Court's decision, I quote, "Concealing that the Constitution of Ukraine does not correspond to the provision of article 16 of the Ukrainian Professional Associations Act, their rights and guarantees of activity in part of the establishment of the legalization of trade unions, which in fact link the beginning of activities created to the purpose of ensuring and protecting the interests of the employees of the organization, such as trade unions at the time of its registration in the relevant bodies, which would also require prior permission to form a trade union." [[Unconstitutional -- that's what I'm explaining.]] This is stated in the Constitutional Court’s decision. And you don't have to set it up, you don't have to twist it. I refer here to both the Ministry of Justice and the Handicapped Professional Leaders. Ladies and gentlemen, please understand that the seat seat is a point of view, but when my colleague, Alexander Mikolaiovich, is speaking, I would like to remember that he has been chosen as representative of our Ukraine. And I know you're behind the Constitutional Court's decision, and you're backing him up from this rostrum right now, and you're sharing a little bit of a position here. And now I want to say what bad Wolintz is offering. He just says it's legalized, first of all, by a message. Second, they're formed without any permission from the union and legalized by a message. How many will there be? It's already a question of relevance. Let them compete with each other. And when are legal rights acquired? Let's go back to the Civil Code, the Civil Code says, article 25, article 26: "The legal person acts on the basis of the statute and has civil legitimacy according to. the purpose of her activities." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u37	Thank you. National Deputy Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u38	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Trade unions are called upon to protect the people who are hired in their assignment. And trying to make them handmade doesn't allow them to perform their function. There will always be tension between the unions and the government. And it's natural. If she's gone, there'll be no question. The legislative regulation of trade unions should help them carry out their main mission of protecting the people employed. And all of our steps in the legislative regulation should be aimed at that. The relationship between work and capital, labor and capital, trade and government is complex, acute, and controversial. Not just us, but the whole world, even the most democratic countries, civilized, as we say, the countries of the world are always acute and we cannot avoid it. Because there are corresponding contradictions and we need to find forms of their movement. These are interests, they need to be reconciled constantly, they cannot be reconciled once and for all. This is a permanent process of reconciliation of interests, which should last and the unions should play their part in this. We see that there are contradictions between the trade unions and their leaders, including in this room. And it's also normal and you don't have to make a drama out of it. We have a term: the unions are independent. Actually, that's a waste of time. Trade unions can only be independent. If they're addicted, they're no longer a union. But perhaps, since we had such a situation, it was necessary to use the epithet. The activities of the trade unions should be regulated by law. And here I absolutely want to support the government again, its efforts to regulate the activities of the unions. It's happening all over the world. But the question is, how, how? To carry out this mission, which I was talking about, and not to go into conflict with the international conventions and agreements signed by Ukraine. What are the main questions here? Legalization issues. Legalization through registration. Legalization of trade unions in public authorities is a major issue. How can we do this? Legalization, I support the proposal, has to happen through the message, not on the basis of permission, but through the reports of the union. Otherwise there will be no freedom of association and their right to negotiate will be violated. Of course, the second question that arises is the question of the formation of a legal person. It's a delicate question, and it's becoming a status issue. Here, I think we need to look for legal clarity right now to write out how a legal person acquires a trade union and acquires status in order to participate in negotiations and enter into a general agreement and agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u39	The draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Act on Professional Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees of Activities has been reviewed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. Stoyan, a replica, please. Oh, I'm sorry, I thought you were gone. You're about to perform. I'm asking you to cancel. Now, Stoyan's line. One minute, Mikhailo Pavlovski is written here, I didn't see you in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u40	Alexander Stoyan. Dear colleagues, I'd like to say that they were called Hara, Vernigor, Stoyan. We are proud to have been initiating the trade union law, and for eight years we fought for it. We thank the deputies, and there were many in the vocation that supported us. And we've created a law that meets international standards, we've done some research. And it protects both a small trade union and a large one, including a federation. But I don't want to call my colleague's last name, but you can't call it pocket money, any more. We're all equal to the unions, and everyone's doing their job. Moreover, the 12 million-dollar union has 40 branch organizations and has district councils. And over the past eight years, we've put 40 laws into this room, 2,000 proposals to protect people's interests. And we need to respect that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u41	Yes, please, Mikhailo Pavlovski, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u42	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Pavlovski, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block, Hmelničkina, the Party of the Fatherland. Dear friends, I want to draw attention to such deep foundations -- why? What's going on? This key word is permission. We know that the main task of trade unions is to achieve harmony in society. But the harmony is normal when it's achieved in the struggle. But there is another way to achieve harmony. We have today, we see that there is already an increase in oligarchs and power, and now this key word "licence" is the basis for the growth of the unions. And it's going to be an arrangement where there's not going to be a fight, but it's going to be all one thing, even though you're going to die, but you're going to vote for it. From. Why, then, do international trade organizations not recognize our trade unions? Because they don't fit the European standards that we want to go to, that's why. And that's why the sequence has to be that way. We're taking appropriate changes to the union law that Volintz is proposing, and they're also in line with the Constitutional Court's conclusions, European standards, and then we don't have to just make any changes. And everything is resolved automatically. So first we accept what Volintz is offering, and then we get rid of all the problems, because, well, in a political sense, we saw that the whole of Ukraine was supporting "Our Ukraine," because there were trades, and then it turns out that these trades aren't ours, not ours. That's it. Therefore, Your Honor, "Our Ukraine" has thus remained ours, and not our unions. So we need to act on this pattern. Once again, I say to the stenographer, to adopt changes to the laws of Volintz, and then the need for changes to conform to the government's proposal is no longer needed. We must, if we are to go to the European Union, all standards must be met. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u43	The review of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Professional Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees of Activities has been completed, and we will decide on the day of the vote. What? From the motives of the people’s MP Melniczuk, from which motive, please say.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u44	Mikhailo Melniczuk. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! That's what I'd like to do with a few words. The language goes here, and the controversy is who, and what, and the unions, and where they're on whose side they're on, and so on. But no one is reminded that today some 20 million villagers have been left out of factories that are unprotected. On this side, the one who's been introducing all the bills for eight years and discussed it here and so on, why are we leaving our peasants outside the unions now? They don't have any protection right now. Those who rent their land do whatever they want, and the peasant has no one to protect them. And second of all, I'm going to say that it's been two weeks since the price of bread in Ukraine, and I want to say, pocket or pocket trades, but today they're not going to be heard in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u45	Regarding the situation in the village with the bread -- we agreed, dear colleagues, that the committee is preparing a draft decision that we have to vote on Thursday on this issue. A draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State and Municipal Property Rental is being announced, as is the rapporteur for the Head of the National Property Fund, Mr. Chechtev Mikhailo Vasilovich, as well as the National Deputy of Ukraine, Seminouk Valentina Petrovna, head of the special control commission. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u46	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. An analysis of Ukraine’s current rent legislation and application practice shows that today a large number of issues need further settlement. This is especially true of settlement of matters, arrangement and termination of leases, procedures for the return of leased property, and payment of rent for the use of state and municipal property. The proposed bill is designed to improve the legal regulation of leases, to ensure the legality of the transfer of state and municipal property to rent, to increase rental payments and to preserve state and municipal property. The practical importance of the bill's provisions will be to further develop leases and to ensure implementation of the legislative provisions on the budget of the tasks of renting from the State budget to Ukraine's State budget. The bill provides for changes and additions to the Ukrainian Act on State and Municipal Rental. Rentors' leases of utility assets on the balance sheet of farm societies are being clarified. The form of renting offers by renting a lease is specified, which will allow the renter to choose a better lease. It is also appropriate to remove the existing restrictions on the rental of individuals exclusively by the subject of entrepreneurial activities. The proposed changes to part three of article 27 are aimed at securing, preserving and improving the efficiency of the use of state and municipal property, which is returned by the renter after the lease is completed. Thus, all proposed changes and additions are called upon to improve and organize the process of contracting both State and municipal leases and sub-credits, to strengthen control over their implementation and to ensure the preservation of state and municipal property. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. It has happened that Valentina Petrovna Seminyuk will also report a virtually similar law amending the Ukrainian Law on Renting State Property, and many of these laws are being incorporated. Well, it has a slightly broader bill, and I propose to adopt on the basis of a review, to support the ruling of the Supreme Council, which is made by the People's Deputies, members of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of the national economy, property and investment of Matthew and the King, the essence of which is to adopt, as a basis, the draft law of Ukraine amending the Law on the Rent of State and Municipal Property introduced by the Government, and the second paragraph to entrust the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of the National Economy, Property and Investments with a view to the proposed bill, taking into account the observations and proposals made by subjects of the law of the legislative initiative and the constructive provisions of the draft Law of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Law on Renting of State and Municipal Property, submitted by the People's Parliament to the Parliamentary Parliamentary Parliamentary of the Second State of the Republic and the Republic of Croatia on the draft Law of Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u47	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Please have a seat. Valentina Petrovna Seminouk is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u48	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! You are being reviewed by the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Renting State and Municipal Property, which includes the basic provisions of the same government bill and contains a number of new novelties and additions. The purpose of the bill in question is to improve the legal regulation of leases, primarily with regard to the strengthening of the control of State and municipal renters by using, on time and in full payment of rents and the use of renters of other terms of the contract. In addition, it is proposed to establish a clear regulation of the arrangements for renting, the procedure for renting state and utility property, and the return of the lease in the event of the termination of the lease. The need for such changes was due to the massive influence of property that remained in state or municipal property during privatization. It was not included in the statutory funds of host societies, but it remained on balance. These associations often allow abuse of such property to be leased, and this is especially the case with the committee meeting. With a view to preventing the abuse and clear harmonization of rental procedures, it is proposed that article 2 of the current bill be supplemented by recognition of the authorities that carry out State policy in the field of renting State and utility property, as well as wearing. introduce a new article that regulates the use of this property transferred to a rental. In order to engage a wide range of potential tenants, it is suggested that the existing restrictions on the renters of natural persons should be lifted only by the entities of entrepreneurial activity, that is, the renter may be a person of interest, not just one who is subject to entrepreneurial activity. This rule will help to correct the procedure for receiving us, the people’s deputies, the reception facilities. It is proposed to clarify the rent law of Ukraine regarding the right of enterprises to rent immovable property. It is said that the Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine as a result of parliamentary hearings on the issues of freedom of speech information, respect for the rule of law and security information of Ukraine was amended in September 2001 by the Rent Act. These changes allowed businesses the right to rent immovable property up to 200 square feet [200 sq m] without permission from the privatization authorities or local self - government authorities. Businesses began renting large areas of uninhabited premises without the permission of the relevant authorities, forming them with a number of contracts so that they did not exceed the 200 - square - foot [200 - sq m] limit. I remind you that it's not about real estate that's in state and municipal property. Thus, the rent for the use of such property would also add to the corresponding budgets. In order to eliminate the possibility of abuse in the rental of such immovable property, the project proposes that enterprises, without the permission of State privatization authorities and local self-government authorities, may be leasers of immovable property with a total area of up to 200 square metres per enterprise. A proposal is made to include in the essential terms of the lease agreement a provision for the types of arrangements for renting the obligations set out in the Civil Code and the arrangements for renting the lease. This will help to reduce the risk of default and to fill in the budget. It is proposed that the rule be laid down legislatively that the authorities that manage property in accordance with the Constitution and laws of Ukraine determine the proportions of the rent distribution between the budget of the corresponding level, the renter and the payer. It is established that part of the rent that comes to the State's privatisation authorities from the renters is used to finance the renter's functions. In the project, the issue of the use of a sub-priority of immovable property or other individually defined property in case it exceeds the rent. Changes are proposed to the arrangement for renting the value of indivisible improvements, if the renter permits it to do so. For the purpose of securing and improving the efficiency of the use of state and municipal property, proposals are made for the order of renting the property, leased when the lease is terminated. The adoption of the bill does not require additional financial costs. Moreover, this will increase the cost of renting and sub-ordinating state and municipal property to the corresponding budgets and will also increase the economic incentives for renting state and utility property in a greater adaptation of rent relations to market-based management conditions. I want to pay special attention to the fact that the Scientific and Experimental Department of the Supreme Council is more clearly supporting the bill that I have presented and saying that it is broader, more perfect. And so I propose that my bill be accepted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u49	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna, thank you. From the committee, please, Vladimir Josephovich Matviev, deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u50	The distinguished presiding, respected colleagues, the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of Peoples' Economy, Property and Investments reviewed the draft amendments to the Law on the Renting of Public Communal Property, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna. With a slight interruption, as the government project was submitted in autumn 2002 and the Seminouk colleague submitted a bill in January 2003 and, accordingly, the second draft was later concluded by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, and the second Bill of Deputies of Seminouk was considered somewhat later than the draft submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. Nevertheless, the Committee noted their similarity and some elements of alternativeity. The area of rental relations is constantly under the attention of both the Government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, it is logical to have almost simultaneously these two bills designed to further develop leases and leases and leases as a way of operating without changing the form of ownership of property. It should be said that the alternative I have previously noted is quite conditional. In fact, it is possible to refer to various revisions of the proposed applicable provisions of the Rent Act. Indeed, differences in authors'approaches to the same issues are minimal. Rather, they complement each other and the Rent Act. The Cabinet of Ministers, for example, proposed an amendment to article 8 of the Act to delete the 4th part of which the labour group of the economic society was given the preferred right to rent the property of the enterprise in which the society was established. The draft Semenyuk People's Deputy does not imply a change to this article. However, its bill proposes to amend articles 2 and 19 of the existing law on the list of entities implementing public policies in the area of rental relations and on the proportions of the allocation of rent between the respective budget of the lessor and the balance sheet. In general, our committee considers both bills to be worth the attention. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council noted that the bill could be regarded as more complete in terms of proposed changes and additions than governmental ones. However, since the Cabinet of Ministers bill has been reviewed and approved by the members of our committee earlier, we propose to take the bill proposed by the Government as a basis for taking into account the most interesting provisions of the law of respectable Valentina Petrovna in the drafting and drafting of the second reading bill. I request the distinguished deputies, on the day of the vote, to support the position of the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of Peoples' Economy, Property and Investment and to take a decision on this matter as members of the Committee. Although I personally believe that it would be possible, this is not a particular opinion of the committee or members of the committee, which could also be the basis for the draft law proposed by Valentin Petrovna Semenyuk. The commission is chaired by Vasillav H.A.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u51	Thank you, Vladimir Josephovich. We're working on a reduced procedure, two for, two against. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please. Next Seminoga. Are you "for" or "against"?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u52	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Country Solidarity Party, Our Ukraine. I was now asked by the People’s Deputy to say that the procedure. which is now being carried out, it is a disgrace, it is a violation of the Rules. I'm making a request to a national MP and joining her. With regard to the content of the State and Municipal Property Rental Bills. First of all, they are very important, these bills, honourable national MPs! Imagine that the national deputy Semenyuk rightly suggests that government policy in the area of rent, the State Property Fund of Ukraine, should be enforced. Today it is also being implemented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which defines the method of calculation, the order in which rents are used. And what is the methodology that you see from the results that the State Property Fund has so far, when millions of companies value the price of glass vans that they once donated to the natives. So do we today, Ukrainians. So almost all of Ukraine has been privatized. Well, I think there's still time. So, dear friends, comparing these two bills, I want to say that the broader bill of the People's Deputies of Semenyuk is, of course, a bill of the People's Deputies of Semenyuk, and it proposes to make changes to the article that I'm talking about, and to article 19 on the distribution and use of rent. There's a very big question here about the rent of this property that the renter receives, the size of it shouldn't exceed the rent of the renter, because the people who got the lease today are speculating in fact, and today most of the so-called scientific institutions and so forth are holding, and more so, the tennisization of this business is going on, because they're paying a couple of bets, so they're paying yes, and they're paying underground. So Semenyuk's bill is going to take this part out of the shadows and show that it is and settle. I'd like to stop why you can't take, let's say, government. I do not know why the people’s deputy, Matthew, was so supportive of Semenyuk, I think she should be supported more strongly. And I understand that he was bound by the committee, I understand that you were bound by the committee, but, of course, if you study the opinions of the scientific-expert administration, and Dub and Valkovsky worked very well on this analysis, it becomes clear that the proposals in the government are not progressive, especially in the amendments to article 19 of the Law on State and Municipal Property, a new paragraph under which the contract should have a certain type of enforcement assurance, as proposed as the matter is resolved in article 10. I conclude, honourable national MPs, I don't think there'll be any harm if we introduce, we'll adopt a bill in the first reading, Semenyuk. And what's positive about government is that we're going to complement it. And, on the contrary, some things that I, out of respect for Valentina Semenyuk, didn't want to criticize, let's throw it out of her project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u53	Anatoly Seminoga, next is Plastinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u54	Anatoly Seminoga, Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party, Block of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues! For our consideration today, there are two bills that amend the Law on State and Municipal Property Rental. The need for the adoption of these laws does not call into question its urgency. Because the proposed changes are primarily based on the practice of adopting effective legislation. In particular, these changes relate to the regulation of the arrangement and termination of leases, the procedure for the return of the leased property. Provision of rent payments for the use of property. Two bills, if you do the analysis, are really very similar. But the Semenyuk National MP's bill is broader, and more responding to the urgent needs of today. It regulates all the needs that are addressed in the rental - rental process. In particular, the bill proposes to extend the rents to individuals. Set up a competitive way of selecting a tenant, which is very important in today’s situation. What is very important is the questions that settle the current changes, the question of suborndance. And I think it's very important to note in this bill the order of compensation for the renter's properties of inseparable improvements. These bills are very similar. The government bill proposes the same changes, but there are significant differences between these bills. For example, the government bill proposes that an article be removed from the current legislation that gives priority to renting property to the labour groups. You can understand the government’s desire to improve the rent of government property. But I don't think it's necessary to improve this work by working groups. It's, in my opinion, immoral from a social point of view, it's unacceptable from an economic point of view, because, in my view, the market works to the full only when they're involved in this as large and wide as possible. I propose to adopt the Bill of People's Deputies of Seminouk as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u55	Vladimir Mikhailovich Zaplański, next Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u56	Dear fellow MPs, this bill is a bill that is the most modern, most necessary today. So from the faction, I want to express a few thoughts. First. Article 5 of this Act regulates the rental of state property that is on the balance sheet of households created in the process of privatization, corporateization and has not entered their statutory funds. The State Property Fund and its offices and representations are the tenants of the property. The issue of the 2041 property lease bill, which did not form part of the statutory funds of agricultural societies created in the privatization process, which is owned or owned by the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, remained unresolved. Such a situation resulted in improper use and premature destruction of such property. It's quite right to suggest that we include in the list of property rentals that have not entered the statutory funds of households created in the privatization process should be added "or corporations" but are on their balance sheet. The authorities authorized by the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and local self - government authorities are the tenants of this property. It's different. The proposed draft Act of Supplement to Article 6 on the Contracting of State Property by a Person for the Purpose of Entrepreneurship regulates more clearly the legal relationship between a State’s lease and a State’s property. At the same time, the following issues remain unresolved: the rental of property belonging to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea or held in communal property by natural persons for the purpose of using it for entrepreneurial activities, as well as the rental of state and municipal property by natural persons who are not subject to entrepreneurial activities: writers, artists, and so on. Third. The deletion of part six of article 9 on informing the labour force about the task of the entire property complex of their enterprise or structural unit in renting and the elimination of the overwhelming participation of members of the labour force in the rental of the listed objects will result in abuses, significant conflicts and social tensions in enterprises, as well as in contravention of part four of article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on State and Municipal Property Rental. It is important to deny the compatibility of rental contracts with current legislation and their unifications are reflected in the full scope of the essential terms of the lease agreement. The faction proposes to support Bill 2041 with further improvements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u57	Thank you. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u58	Dear colleagues! The question of government policy in the area of rent is extremely important. Regrettably, there is no reason to claim that State policy in the area of rent is effective. There are abuses in the transfer of property to a lease, in defined prices, in the determination of rent, in the use of rents, in the use of leases themselves, and therefore there is an urgent need to regulate the process by law and to make appropriate changes to the lease law, to improve the legislative field. The Semenyuk bill puts the problem in a broader context and helps solve these problems more fundamentally, so I also support the proposal that the Seminyuk bill can be adopted. I wouldn't say a government bill is an alternative. They complement each other in many ways, and I think on the second reading, you can take into account some of the moments of the government bill and make a joint bill. I don't want to waste any more time and repeat what's been said, but I'd like to emphasize that there's a clear lease procedure in the bill. This is about strengthening the renter’s control over the use of the objects, using the rent, the mechanism of rent payment is more clear both about the use of the lease and other issues that needed to be resolved. At the same time, in my view, when preparing the bill for second reading, changes will have to be made with regard to the assessment of rent, the assessment of the lease, the objective assessment and the rent, and the determination of its value. That's the first one. The second is the condition and quality of the rental object, since the rental process may worsen, its quality may worsen, and its quality will be lower. And the question arises how to control the change, the dynamics of the lease, the quality of the lease, and how to influence not to make it worse, but to improve some of the leases. The third is the question of responsibility. This question, by the way, is characteristic of all our laws, to clearly write out the mechanism of responsibility for violating these rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u59	Thank you. Final word, Seminouk Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u60	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, recently the Special Monitoring Commission for the participation and all representatives of factions and the Economic Policy Commission, a more faithful committee, held parliamentary hearings. I am the representative of the opposition, but the opposition is constructive. In the development of those observations that were made at the parliamentary hearings, we prepared, more faithfully, this bill and I thank the Scientific and Experimental Department, which supported these proposals and you for your constructive statements. But I want to say to you that today we need not only to criticize, but, first of all, to propose how to change legislation in the area of control, in terms of preserving state property, efficiency, and not just privatization. Because the policy that is being pursued today, "sale-sustain-suspecting" has to end. We need to think about keeping government property, making this property work for production, giving jobs, providing production, and then making the corresponding additions to our budget. And that's going to be both the pay and the social pay that our voters are expecting from us today. That is why I look forward to supporting my bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u61	Thank you. The bill is closed. The vote will take place on Thursday. A draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine is proposed for consideration with a view to stimulating concessional activities. Reported by the Deputy State Secretary of the Ministry of Economics and European Integration, Umanski Igor Ivanovich. I'd like to remind you of a reduced procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u62	Thank you. Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear national deputies, colleagues present. For your consideration, there's a bill that we've been trying to add to an investment activity tool as a concession to add several clauses that would create a more acceptable and attractive concessionaire for a significant tool to use. What is proposed for your consideration. These are the four basic positions that we propose to complement in the legislation of Ukraine. First of all, it's a simplification of procedures and a shorter deadline for a concession contest. Secondly, it's about conducting legislation that regulates concessional activity into the Earth Code. Thirdly, it is granted the concessionaire the right to pay concessionary payments only after the first income, circulation and concession has been transferred to the concession, or no later than six months after the entry into service of the object. And the fourth rule that we propose to adopt is to grant the right under the privatization legislation to concessionaires after the end of the concession contract when the decision to privatize this property is made to privatize, the primary right of that property in accordance with legislation. In our view, the changes we have seen will allow for a more acceptable and attractive instrument for involving investment in both state and municipal property. I'll only let myself have one little piece of information to give you. Since the adoption of the law on concessions on motor roads and so forth, only two public property objects have been placed in the concession. These are two sections of the Lviv-Krakiv road and Lviv-Broda road. The competition is now being concluded by the Donetsk district administration. Regrettably, for today there are no listed objects in the concession of willing brothers. In this regard, we ask for the support of the distinguished national deputies of the bill, which, to our conviction, will allow us to improve the situation of concessional activity in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u63	Have a seat, please. Associated with the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property, and investment, Matthew Vladimir Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u64	Respectable colleagues, the President-in-Office, the purpose of the bill that is proposed for consideration is indeed to further encourage concessional activities in Ukraine. With regard to the notion of “stimulating”, there can be no objection. We need to be stimulated. We are very sorry that this incentive is further, that is, our earlier efforts to promote concession development, as an investment attractor mechanism, have not contributed or contributed insufficiently to the intensification of investment processes in Ukraine. Nevertheless, our committee is optimistic about the future development of concessions, and we suggest that you pay attention to concession activities wherever possible. A bill submitted by the Government to amend certain Ukrainian laws to encourage concession activities should provide an alternative to the privatization system for attracting foreign and domestic investment in the country's economy. The offer by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of some simplifications in the competitive procedure and transfer of facilities to the concessionaire and the potential for the concessionaire to redeem the concessionaire after the expiry of the contract of concession is sufficiently interesting to take advantage of the opportunity to assess the current state of the problem and to make informed and correct decisions as a result of a thorough analysis. It should be noted that the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a number of comments to this bill, but generally suggests that it be adopted as a basis for further elaboration in the first reading. Our Committee also believes that it is possible to adopt the draft on first reading to analyse the overall situation of concessions, to bring the text of the bill in order in accordance with the legislation relating to concessions. Please support the Committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u65	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, next School
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u66	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Of course, we have seen one of the short, concise reports today. It seems to me that there are experienced young professionals in the Cabinet of Ministers who are likely to be in the future. So I would like to support the bill that is proposed, but only partially. Why partly? The bill does not answer the question, Why are only two objects today devoted to the concession of a country that is damaged? Well, you and I know that the first obstacle to concessions, investment and all in the state is, first of all, our President Leonid Kuchma, the second obstacle is our Prime Minister, the third obstacle is our government. I don't have any pretenses to report today. And this image is when Ukraine rolls from 7 to 137 and it's affected that we don't have any candidates for concessions there today. But it is very good that it is suggested that the deadline for consideration of the applicant’s application be reduced from 90 to 45 days. So bureaucracy is decreasing, it's decreasing from 120 to 90 days, the deadline for applying for the competition. I think it's a very good suggestion that we will then allow to privatize what was created in the implementation of the constitutional treaty or, if an improvement is made, at least 25 percent at the time of privatization. At the same time, I believe that changes to article 8 of the Act on Concessions, where it is proposed to exclude information from the list of mandatory information on the declaration of concessions to be published in open editions, because applicants can watch, co-ordinate whether they can work on these requirements or not, or can then openly conduct both privatization and a concession award or not. So this needs to be removed immediately, and the other is accepted, if that were not the case then it would be possible to say that the bill could immediately be adopted as a whole. This could still be done. In view of this, I would like us to use completely different things, things that should be used by Kabmin and the President, before this important activity of concessional activity and in order to stimulate it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u67	I can't see the school. Mikhailo Antonovich Pavlovski, please. Next nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u68	I thank Hennady Andryovich. Yulia Tymoshenko, Fatherland Party, Hmelnichtina. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention to a very simple truth. How to preserve the people so that they can develop. Well, a politically organized nation is a nation. So Western scientists point out that a nation, a nation, can develop only if it does not lose touch with its economy. So two postulates: total privatization is a loss of conditions for the development of the nation. Plus total privatization, if you add globalization without warning, it will be the death of a nation. So this death of the nation is also seen in this bill. This part of 7 to Article 5, which allows the object of the concession to buy everything together with the land, that is, to lose this property, to lose this economy. And on the other hand, if you look around the world again, the concession exists to put this object in a developed economy and then to work for it. And we put him on his feet and sold him. They lost the land, the right to influence, because it's not your property anymore, is it? You're not going to be on the road, and you're going to get bombed because it's not your property. Therefore, the honourable national deputies, the changes that apply to the simplification of the concession itself, this part can be accepted and supported, and here part seven to article five, is by no means acceptable. What's more, this part contradicts, the Bill of Julius Timoshenko is registered in the Supreme Council, and I am co-author, the amendments to the Earth Code, where we propose to take into account the experience of the developed countries, because we want to go to the European Union and the developed countries. And there is no developed country that allows the land to be sold to foreigners. That's what the weaklings do. So in coming out of this complex, this part of the seven just needs to be removed, and without that part you can adopt this law. And for that to be a guarantee, I recommend re-reading, because it changes the structure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u69	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. Next, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u70	Dear colleagues! If investments do not go into the economy of Ukraine, there is no way out of the crisis, there is no economic growth. It's about internal investment and external investment. Of course, first of all, it creates conditions for internal processes, the accumulation of capital, and, of course, for external investment, the combination of internal, external sources. A concession is a tool for involving investment resources in state and municipal property. So we are now facing the need to activate and stimulate concessional activities. In this regard, I join those who support the bill, believe that it should be accepted in the first reading, prepared for the second reading as soon as possible, and accepted in general, and it has a positive role to play. In my view, we need to support the proposal to bring concessional activity into line with the Earth Code. Just some of the other positions on this matter were spoken by my fellow MP, Pavlovsky. But if there is an Earth Code and it's already adopted, we're not going to talk and discuss how, and how, and it's imperfect in many ways, it's true, but if it's accepted, we need to bring concessional activity into line with the Earth Code. In addition, I support the need to simplify procedures and shorten the deadlines for competitions, which is also very important. In addition, the proposal to grant concessionaires the right to realize property under certain conditions and in their presence deserves support. [[of these conditions]] And finally it deserves to be supported by the offer to pay payments from the moment you get your first income, again under certain conditions. So this new law complex will create a more favourable concession climate and a more favourable investment climate. So I think this is a step in the right direction and this bill needs to be adopted. I would like to respond to the analysis by Deputy Carmazin of the reasons and obstacles involved in concessional and investment activities. Once, Napoleon came to the fortress, which had recently been taken into the enemy, and there was no salutation for him. He called the captain of the fortress and said, "Why wasn't there a salute?" He says, "That's 14 reasons. The first reason is we don't have any powder."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u71	You don't have to count it. It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u72	Napoleon said, "You don't have to count all the other reasons."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u73	Yes. Andrew Vasilovich School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u74	Thank you. Andrew Schlell. Yulia Timoshenko, Ukrainian National Assembly Well first of all, I would like to emphasize that, of course, I agree with the previous speaker, before he spoke, with Pavlovski, that we have no right to allow the concessionaire to be a priority in privatizing the property he took in concession. So let's imagine the situation, we took the company into concession, so I took Mr. Cherniak's company into concession. What is the point of exploiting it if it is exploited? I'm taking him to bankruptcy, I'm taking him to the state that it's already worth a penny, and I'm saying, "Why do you have such a bad business, why do you have such a bad business?" And I'm taking it. Thus, the law on the promotion of concessional activity in this situation is inappropriate. Instead of stimulating concessional activity, we need to regulate it, that is, depriving the concessionaire’s right to be a priority in private property purchases of the object he took into the concession. I'm not talking about having one pipe concession here, we're already, it's in everyone's mouth. The only thing Ukraine owns is a gas transport system, it's really a quality thing that makes profits, and it's already running a concession. In other words, the law on the promotion of concessions should regulate the relationship between those who accept concessions and those who give. Because this is the main and priority in this situation because of what is happening in the country. In particular, we know that concession is the cheapest way to privatize. It's cheap. You can nod your head, but that's what it really is and concessional activity has to be, it has to be regulated. [[It's one of the ways]] And when we talk about stimulation. We're saying she's working fine, but she needs to be strengthened. And I'm saying that concession is an intermediate state, and here we're going to increase the intermediate state, we don't need to stimulate it, we need to establish a normal relationship right now. You have to sell something, you sell. You have money to buy, you buy. And these intermediate relationships do not have the right to be deepened. And of course, I'm not going to be such a fatalist that this law is a threat to national security, but at least for the national economy, stimulating this activity is a threat. So I would like to point out that there is no point in supporting this bill. And there's a lot of talk about it, it's actually three pages of enough small text that regulates stimulating texts, so it's about amending some of the laws of Ukraine to stimulate constitutional activity. So I emphasize once again, and I'm not afraid to repeat that we don't have the right to stimulate what works for the damage. We have a legal right to regulate, that is, eliminate negatives, strengthen positives, and then we can talk about stimulating positive activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u75	Thank you. The question is closed. The vote will take place on Thursday. Draft laws amending the Banking and Banking Act are proposed for consideration. Report by Justice Minister Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u76	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill, which is now before you, is a fragment of the changes to the laws of Ukraine that have to deal with the issue of the execution of court decisions in our country. To date, we have a position in the Law on Enforcement, which provides for the right and ultimately the obligation of a public executioner if the debtor has funds in his accounts or other values, in securities, in banks, in other credit institutions, he is obliged to arrest them in the event that the debtor does not voluntarily execute the court’s decision. But at the same time, article 62 of the Banking and Banking Act, which regulates banking secrecy, does not allow a public executive to receive information about the availability of these accounts. And in such a legal situation, the decision of the court is, I'm not saying that it's impossible, but it's very complicated, because we're starting to ask those who have the right to do us a favor and give us the right information. So this is a very short, very simple and extremely understandable change, and if we want to ensure the execution of judicial decisions and the execution of them on time as provided for in the law, those who are obliged to do so should be given the opportunity to have information about the debtor’s material condition. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u77	Thank you. Have a seat, please. He will report to the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Kaputsin Viktor Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u78	Dear National Deputies! When our committee, the Committee on Finance and Banking discussed this issue, we usually came up with the idea that banking secrecy should be kept, but we understand that implementation should be carried out. And the situation in which the executive services are now, it can't be accepted, because it's really, really burdening them, it's putting a lot of pressure on them. That's why we consider it appropriate to support these complements, which actually help the executive to carry out their duties, but in our opinion, the formulation and interpretation of this article is quite broad, too wide and should be narrowed down, and to agree, in fact, with the conclusion of the scientific and expert administration that this paragraph, which is proposed, should be deleted from this supplement, and the words "and other organs and officials" should be deleted and left only "by decision of the court". This, in effect, preserves the bank’s secret and enables the executive service to carry out its duties. So our proposal is to support this bill in the first reading, and then in the second reading, to make these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u79	Thank you, Victor Vladimirovich. Have a seat, please. Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u80	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National MPs, are there many times when we have encountered, for example, by working on a commission, on a commission of inquiry for the Bank of Ukraine, with the infamous hiding from the people, from parliamentarians, even from the commission of inquiry, of whom the currency accounts belong? Who are the founders? And it is clear today that the government is proposing such changes -- to complete part of the first article of the Banks Act 62 and Banking Act with the following point: the authorities of the state executive branch to their written requirement for the enforcement of decisions of judges and other bodies, officials on the state of the accounts of a particular legal person or natural person, subject to entrepreneurial activity. I'll remind you that we have a paradoxical situation in an independent state. I am not jealous of the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, who has inherited a terrible situation in which he has tens of millions of decisions that have not been made. And today he needs to do them. And that's where the movement started. That's what I'm saying to Ukrainian citizens, who started the upheaval, came up with a new team, started doing something, started moving the problem. And thank God if the decision on behalf of Ukraine begins to be implemented. Because there's anecdotes. On the government committee, at a government meeting, it's a matter of decision-making. To enforce the judgment or not to do so? And the Legal Service of the Cabinet of Ministers writes "there is no basis for the execution of decisions." You know, it's a terrible shame. If I hadn't seen these citizen statements, if they hadn't come to me, I'd have answers like that. Ukraine’s decision, Ukraine’s name, is not being implemented. This is the authority of Ukraine. And today, the defined order of articles 62 -- "Discovery of the Bank's Secret" -- where the state of accounts, disclosure, and which is only allowed by the owner and excluded from the list of public authorities, has to be changed. In my view, the committee’s proposal is one of a kind of protection for those who have done wrong. So I think it would be possible to fully support Minust's proposal, and then we'll see how life will show. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u81	Is Mikhailo Antonovich Pavlovsky there? And, please, the faction of Yulia Tymoshenko. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u82	Pavlovski, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Hmeljničkina, the Party of the Fatherland. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, members of the government, national deputies, the rest of the journalists! Rare, yes. I want to draw attention to the fact that for the first time today, I clearly support the government's proposal. But since it is said that in the first reading, I would have narrowed down some powers on one side, and on the other hand I would have expanded. Here, where it's written "and other organs" and in the parentheses of "employees," I think this part has to be removed, because the others are not defined, the officials, it's possible to imagine that tomorrow the minister of any, it's an official person, let's say, internal affairs will be persecuted by one or the other opposition actors, will have the corresponding weights, so we have to remove it. And on the other hand, we've been so united here, or "physical persons who are entrepreneurs," that's to say they've been united. I would suggest that you write this way: "Subjects of entrepreneurial activity, individuals" because it could be a physical person and not a subject of entrepreneurial activity. Then we will cover the entire area of those who may have accounts that may be held accountable in accordance with the decisions of the court. Now, to be very brief and clear, I suggest that you take into account the suggestions that you have in first reading. And those MPs who say the hall will vote correctly for my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u83	Thank you, please, Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u84	Dear colleagues! We are faced with a dilemma, as an executive implementation, and how to keep the state secret. Banking can't be completely devoid of secrets. But it cannot or should not be so secretive as to cover up criminality as a public secret. So we are faced with the need to lift the curtain above the debtor’s assets. Otherwise, indeed, without it it is impossible to enforce the decisions of the courts, it is impossible to enforce enforcement. I share the view expressed by the Scientific and Experimental Authority that it is necessary to keep the bill only on the basis of a court decision and to remove, remove and other organs. If there is a court decision, a curtain should be lifted over the debtor’s assets. Otherwise it is not possible to execute the execution. So I would also like to express my support for the draft in the first reading, except for this amendment, which was referred to by the committee representative, Deputy Kaputsin. But with the opportunity and presence of the Minister of Justice here as the deputy mayor of the last summons, I had almost five districts in the Plain region in the district, and a lot of people came to me, the electorate, about the failure to comply with the court's decisions. First of all, you can't get a court order. Often these decisions are unobjective, unfair. And even if they are objective, just, they are not carried out, ignored. I wrote letters, I applied to the authorities, to the executives that I didn't do, it was impossible to get the court's decisions implemented. I've told you before, when I told an American that we don't have court decisions, he's got a jaw hanging, he's been looking at me for a long time, he couldn't understand, his eyes were running, how and how it might be that we don't have court decisions. So I think we need not only this issue of debtors, but in all other matters, to open up space before the execution of court decisions and severely punish for failing to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues! A review of the draft Act amending the Banking and Banking Act has been completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. A draft law amending the Ukrainian National Bank Act on the protection of funds in banking institutions is being announced for consideration. We have two reporters. Please, Bandurka Alexander Markovich. And prepare for the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Hapon Alexander Andriyovich. Please very briefly and essentially, and then you'll be like a co-reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u86	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The bill is very short. It proposes in the Ukrainian Act "Pro National Bank of Ukraine" to add in article 7, paragraph 4, the words "together with the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine lays down rules for the protection of money". Today both the National Bank and all other banking institutions define these rules on their own. [[commercial, including]] In recent times, and if you take it a year, these are dozens of crimes committed with the consequences of human sacrifice, major material damage, the capture of weapons. In those cases where this protection is done by people who are unprofessionally trained, not licensed security, we'll finally say what's called self-made, self-made. This is not contrary to the bill tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers 1051 and we simply ask for any kind of law to be passed: whether it's passed by me and the Bartki People's MP, or whether it's coming from the Cabinet of Ministers, to report to the Secretary of State of State of the Ministry, Alexander Andryovich Hapon. [[He's coming with me here.]] He doesn't need any extra money, he's just going to increase real protection where the specialists are going to work. First of all, to set up technical supervision, organizational assistance, and definitely physical. I'd be done with that. I would like to say that the committee and other committees that have considered this bill are supporting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u87	Thank you, Alexander Markovich. Please, Alexander Andriyovich Hapon. Have a seat, please. But we're already with you after 16 hours working on a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u88	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is introducing to you a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Bank of Ukraine. A similar bill was drafted by the National Deputies Bandurko Alexandr Markovich and Bartsiv Vasil Pavlovich. The content of these bills is to empower the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with the National Bank of Ukraine, to address security issues in banking institutions. Today, Ukraine's laws on the National Bank of Ukraine and on "banks and banking" provide for the sole mandate of the National Bank for the regulation of the protection of funds, technical requirements and the organization of the protection of the premises of banking institutions. Along with existing legislation on the IMF and on the competent authority, tasks have been put in place to protect all forms of property from criminal offenses. Under the IMF, there are appropriate units for the prevention of crime, for the prompt response to reports of their commission, and for the detection of these crimes. Worked and effective schemes are in place for the participation of all the services of our system in the removal or cessation of the attack on banking institutions. There is also a need to take into account the years-long positive experience of working together with the National Bank of Ukraine and the IMF in the area of comprehensive protection of banking institutions. Taking into account the long-standing cooperation between the National Bank of Ukraine and the IMF in the area of security and involvement by the National Bank of Ukraine of IMF professionals in the definition of requirements for technical strengthening and order of protection of commercial banks, it will certainly have a positive result, as confirmed by practice. I will point out that this is not about the mandatory protection of commercial banks by the Departments of State Security. The choice of the subject of a protective activity, whether a known entity or a private or a state entity, remains with the bank’s manager. This is about strengthening the protection of the bank’s staff, its customers, and its investors from possible criminal offenses by combining the efforts of bank professionals and the IMF in the area of strengthening the security of the banking system. The situation is quite complex. The IMF is struggling with the consequences and has no right to prevent criminal appearances by making proposals on the equipment of the premises and so forth. This bill is unnoticeable by the Ministry of Justice and supported by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u89	Thank you, Alexander Andryovich. Victor Volodymyrovich Kapusin, please, is the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, this law, from the point of view of its text, is very simple, in fact we change a few words in two articles. I'll be frank when we discussed it on the committee, I'm not going to hide it, the thoughts were divided, although most of the committee members, I think I remember, by a three-vote majority, although I may be wrong, most voted in favour of this law being adopted, recommending acceptance in the first reading, but I can't hide this fact that the thoughts on the committee were different. Disagreements were expressed. Including I cannot hide the fact that the National Bank was decisively opposed to this bill, and the idea was that it was actually an intervention in the affairs of the National Bank of Ukraine and the banking system. However, the committee voted by a majority to recommend the bill for first reading. And as a representative of the committee, I have to say what the committee has assigned me. So without going into the details of this bill, they were already expressed here and honored by the National MP, and by the distinguished representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, on behalf of the Committee, I suggest you consider it and accept it in the first reading, but consider these moments that I have just covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now we're going to talk, two for, two against. If there's no objection, let's continue our work for 15 minutes to complete the banking and banking issues. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, prepare for Seminozi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u92	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. At first glance, honourable national MPs, this is a very simple bill. I would like to point out that I repeat my bill to the government. Why didn't Alexander Markovich tell me about it, I don't know. I think he's a very tolerant person, but I understand that he's very professional today and he's given a good argument by the Secretary of State. I understand that he had no right or authority to withdraw the bill that the government had put forward, as perfectly identical in that bill that was passed by the Bandurka People's Deputy. But I think the first one was the national deputy of Bandurka. That's why I'm asking the Prime Minister. Is there nothing you can do to duplicate the national MP Bandurka? You don't have to. Make a deal with Alexander Markovich, he is a wise man, and believe that he is proposing the right law, although he is in danger in this bill. And the danger is that nowhere in the world is the police, as we call it, nor does the police itself set rules to protect the funds and assets of banks. It does not determine the technical condition of the bank’s premises. So we were talking about a monopoly. We want to prevent the monopoly. We're talking about what should be a competitive environment. But it is quite right that today Secretary of State Mr. Hapon said that the police are struggling with the consequences and cannot oblige them to comply with the general rules and then investigate these crimes. And so are undiscovered crimes in both Odessa and other cities, where representatives of banking institutions were attacked and then had troubles and spent public funds to somehow expose these crimes. So I think this bill will be accepted, and it will be very easy to implement if we adopt the bill that we talked about weapons today. Because then there will be no IMF monopoly, they will be able to give their own, those who have passed school, passed exams, passed exams to the Ministry, those who have served in the army, mentally normal, full people, and, please, absolutely, I am in favour of having the Ministry agree with Nazibank and lay down rules for the protection of these institutions so that we don't spend any extra public funds on investigating, investigating and uncovering these crimes. So I would like to consider, surprisingly, these issues together of these two laws, which have been dealt with in strange coincidences today. And I ask you to tell Mr. Yanukovic that it is important to see that MPs bring, if they are the first, well, not to duplicate, it does not honor the government. Although I don't have a claim to Hapon. Well, I know Yanukovich doesn't need it, but let his services tell him.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u93	People's MP Seminoga, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. You won't? Please, Michael Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u94	Thank you. Pavlovski, the faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland, Hmeljničina. I'm going to shorten every performance. I agree with what Karmazin said, but I want to draw attention to the fact that, in fact, there is a threat of monopoliesm, and so I propose to complement with this phrase literally, because the National Bank and the Ministry of Internal Affairs are going to produce the rules in common, so we need to point out what these rules are meant to lead to. So I suggest that these rules should be aimed at optimizing the cost of protection. Because if there's very large security costs, it's going to be an automatic increase in interest rates, an increase in other costs. So the bank won't do it at its own expense, it will do it at the expense of creditors, citizens of all those who invest in banks. So I suggest, for the first reading, and for the second reading, that I take into account my suggestion that these rules should be designed to optimize costs, to protect them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u95	Thank you. Andrew School, please. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u96	Andrew Schlell. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Ukrainian National Assembly Political Party I would like to stress, of course, that it is necessary to protect the funds that are in the banking institutions. But I would like to point out that there can be no monopoly in this matter. And we must say that it is simply impossible to impose any form of protection on these funds. We have to talk here when we build a normal democratic society, so there has to be normal competition. So it can't be good here, it's allowed to compete here, and that's it. Then both those and other laws, other priorities here competition can't be because there's the best structure that protects everyone -- it's not true. And I would say that I'm completely in solidarity with Karmazin, who's combined two, it would seem, not the same laws. That's all right. Then there is the Law of Protection. Here we have to take the monopoly away from the state for protection. Because when a state monopolises the protection of everything, it means that it primarily protects a citizen from freedom, freedom of speech, conscience, and so forth. We were already living in a state that protected us from everything. And that's why now that we've gone to the level where we can claim that there is a need for diversification of relations between the state and the citizen. And that's where it happens. We suggest that we don't have to monopolize funds into banks, we don't have to transfer everything to law enforcement. I'm sure there's a consensus here. There are no interested parties, there is only the truth. Its truth must be established in the hall of the higher legislature. So I'd like to call on both government representatives and members of the Supreme Council to take a position that allows us to optimize our relationship. I mean, competition in some areas is evil, but the absence of a monopoly is good. So there has to be a choice for a bank manager. Here, well, there can be no other proposition. So I would like to encourage that eventually the bills that are here are a bill from the MP and from the government. This is also not a very positive practice. There is a parliamentary right to draft laws, and there is a government. And if they came out in agreement, there would be no discussion of two bills, but of necessity and necessity. And it's very important that when all of this comes down to the need and the need, we always give the right answer. And I would urge that there be a harmonized bill and that we don't waste our time discussing each other, but we do have an optimisation. We have to. We've approved. We didn't have to. We turned it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u97	Please, Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a problem of protecting the funds in the banking institutions. It's a real problem, it needs to be solved. We know there are attacks, there are robberies. But the question is, how do we do this? I want to support those of my colleagues who here have talked about the need to optimize relations between the National Bank, the banking institutions, the State Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Not by chance does the National Bank consider this to be an intervention in its internal affairs. So to eliminate these contradictions, we need to work together to shape the conditions under which these issues will be resolved. So you can't force the National Bank, the banking institutions model, the decision algorithm, but you can do it together. If so, then the law will work and have an effect. It is known that a few years ago there was a conflict between banks and the State Security Service. The State Security Service has raised tariffs on these services, and banks have in fact refused to do so. In order to avoid conflict, then, we need to work together to develop the terms and conditions for the protection of funds in banking institutions. On the one hand, this is not to be ignored, and on the other hand, it cannot be forcibly done, although perhaps there must be some element of pressure, because there are institutions that don't want to protect these funds at all, and then when they're robbed, there are a lot of problems. So I think the key word here is common rules, common interest and common conditions. If this is done, the law will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u99	Yes, Your Honor, the consideration of the draft law amending the Ukrainian National Bank Act on the Protection of Funds in Banking Institutions has been completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. Dear colleagues! Why don't we have another draft of the law? We agreed to continue our work for 15 minutes, so we still have 10 minutes. Let's see. If not, yes. Draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws on opening and operating bank accounts. Please, from the National Bank. Is there no representative? Oh, please. Deputy Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Pavlov Mikolaiovich. Very short. _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ I'll try. Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, there is a law that we want to remove a number of unagreed provisions in the laws on the transfer and closing of accounts by subjects, as well as their functioning. First. The general requirements for transmission are laid down. The information shall be provided only to the authorities of the State tax administration. The second question. Only the following subjects are given. These are legal persons, as well as individuals who are subject to entrepreneurial activity. Next. State tax administrations have established the right to impose fines on entities that have not provided such information. Next. To financial institutions that have started expensive transactions without waiting for documentary confirmation of the receipt of accounts as such. Next. The requirements for opening and closing are the correspondent accounts of commercial banks, but they are released from the blockage to the report because these accounts have transactions that are already accounted for. And the next. A coalition of laws on banks and banking activities of 47 articles and 7 articles of the law on payment systems and remittances in Ukraine regarding the opening of deposit accounts by a bank to a bank. And the next. Accordingly, these accounts will not be reported to the State Tax Service, because they don't have transactions from those accounts -- they just go back, and these accounts are very urgent, there's no way to report because they don't make sense as such. If we accept these changes with you. So we're going to take down the coalition in these five laws that I told you we're going to improve both the operation and customer service accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u100	Thank you. Please have a seat. The correspondent is the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance, the banking business of Victor Volodymyrovich Kapusin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u101	Dear national deputies, the deputy head of government of the National Bank, Mr. Senic, explained in detail all these five changes, so there is no point in repeating them. I mean, this law is progressive, it's right, it eliminates the differences that are in some of our laws. which we have already accepted eliminates some of the absurd things from the banking system's point of view, such as a message to the tax authorities about the opening of the deposit account that is being opened. For example, for one night, and some other things that are totally unacceptable. So it's right, it's progressive, it's going in the right direction. The committee was unanimously accepted. And I recommend, on behalf of the committee, that we recommend that we accept it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u102	Thank you. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. Do you have anything on this subject, an observation, an offer? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u103	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Various bills have been tabled by the National Bank. At the same time, I want to say that this bill can be supported. Such great underwater currents that would be behind this, that we can always watch, that would damage the economy or the independence of the state, I don't see yet. I see, in fact, what I have seen is that, in paragraph 7.1.2 of the law on payment systems and remittances in Ukraine, which is in article 3 of this bill, it's different from that given to us in that table, which is given to all the people's deputies, the bills. And it's wrong, it's not the way to define the current account, so it's different. And it's better written in a table. This is the third strip of our table. Therefore, I believe that this bill can be adopted, including those amendments to the Law on State Taxation, where words are added to financial institutions as well as to financial institutions and to the taxpayer of the entity’s business activity, except for the bank. And I think that you can accept this bill, and I think the committee did the right thing, that it unanimously supported the adoption of this act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u104	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u105	The adoption of this bill will help to remove the conflicts that took place in opening and operating bank accounts in connection with the adoption of different laws, with changes in certain conditions, including banking policies. I support his acceptance in the first reading. It is usually a technical, technological law that constructs mechanisms for the discovery and operation of bank accounts. It's very delicate matter, fine matter. And I think it's all done right, and this law needs to be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u106	Dear colleagues, the draft law on amending some of Ukraine’s laws on opening and operating bank accounts has been completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. What's another one? There's three of them. You mean 1357, 2468, 3089. We will no longer be able to discuss them today. Well, there's no objection to discussing these bills yet? Yes, please, who's going to report? Are you going to report? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u107	Dear friends, these three laws that are now being passed for your consideration are of the same type, at least two of the first ones. They refer to such things as the return of foreign exchange earnings from exports. It is proposed that the Cukob deputies increase the period of return of foreign exchange from the export of light industry from 90 days to 180 days, and that the Suhigo deputy also increase the time of return from the export of light industry to 180 days, but also with regard to the construction of machinery. A machine-building industry. When the committee considered the issue, first of all, this bill raised a question, and why not include, for example, courts and food industries, or agrarians, or transportation, or some other matter? Why would these two areas have such privileges? In our opinion, and this thought was also absolutely unanimous, was expressed at a committee meeting. The idea was that these bills should be rejected on grounds that no branch should have any right to return on terms of return. At the same time, however, it was suggested that we did not know exactly what normal terms were needed to return the foreign exchange proceeds from the export of products. Maybe it's 90 days, maybe 180, maybe 360, maybe some other term. And there was a proposal for the National Bank of Ukraine to take a closer look at this issue and to put it to a committee meeting without regard to any sector, rather than to the whole economy. So the committee's proposal is to reject these two bills from these considerations. As for the third bill, this is about the fact that the National Bank of Ukraine can grant permission to extend the terms of return to foreign exchange under force majeure. We've considered this issue and decided that it's right, that it's right, because there may be different force majeure situations when the performance of contracts is impossible, and when the return of the proceeds in 90 days is impossible precisely for these reasons. The committee therefore recommends the adoption of the third draft in the first reading, rejecting the first two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u108	Yes. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yuri Anatolyevich, can you get out of here or will you be here? Please. Very briefly, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u109	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the national deputy Kaputsin has made a very professional report. No branch should have privileges. There must be one order for everyone to return the currency and the rules for the game should be exactly the same for everyone. That's why Kukoba Bill 1357, and Bill 2468 Jaroslav Suhogo, he has here, if there's an expert in pharmaceuticals, it's pure, open-ended lobbying. The truth of domestic production. So here's the engineering production of domestic production. Obviously, there is a problem. And I would ask the committee on behalf of Mr. Kaputsin today to work on this problem. Because there is a problem. We've made crazy rules, we can't sell our firms quickly, and we can't get our money back. And that's a serious problem. But to adopt the rules of the game for each field, it's simple, it's going to be a crime. So I think we need to make a bill that's easy to simplify or increase, and just say that it's actual production or at least six months. We need not kill him for export, as the Tax Administration has already killed this export. She's already destroyed it. You know no one wants to work for export anymore. This criminal activity is called because they don't pay VAT, they don't return VAT. And about the National Bank's proposals. The National Bank's proposals are equally surprising, but they deserve support as the adoption of the bill in the first reading. And this will enable, indeed, to address the problems of optimizing the export-import relations of Ukrainian residents with foreign counterparties and to increase the stability of external economic accounts. I would even like to have a deadline for the Committee on Economic Policy, Finance and Banking. And yet consider the order of calculation and the implementation of article 1 of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u110	Thank you, Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, please. Turn on the microphone from the spot, Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u111	Dear colleagues! The way in which accounts are made in a foreign currency should contribute to the growth of our exports to a positive balance of payments and to the stability of our exports. I think that's exactly what this goal is in view of the drafters of the bill. They're all trying to solve the problem. I think the profile committee came to the right conclusion. The National Bank's bill can be adopted in the first reading. And when preparing for the second reading, consider the proposals made by the deputies. and Dry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-01-m1.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Settlements in Foreign Currency has been completed. The decision will be made on the day of the vote, resulting from the discussion. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. Questions will be discussed on Wednesday’s schedule. Thanks for the job.
