ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:04]] Registered -431 There were 431 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, allow me to make an announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sulkovský Pavel Gnatovič, from the MP's faction "Our Ukraine" and its membership in the MP's "Region of Ukraine". Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations we have 30 minutes to announce requests, statements, messages and proposals by national MPs. People's deputies, please. Dear colleagues, I ask you to listen carefully to my address to you. People's deputies please sign up for statements, messages and suggestions in the secretariat, not here. Please don't apply to me, just write it down. In the meantime, if there's no objection, I'll call it in. Please sign up for 30 minutes. Let's take a look at the board. So, then, perhaps you would like to ask questions as they prepare for the presentations? Yeah? I'll call in the questions, and then there'll be 30 minutes. Is there no objection? Thank you. Requests were made by Ukrainian national deputies Vladimir Yeshchenka to Prime Minister Janukovič on the occasion of the many years of gravity that took place around the demolition of the old house on the private property rights of the citizen of Bukina on the street of Ilina, 483, and the granting of housing for her. [[Cherkasi City]] I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:48]] For 105 Decision taken. Anatolia Ástovajka to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine for the continuation of the ferry route of the suburban trains to the station of Vuglegirsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:16]] For 109 Decision taken. Valentina Matvieva to the President of Ukraine, in connection with the timely consideration of the statement by Scherbán Volodymyr Petrovich, stated that he would cease his mandate as head of the Suma District State Administration in connection with his being in line with the position of the National Deputy of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:55]] For-191 Supported. I am now voting on this request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:07:21]] For 204 The decision is not taken. Sergia Cicchanov to the President of Ukraine for the observance of the Constitution of Ukraine when he was appointed Minister of Transport of Ukraine for the duties of the Director - General of the State Administration of Railway Transport of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:55]] For-68 Not supported. Igor Greeniv to the President of Ukraine on ensuring the legality and transparency of information on money laundering at the Tetra-Pac for the promotion of state officials. [[Sweden]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:08:29]] For-170. Decision taken. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. That's the question, Igor Greeneve. [[10:08:54]] For-189 The decision is not taken. People's Deputies Groups: Vladimir Bondarenko, Kosinov, Dry to the President of Ukraine on Mintrans' plans to import near-urban aircraft into Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:09:28]] For 272 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:09:51]] For-286 Decision taken. Andrew School to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the legislative solution to the extension of the lease to the Bank of Ukraine by the Sambi office of Privatbank. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:22]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Sergia Slabenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the State’s debt to enterprises for phonographing the population’s income categories. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:51]] For-94 Decision taken. Sergia Ivanova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of a spirit plant based on the Azov liquor plant of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:19]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Alexander Goodima to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the compliance of the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine on the construction of permanent power installations in the western border of Ukraine with the position of the Programme of Action of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in part of the integration of Ukrainian energy into the energy sector of the European Union. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:56]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Julius Timoshenko and Michael Pavlovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for failing to implement the government's decision to complete the construction of the Lisovod-Alexandrovka Gas pipeline of the Hmeljna District. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:28]] For-144 Decision taken. Bogdan Kostinuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation that resulted in the formation of the Prycarpathian Bureau of Burial Works in the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:56]] For-96 Decision taken. Lesia Tanjuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations of legislation relating to compensation payments and benefits to former repressive citizens. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:25]] For-100 Decision taken. Ivan Tomić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation in which the farm “Parastkovsky” of the Ternopil Institute of Agricultural Production was investigated. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:54]] For 111 Decision taken. Alexander Goodima to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the deficit of forms of foreign passports of Ukrainian citizens. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:21]] For 118 Decision taken. Julius Timoshenko and Mikhail Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the gasification of the villages of Dobropil and the New March of the region of Kharkiv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:50]] For 116 Decision taken. Sergia Cicchanova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purpose of putting Ukraine's transport minister under the responsibilities of the Director-General of “Uksalznicki”. I'll bet you a vote on the request. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:15:19]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Leukka Lukyanka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation of the national television channel UT-2 in state ownership. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:48]] For-142 Decision taken. Igora Jeremeyeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the ecologically dangerous situation in the village of Manievich Volinsk, in connection with the delay in the construction of cleaning facilities for the colony from the execution of sentences No. 42. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:18]] For-125 Decision taken. Valentina Savitsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the first-line payment to persons with disabilities of war and the work of the first group of their savings in institutions of former savings of the USSR. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:49]] For-129 Decision taken. Mikoli Shershuna to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on how to settle the tax system for the added value of selling land. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:19]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Romana Tkacha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations by the Head of the State Committee of Land Resources of the rules of law. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:47]] For 1052 Decision taken. Vladimir Onischuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of the interests of the national radio engineer in the Odessa region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:15]] For 1052 Decision taken. Mikhail Radionova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the legality of the liquidation of the Ministry of Economics and on the European integration of the State Enterprise Odessa outlandishtrans. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:45.]] For-103 Decision taken. Boris Olijnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the respect for the memory of the poet, the proponent of the independence of Ukraine, Vasil Simonek, in the Lubensky region in Poltavščina. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:15.]] For 190 Decision taken. Bogdan Kostinuk and Roman Tkač to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the basis of the inadequacy of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' decree on the order of reckoning with rehabilitated Ukrainian citizens on the rehabilitation of victims of political repression in Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:48]] For 101 Decision taken. Stanislava Nikolayenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inclusion of gasification in the training and training centre of the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences of Ukraine in the list of sites funded by centralised capital investments. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:23]] For-140. Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, in connection with the failure to comply with the requirements of current legislation on the prevention and response to emergency situations, the protection of people's lives on water, the elimination of oil spills and the protection of the Black and Azov Seas against pollution. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:01]] For-162 Decision taken. Raisy of Richterov to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the imbalance in the pay of health workers. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:28]] For 176 Decision taken. Vassil Draga to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, for the conduct of a pension census for former heads of ministries and departments. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:56]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Avramenka to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine regarding the transfer to the local authorities of the right to license the city’s passenger transport. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:23]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Vasil Nadaga to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the introduction of the methodology for the calculation of the sums of monthly insurance payments to victims of an accident in production in accordance with the Ukrainian Act "On a General Compulsory State Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Disease". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:01]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Stanislava Gurenk to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the failure of 1,800 court decisions and the inaction of the state executive service of the Ivankow region of the Kyiv region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:30.]] For the 180. Decision taken. Alexander Turkinov to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the provision of information regarding the granting of licences for the possession and carrying of short - standing firearms. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:01]] For 114 Decision taken. Leukka Lukyanka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the introduction of service documentation in the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in accordance with article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:32]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Michael Melniczuk to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, for the purpose of directing the head of the Chernobyl government to set up in the area of district health authorities. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:05]] For-154 Decision taken. Petra Savasuka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the violation of the constitutional rights of Zaporozhye residents to participate in the election of the city’s head because of the absence of passport forms. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:37]] For-93 Decision taken. Igor Alekseyev to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine regarding the cost of sending the Ukrainian Special Battalion to the State of Kuwait and their compensation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:09]] For the 180. Decision taken. Groups of Ukrainian National Deputies - Baloga, Ivanocho, Matvijčuk, Mihović - to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine for the reconstruction of the capital repair of the railway station and station in Mukachevo. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. [[10:26:44]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Andrija Polita and Igor Alekseyev to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for failure to comply with the decisions of the Kyrovograd Regional Economic Court. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:17]] For 109 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine for default on the salaries of the Lukyanko family during the restructuring of agricultural enterprises in the village of Nova Praha Kyrovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:49]] For-99 Decision taken. Leukka Lukyanenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for giving a legal assessment of the application of ten Ukrainian citizens of Crimean Tatar nationality to the Hague International Court of Justice. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:20]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Andrew School to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation into the cover-up of a police officer’s crime, a pedestrian in Lviv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:50]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the formal approach of the Kyrovograd Regional Public Administration and the Lightwater Interstate Prosecutor's Office to the protection of property rights of members of the collective agricultural fish industry in the name of Petrovsky Kirovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:30.]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Victor Yushchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of constitutional housing rights to 84 families who live in a dormitory of a former state-owned company, the “Umanian Canned Factory”. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:01]] For 184 Decision taken. Mikoli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the publication by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine of information on the violation and conduct of criminal investigations on the fact that critical material has been published in the media at the address of the President of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:36]] For 171 Decision taken. Mikli Kravchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal decision of the Kyiv City Council regarding the temporary delay of license plates and the forced movement of vehicles in violation of parking rules. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:31:09]] For-146 Decision taken. Vladimir Mazurenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violating the leadership of the Odessa Radio Television Broadcasting Centre in connection with the suspension of the radio broadcasting company Riakinfo on the seventh channel in Odessa, which has the appropriate license and contract. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:31:47]] For-160. Decision taken. Stéphane Clouds to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the delay in issuing State acts on the right of private property to land in a number of villages in the region of Alexandria. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:32:21]] For-75 The decision is not taken. People's Deputies Groups: Immortal, Catherinechuk, Ignatenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the illegal use of Ukrainian military technology and property. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:32:49]] For 111 Decision taken. Anatolia Átnajka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, to the head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine on the facts of the violation of Ukrainian law by foreign companies who are non-residents of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:33:20]] For 109 Decision taken. Dmitry Rudzikowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of illegal actions involving the accumulation of shares of the Biotzerkowska Autobaza No. 7. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:33:47]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Groups of National Deputies: Karmazin, Steckov, Cloud to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Committee on Land Resources of Ukraine on Abuses of Service, Exceeding the Service Powers of Other Violations of the Land Law of Ukraine by Individual Officials of the Lviv District Administration and the Lviv City Council. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:34:28]] For 114 Decision taken. Valery Lebedivsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of the conditions of the Demos business, which has resulted in damage to the state in a particularly large way. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:34:56]] For-93 Decision taken. Sergey Pravdenka to the head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service for failure to execute the Chopper Customs rulings of the Uzhgrad District District Court concerning the Eurokar Society. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:35:28]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Michael Bobkin to the head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service for the violation by officials of regional customs officials of the requirements of applicable legislation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:35:55]] For-48 The decision is not taken. People's Deputies Groups: Černovecki, Grač, Orobec, Samofalov, Kachur and others, to the head of the State Customs Service on the existence in Ukraine of the shadow sector of the implementation of the imported goods of light industry. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:36:29]] For-141 Decision taken. Peter Simonenck to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine regarding the legality of the stockpiling and disposal by the National Bank of Ukraine after 26 August 1991. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:37:02]] For - 103 Decision taken. Synchenka to the Head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on Antimonopoly Legislation Violations in the Luhansk Region in the performance of the executive functions related to their profits. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:37:34]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Mikoli Tomenka to the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the verification of information on the violation by the Ukrainian National Deputy Victor Pinchuk of antimonopoly restrictions on the establishment of a number of television companies and the newspaper Facts and Comments. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:38:14]] For 172 Decision taken. How Can I Help My Children? 3 / 8 3 The Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and at the request of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine, I give him the floor to speak on his assessment of the answers to his parliamentary requests. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, our constituents! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, while we have been working for a year, you and I have never exercised our sacred right as laid down in the Rules in article 8.3. 3, that if a national MP receives several answers that do not satisfy him, he has the right to take five minutes to reply. And if he is supported, his problems can be discussed. I want to draw your attention to a typical phenomenon today, which is obviously felt by every MP -- all of our questions that we're doing very much, and that's good, but we're actually getting formal discounts, which are absolutely not changing anything in our lives. I just want to remind you that I've come to the Minister of Internal Affairs with my parliamentary request that we have today a national-wide colossal, simple problem that has grown on the naked city. In a civilized state, what does it mean to print passport forms? But today's Ukrainian society, and this is where many deputies have also been asking their questions, because it's not just, let's say, my parliamentary pain, we have colossal lines today. People can't get a regular Ukrainian passport. Article 33 of the Constitution, he Musiak knows this article very well, which guarantees every citizen of Ukraine free movement, free change of seats, people cannot do it just because they lack the forms of ordinary Ukrainian passports. I'm not talking about passports abroad anymore. I got an answer from Smyrnov, who says, "At the request of the Department of State for Citizenship, a decision has been made by the management of the Ukrainian polygraph combine and has already been unloaded for the needs of the territorial authorities and the departments of half a million passport forms. This will certainly allow for the first decade of January 2003 to produce all the materials provided for exchange." I'd like to look Minister Smyrnov's eyes right now and say straight through: you lied to both the MPs, and you lied to the Supreme Council. Because the queues, the people who are still in turn in September, do not have a passport until today. Then I get a second answer, once again, from the audience, he was here recently, Cornia, deputy secretary of state. He suits me the same way. Once again, I am addressing the Minister of Internal Affairs: if you have really unloaded these passports, then get to the bottom of what's going on. Why does the OVER of today deliberately create a queue, because I have the facts that people, as it were, of a higher category, can get a passport on the second, on the third day. And in my district, where people survive because they can go to Poland and make some money, they don't give them those passports on purpose. It's a terrible violation of human rights, and I'm just demanding and I think that you will support me in this, to bring the system into this right now, because otherwise we dropped Ukraine to 37-38 when no one could leave the village and was tied to it. Today we have exactly that situation. I thank you, honourable deputies, and you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, for your support, and I am convinced that if there is no order in the near future, let us discuss this question, this is our right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u3	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to the speeches with statements, petitions, information from the National Deputies. Please give us the names of the national deputies who have signed up for the performance. 30 minutes. Yes, National Deputy Gumenjuk, faction of our Ukraine, prepare for Eshchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u4	I'd like a word with the People's Deputy Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u5	Please, Stoyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u6	Thank you. John Stoyko, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. A statement by the People's Movement of Ukraine concerning the deportation of the Crimean Tatar people. "May 18, 2003, is 59 years old from the date of the violent deportation of the Crimean Tatar people from their historic homeland, Crimea. A month later, Bulgarians, Armenians, and Greeks were deported from Crimea. Earlier, in 1941 the Germans were forcibly evicted from the peninsula. These crimes of the Communist regime have been a powerful testimony to the inhumanity of the steel system, which has consistently been committed to the true genocide of the nations on one sixth of the earth’s land. In human history, few examples of such cruel, cynical, and ruthless treatment of the entire nation on its own earth have shown. This was the implementation of the national policy of Bolshevikism. It took 45 years for repressive acts against entire peoples who had been forcibly displaced to be declared illegal and criminal. This was made possible by an active, long - standing fight waged by Crimean Tatars for the restoration of the rights of fundamental rights forcibly evicted from their historic homeland. In this fight, Crimecatarian national movement activists have always found support from representatives of the Ukrainian-national liberation movement. Today, an independent Ukraine restores historical justice -- returns the deported and their children, their grandchildren to their homeland, gives them equal rights as citizens of the Ukrainian State, allocates resources to overturn those who have returned. Sadly, though, what the Ukrainian authorities are doing today is not enough for the full rehabilitation of the Crimean Tatar people. Other former republics of the Soviet Union have virtually removed the matter, and the Russian Federation, after declaring itself the successor of the Soviet Union, is demonstrating that it ignores all the problems involved. The National Movement of Ukraine has always advocated and advocated the full restoration of the rights of the Crimean Tatar people in the Ukrainian State in forms that would suit both the interests of the Crimean Tatars themselves and the interests of the entire Ukrainian people. This is the principle established in Ukraine’s struggle for independence by Ukraine’s hero, the founder, and the head of Ukraine’s People’s Movement, Viacheslav Cnervol. We will continue to be consistent in our support for the development of the Crimean Tatar people and in our cooperation with their representative body, Majlis. Members of the People's Movement of Ukraine, along with the National Deputies of the faction "Our Ukraine" will be working on the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the 60th anniversary of the tragic date of deportation of the relevant laws on the restoration of the rights of the Crimean Tatar people and persons of other nationalities who have been forcibly evicted from the territory of Ukraine. We believe that the historical memory of bloody calamities that both Ukrainians and deported peoples and ethnic minorities have experienced should warn all of us from the perplexity or inconsiderate attempts to resuscitate the Soviet past and the barbaric traditions of the disappearing empire. Moreover, to the non-imperistic forces of the chauvinist circles of modern Russia. In the Ukrainian society, there is a democratic system to remain forever, an independent respect for the representatives of all ethnic groups and religions. The victims of violent deportations and the political repression of the Communist regime are forever remembered. Glory be to Ukraine!"
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u7	Thank you. Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction. Get Terran ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u8	The Communist faction. Please pass the word to Alexander the Pigeon, the faction of the Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u9	Alexander Dove, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u10	Alexander Dove, Communist faction. It's a faction statement. “On May 9, 2003, on the bright day of the celebration of the memory of the fallen in the fight against fascism during the Great War of the country, in Lviv, the representatives of the parties of the Council, Unity and the so-called "Galician Choice" were given a disgraceful provocation. During the 13th year of independence, there were political forces that openly stated that they did not recognize the celebration of the Great Victory, that holy one is considered, without exaggeration, for the tens of millions of our fellow citizens the day the beginning of the occupation of Ukraine, and the liberation soldiers the invaders. They demanded that this public holiday be cancelled. Moreover, it was stated that they would not allow the veterans of the Great Motherland, representatives of public organizations and left political party flowers to rest on the tombs of fallen heroes in the Martian field in Lviv. As a result, the memorial was marked by fierce clashes between veterans and the right - hand nationalist forces. Orders, wreaths, red flags of victory, flowers were torn out of their hands. In this situation, law enforcement agencies, the police sided with the neo - Nazi forces, joined in illegal activities, and prevented citizens from exercising their constitutional rights. In fact, all of Ukraine, the whole world has witnessed neophasism. By cynically ignoring moral and public values, these forces, which are more vocal than anyone else, are calling for harmony, unity, the compatriotship of Ukraine, have actually stood up for the inflaming of national enmity, for the disunity and disunity of the state. That's no surprise, because that's what they're all about, they've been betraying and selling Ukraine to Kaiser, they've been betraying and selling Ukraine to Pilsutski, they've been betraying and selling Ukraine to Hitler, they've been betraying and selling Ukraine to Americans. Today, they decided to sell Ukraine to the criminal clans behind the ruling regime. Their actions are objectively divided into divisions of opposition. The Communist Party faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine vehemently condemns the brutal provocation committed by the nationalist forces in Lviv. We claim that we will not allow the memory and the feat of the fallen to be disgraced in the years of the Great Homeland War. We have defended and upheld the legitimate rights of the living veterans of this war. We appeal to the authorities of the State, the Attorney General’s Office, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Internal Affairs to conduct an objective investigation into the criminal activities of both individuals and the political forces behind them. Take all necessary measures to prevent the revival of neo - Nazism in Ukraine. The real continuation of this policy is the deliberate distortion and falsification of Soviet history. We bow our heads to the memory of the victims of hunger, and I emphasize hunger, not hunger. However, we feel that today it is more appropriate and more true to talk about the current famine in Ukraine caused by the rule of law. That is why the faction will not participate in today’s political farce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u11	Victor Terrence, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Get ready for Boris Oliynick.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u12	I am very much asking you to give the word to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u13	Alexander Turchinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u14	Dear National Deputies! Despite the very short period of time left to dominate Kuchmi and his surroundings, the authorities remain deceitful and criminal. Hiding from the responsibility that is irreversible, the Attorney General's Office, the media, which is now subordinated to the President's environment, continue to compromise and destroy the opposition and its leaders. Last week, we witnessed a hundredth anniversary statement by Attorney General Piscoon concerning the compromising of the leader of our bloc, Yulia Timoshenko. The writer cynically explained that the cases previously closed by the courts were fabricated by his forerunner Potekko, and his cases were not closed by the courts. Yesterday, honorary colleagues, the three judges of the Kyiv Court of Appeal closed all the cases fabricated by the Attorney General in charge of Piscoon against the leader of our bloc, Yulia Timoshenko, her family and former employees. According to the court’s ruling, all illegally arrested Ukrainian citizens are subject to immediate release. The actions of the Attorney General are illegal and criminal. This is the complete fiasco of Piscuna and the Sandscan Authority, which has recently been transformed into the Attorney General’s Office of Ukraine. But this morning in the Supreme Court, phones are being cut off, the President's Administration is nervous, and he wants to hide from the responsibility of the Sands. They impertinently demand that the Supreme Court’s management make an unprecedented decision and stop the ruling of the Court of Appeal without delay. Dear colleagues! The faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, hopes that judges of the Supreme Court will have sufficient dignity to resist provocation and to refrain from ordering criminals. The faction of our bloc requires the immediate resignation of Attorney General Piscoon and his personal responsibility for crimes and provocations against Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u15	Yes, Boris Ilchi is referring his word to Vladimir Puzakov from the faction of Communists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u16	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština As a national deputy, I was approached by the residents of the villages of Yakimovka and the Malovsky region of Novo Wozniesskie, who have been visiting these facilities for the third time. In that case, I'm already asking a third MP. But there's no movement. Instead of admitting responsibility for crimes committed against the people, local authorities make false statements at all facilities about the satisfactory state of affairs. Consider, for example, the answer given by the deputy head of the Shirovoglana Negad. Since 2001, there has been a daily bus connection between Yakimivka-Kirovograd and vice versa. The Yakimiv Rural Council has four shops, perhaps including the Negoda, where peasants sell their goods on the side of the road. In fact, the situation is quite different. On the territory of the Yakimiv Rural Council in December 2001 the “Savedbink” was closed, which served the population of two rural councils, and on May 1st this year it does not work. The liaison office in the village of Novoponiessensk was closed in April 2002 and the state of affairs for May 1st of this year is not working either. Bus connection to the Lesser Whiskey Recycling Center is not restored. There are no children and teachers from six villages to the village of Yakimovka without a 7-9 km walk on the freeway into the rain and into the whorehouse. And what kind of training can this kid be when he's in trouble, because of the accident, he'll be late for school? And which, by the way, meets her in an unappreciative state and with food shortages. Telephone calls on. The village of Novoznesenski, Yakimovka, Dorofiyevka, and other villages are completely absent. Not only in the Malovsky region, but also in the area, there is a complete disaster. And if you, Victor Fedorovich, as you were in Kirovgrad, did not drive you on a pre-prepared route, you would see for yourself. And in general, the city of Cyrus is surprised by the attitude of Svetlana’s deputy chief of staff Negoda toward the roads? So we have what we have. Perhaps it would be better for her to put order in the area of work entrusted to her. These problems are not listed in the Malovski district or in the whole Kirovograd region. And the governing bodies, instead of dealing positively with any problem in the village, are engaged in lying and writing. From this rostrum, I have talked several times about the irresponsibility and inaction of the heads of the district and district administration. But there are no economic and social developments in any area. And most of all, no one is responsible for this. This gives the impression that all of this is being done according to a plan to reorganize the administrative system of the country, which seems to be planning to destroy the Kyrovograd region as an administrative unit. I think, first of all, it's the complete inactivity of the heads of paradise and the general government; second of all, it's callousness, it's genocide over its people; third of all, we have to drive out poor leaders who only care for their own good. I ask you, Sir Vladimir Mikhailovich, to contribute to the resolution of the critical social issues of the Malovsky region of Kirovograd. And I would like you to consider this as a parliamentary request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u17	Yuri Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepare the Teeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u18	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! First. The Socialist Party of Ukraine joins its voice in protesting the provocative events in Lviv on May 9. We also view this as our national victory celebration. And we believe that Ukraine’s security forces are not eating bread for free, but they are trying to kill the wedge in the actions of the opposition forces. I can assure them on behalf of the Socialist Party that they will not succeed. The Socialist faction has also authorized me to express my concern about the deliberate delay in the judicial review of Mr. Szczerbán's illegal actions in the co-ordination of the positions of the National Deputy and Head of the Suma District Administration. Like all of Ukraine, we realize that this has to do with the election of the city’s suburban head, which will take place on May 18. After being removed by the usual Donetsk methods of the legally elected head of Sumu Andronov’s master, the Sumskie Gaulliter, looked forward to the near in the course of these elections. Yet today he has encountered the powerful work of the only candidate from the Socialist Party, the Communist Party, our Ukraine and the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko Sergey Klocka, a member of the Social Party. Of course, if Mr. Scherbán wins, he will be removed from the governorate tomorrow. Thus, the Kyiv court awaits, leaving Mr. Szerbane’s untiring and multi - vectored emergency airport. The faction of the Socialists therefore insists on an immediate trial this week. Otherwise, our faction will consider this to be another confirmation of the diagnosis of the "standard corn" of Ukrainian judiciality. And one more thing. We are very concerned about the events in Chernigov. In the constituency of 206, pressure has already begun on the opposition candidate Dmitr Ivanov. He's the head of the electoral commission who doesn't even consider it necessary to accept an application, to issue a warning without any justification, and he's preparing for the election. We realize that there's an extremely large amount of money involved, and there's a future counterfeiting mechanism in the presidential election. Therefore, the Socialist Party of Ukraine refers to its fellow deputies from all factions who are interested in fair elections to parliament to vote this Thursday for the establishment of a temporary commission of the Supreme Council to monitor the integrity, legality of elections in the Chernigian 206 constituency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u19	Valentin Zubov, Julia Timoshenko's faction, please. You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u20	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u21	Vladimir Yavorowski, please. Get ready for Remenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u22	Half a minute, Turkinov added to me. Second open letter to President Leonid Kuchmi: "Mr. President! The position of the country and the people you're monopolizing is the second term, the overthrow of Ukraine, the Ukrainian nation in an environment of unsuspecting, unsuspecting states, and therefore unforeseeable states, all of this forces me as a citizen to speak to you publicly again, even though I know you won't hear it. You have set yourself up with silencers who will not allow a critical word into the king’s ear. Still, to see where you have led and where Ukraine leads and to keep quiet is a crime. You have recently comforted us with the news that you have given Ukraine the right to rebuild postwar Iraq. But, Mr. President, who will rebuild Ukraine after you? Is it Iraq? And the biggest provocation of your environment is the changes to the Constitution. I'm not surprised if you say one thing before lunch, and after lunch, the opposite, so you've met different people. And yet it's the Constitution, the only good thing that's left a positive reference to you in Ukrainian history. And you want to twist it to the last breath to sit on the Ukrainian throne, whether it's a small Russian throne. I voted in favour of the undeclared text, thanks to you, the Constitution. At the level of democracy, it's a little different from the world's benchmarks. But I have to admit, it was designed for the Patriot President, for a highly moral, democratic, spiritual leader for whom Ukrainian national interests are greater than anything else. You didn't get that way, and unfortunately you didn't even want to. Thus, in your execution, some of the postulates of the Basic Law have turned Ukraine into a post - Soviet ghetto, where bright personalities disappear untraceably from the opposition, where political censorship has spread, where the authorities have united common crimes, where presidential relatives and favorites have adopted a good half of the national wealth, and shadow capital has brought into the politics of the criminal world. Today’s heads of government depend only on you. To them, the inhabitants of the area or the area are the gray masses that cause trouble, so it's up to officials to choose people, not you. Similarly, ministers of power are appointed, depending only on your will and will, not on the law and the officer’s honor. You humiliate them with illegal instructions and no one publicly stands up or resents them because they are aware of your vendetta and malice. That's why we still don't know who killed Gongadze, why the opponents of Chernobyl, Germany, Yemen, Krivenko were killed. Under the very nose of the generals of the U.S.S.A., the police, the prosecutor's office distributes massive circulations of fakes on behalf of your main competitor, Victor Yushchenk, and no one wants to determine whose business this is. It's interesting if, on our behalf, you suddenly have a postcard in Ukraine where, say, you thank Major Melnick for keeping your conversations with the subordinates for history. Would they have found the author or not? So we have to choose the forces of the Supreme Council. I have won major districts, but I understand that Ukraine today needs a proportional system, a political power chosen by the people to take responsibility for the nation’s destiny must appear. And today, thanks to your unscrupulousness, Ukraine is ruled by esdeks who have barely jumped into parliament. Thank you. It's a short version of the letter, it's going to be published in the press completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u23	Alexi Remenyuk. Get ready for Alexandrian. A belt? Please, Alla Alexandrijska then. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! We are now in a situation where all people are affected by the rise, discussing political reforms and, in particular, the proposals put forward for the debate of the people by the President of Ukraine. The so-called public debate on the President's initiative to amend the Constitution reminds me of a well-designed spectacle. Directors and directors tell us that there have been large gatherings throughout Ukraine, in which almost all the population of Ukraine participates. The people have studied the President's initiatives, discussed them, made proposals. We are told that all groups have had these discussions and call them figures, which are likely to eventually be summed up and called millions. How is this discussion really going? In fact, people are going to these meetings, not to mention the agenda in advance, because they understand if people find out what is going to be discussed, whether they come or express their true attitude towards the proposals that the President has actually made for their consideration. In the end, even these directors have to admit that only 15 per cent, I say the figure in the Kharkiv region, those who participated in these meetings accept the President's proposals unconditionally, in all other cases, people are criticizing, rejecting, accepting or making completely different proposals. And the question I have is, who can draw the line, who will develop a structured system, really, democratic governance of the State on the basis of the many proposals that have been made by people? Congregations often take place on entirely different occasions. Parents are invited to attend parental meetings at school, and then the records are written. In colossal areas, in ex-colosses, people are invited to the village on the subject of decomposition, either land or the distribution of property of the former CSP. People naturally attend these meetings because they are concerned about these issues, and in fact they propose to discuss and vote in favour of the President's initiatives. And you also understand what protocols arise from these so-called judgements. What's the truth? In Kharkiv, young people took the initiative and conducted interviews among young people under the age of 25, up to the age of 28. Thus, 64 per cent of those interviewed believe that reforms are necessary. Clearly, only 36 percent said that, yes, they understood what Kuchma was proposing. They don't understand. 31 percent. They do not respond at all to these proposals - 32 per cent. Only 16 per cent of the President's initiative is fully supported, 30 per cent are not supported, 21 per cent are partially supported, and 31 per cent are not aware of the situation. I think we need to evaluate this performance with dignity. If he were alive and looked at this show, I think he'd say I don't believe it. I do not believe that workers of the Malyshev factory support the President's proposals 100 per cent because they have no job. I don't believe the villagers support the president, so they're out of work today. So again, I say, like Stanislavsky, I don't believe it!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u25	Leukia Lukyanko is handing over the right to speak to Kendzior, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u26	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear fellow national MPs! Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear friends! I want to refute the message made by the Communist faction representative Alexander Doub of the Supreme Council from the rostrum. Everything that has been said from this rostrum by this national deputy is absolutely not true. As a Levian, I can assure you that on May 9, in Lviv, it was the efforts of the Dove and his supporters, members of the Communist Party, former members of the NCDV, that there was a gross anti - Ukrainian provocation. Everyone knows that the burial of the Soviet Red Army fighters in Lviv is on the Hill of Slava, and every year the Levites, who honor these people, placed flowers and honored the memory of the Soviet soldiers on the Hill of Glory. On the so - called Mars Field, where those who once went to the back and took their place after parts of the Soviet army, that is, parts of the NKVD, MGB, were buried in the Martian field. And in 1974-1975, even then, the Soviet authorities in Lviv completely overturned this Martian field with grass, the carat bones of the NCWD, and the MGB were taken away and buried somewhere, and the kids played football, and the dogs walked out. During their years of independence, no one ever put flowers on the plates in places where the cartels were once buried. With the participation of the authorities, the flowers were made up every May 9th to bury the Red Army fighters who were killed on the front and buried on the Hill of Slava. That was the case this year. But it was this year that a column of 150 people, led by a fellow pigeon, went, not to the Hill of Glory, but to the Field of Mars. Why has hunger already deliberately decided to resurrect the glory of the Karaites by planning a demonstration under the red flags for this field? After all, Comrade Dove knows that even if there were still Caratels ’ graves there, under international law their burials could not have military status. I would also like to remind the Communists that the 20th convention of your party once condemned the bloody crimes of the NCCD, the MGB. So we see a completely planned provocation. That the pearls of the Lion Communists and the former cartels dream of the return of the bloody terror testify to the defiled 7-8 May all over Lviv postcards on behalf of some "Russian liberation movement", a call to the Russian Lviv.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u28	In this one. In which Ukrainians are referred to as "grays", Lviv is originally a Russian city and is threatened.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u29	Time's up. Unplug the microphone. Please, instead of Trelyakow, Vladimir Filenko will be speaking. Yes, please. Dear colleagues! Calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u30	Dear National Deputies! I'm announcing the faction "Our Ukraine" regarding the verdict in the Vladimir Bondar case. On May 13 of this year, the authorities can celebrate another pirate victory. According to the verdict, the name of Ukraine was proclaimed on this day by Judge Kafilov in the hot hall of the Kjewa District Court of the former deputy head of Nazbank Volodymyr Bondar, who was sentenced to be deprived of the will for the article, quote, "exceeding the official powers that have caused the damage to the state, which is 250 times more than the untaxed minimum income of citizens". It's a sentence quote. The impossibility of specifying the exact amount of damage that Bondar was doing is due to the fact that no government agency suffered the damage, as evidenced by the relevant documents. The existence of similar formulations and the lack of evidence indicates that Bondar’s guilt has never been proved by the court. But the judgment had to appear, and its contents were foretold in advance. Many facts give us reason to believe that Bondar’s case is an orderly political execution. It is well - known that during the investigation of the case there was intense pressure to investigate. The government, by all legal standards, is trying to solve a dirty campaign against the opposition forces before the presidential elections. A regime that has lost the trust of the people tries to tarnish those who pose a real threat to it. In their desire to remain in power, the authorities are not able to count on human fate, and society is often misled by fabricating another resonant matter. The intensification of the case over the course of five years coincided strangely with political events closely related to Victor Yushchenk’s name as a politician. This coincides with the preparation period for the 1999 presidential elections, and at the time that Yushchenko headed the government, and during the parliamentary election campaign, and now that the President's next election is approaching. At the same time, this was accompanied by massive wastes of relevant trends in the media. In this context, the "Our Ukraine" bloc makes a formal statement that it takes control of further developments around the case in the courts and commits itself to proving to the public the composition of the real buyers and their real purpose. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u31	Alexy Babourin, last speaker, please, the Communist faction. Is there a Baburin?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u32	Yes, I'd like a word with Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u33	Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u34	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I am forced to speak out of this rostrum in connection with the appeal of residents of the village of Atmanai of the Jakimiv district of Zaporez. They're speaking Russian, so I'm going to speak the original language: "We, the people of the village of Atmanai, seek your help with pain and sorrow in our souls, we want to tell you what our village was like ten years ago. The Communist State Prison Company of the Order of the Labour Red Mark, as it sounded proud among the groups that had honored this high rank. So, a huge school, a decade old, a huge number of graduates of this school, thanks to our school-relationship teachers, have graduated from institutions and technology, obtained diplomas from all kinds of professions. The hospital, which was located in the area where the first medical care and life-saving was provided, was also home to newborns, such as gardens and houses of culture in each office where people rested after work day. Everything has been done for the education and development of young people, for us, workers and pensioners. How many well - built houses have been built? What a joy it was for young families to receive these apartments! And everyone knew that if you worked well, you'd have a lot, you'd be full and you'd wear clothes. And after a full - time job, there was nowhere to go and get some rest. Now let's see, it seems like a distant memory. Huge sheep complexes for 30,000 sheep, a dairy farm for 400 heads of the dairy herd, a farm for feeding young people - the CRS, a pig complex for tribal pigs and feeders, a feeding plant for feeding grains, a bird with layings - all of this was our own, native, cultivated and built by our hands, our fathers' hands and our grandfathers' hands. But to date, all of this has been virtually destroyed. For in our time we lived and rejoiced that our working hands were needed, that children and grandchildren could go to school peacefully, that after school anyone could go to colleges, and that after school they could come to their village. Come and see, set up a commission. We also appeal to the Attorney General's Office to send a commission to verify the status of the former prosperous economy. Today our village is dead, where our tractors and combines are not heard, the singing of the other cocks is heard, and people don't want to sing, they don't want to sing, the soul doesn't sing anymore, it cries. What a holiday it could be. When there's no money? They haven't been paid in eight years! Over the past six years, six leaders have been replaced, each leader is trying to get out of the economy as much as possible. Until then, people in this village are going to ask us, are they going to steal from us? They ask that the Supreme Council, the Attorney-General's Office, immediately influence the state of affairs in this household. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u35	Thank you. I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate instructions for matters that have been violated by the national MPs. Peter Cibenko, a replica, please. All I ask is no last names, dear colleagues. Please, Peter Stepanovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u36	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, a few minutes ago we witnessed another provocation from those forces, the political forces that defend today's neo-fascists. Unfortunately, it was not the first time that the master, representing a certain political power, tried to do an unappreciative thing -- wash away the black neophasist mare. Unfortunately, the whole of Ukraine witnessed May 9th, and these images not only went through Ukraine's television screens, but were seen by all of Europe and the world, we saw another fact of vandalism, the beating of veterans of the Great Homeland War by representatives of the neo-Nazi political forces in the city of Lviv. Unfortunately, this has become a recent tradition, a bad, sad tradition for Lviv. Little did the organizers of this provocation not only set up provocation itself but even tried to hide themselves. They're going to make an official statement that they did it and they're going to do it for the future. I am absolutely convinced that such actions do not match the image of the rule of law democratic state that Ukraine should have been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u37	Dear national MPs, distinguished guests! Three months ago, on February 12, at a parliamentary hearing dedicated to the memory of the victims of the 1932-1933 famine, we confirmed our intention to hold a special meeting of the Supreme Council on this subject. Dear colleagues! Dear colleague Kondzer, please sit down. I'm just asking you to raise your vote for this special session. We voted in favour of him by a constitutional majority, please calm down. As you will recall, this action was foreseen in paragraph one of the decrees of 28 November last year, which is the holding of a special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The social interest in this greatest tragedy in the history of the Ukrainian people and the intense mass debates around it and in the authorities of the echelons, in the political and scientific environments, and at the very standard of living among our fellow citizens are not accidental. Since Ukraine's independence and accelerated democratisation of social life have not been allowed to analyze and discuss spheres, events and themes, the truth of famine has become more shocking and shocking, it has hurt millions of people's minds. On the one hand, it was a natural reaction to the years and decades of the closure of society and countless ideological taboos of those times. On the other hand, the disastrous consequences of the famine, conditions, and circumstances he was living with have been said for himself. Of course, social activity around the issue has an active and tangible impact and attention given to it in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In my opinion, we have already passed some of the first phase of this process, which could be described as tragically emotional. That is, people were filled with fear, anger, and condemnation, born with killer statistics and all those behind it. This mood will accompany us for a long time. At the same time, I think, and I'm sure you'll support me in this, there's a time for clear, objective political and legal assessments of this terrible historical cataclysm, lessons and conclusions that come out of it. In extrapolating the events of the 70-year-old years in the reality of our present, we need to provide for approaches that would promote political consensus, political understanding and accountability to the future, not confrontation, hostility that we have today. This is if you want our sacred duty to fellow countrymen who have fallen under the grip of hunger and repression. The past needs to be spoken of for the future, for immemoriality leads to a spiritlessness that overwhelms the age - old experience of the people, destroys its sociocultural identity and self - consciousness. I think there is no doubt about how much depends on the position officially declared by the Supreme Council to the Ukrainian people and the world. We have to do this in reference to the Ukrainian people, whose designs and corresponding decisions are offered to your mind. Undoubtedly, this is evidenced by the concrete fact that such a move by the Ukrainian Parliament will have a broad international resonance. I would like to call once again all of you, your distinguished colleagues, to mutual understanding, mutual respect and tolerance. It is only there that we can together create an atmosphere of constructive work for the responsible one, and I am not afraid of that word, a sobering attitude towards the topic put forward for a special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The special session is proposed to be built this way. Listen to a report by Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitri Tobacco, within 20 minutes, a report by the head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities, the National Relations of Hennadia Udovenko, and then determine with acceptance the invitation of the participants of the special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Do you have a deal? I invite the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Dmitry Vladimirovich, to report. I don't think we should debate this in order not to make a split, we've already agreed and agreed on this. Please, please. the understanding and support of John Alexanderovich. Please, Dmitri Volodyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u38	You high-ranking head! Dear National Deputies! Months have passed since the parliamentary hearings in this room dedicated to honoring the memory of the victims of the famine. They had a report from the government of Ukraine that, in our view, provided an analysis of the terrible and tragic events of 70 years ago. Appropriate political and scientific conclusions were made, and the necessary suggestions were made. But that's not enough. We need to speak again about this terrible tragedy so that the words of deep sorrow not only reach everyone’s consciousness but also enter into his heart. Today, we want to emphasize once again the full significance of today's active process of understanding the causes and consequences of the 1932-1933 national tragedy for Ukraine's history, for the history of the entire world community. For the first time, the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, in a word, all the highest leaders of the state and its highest authorities have openly declared the artificial nature of hunger, the almost half-century concealment by the corporate regime of truth of the causes and the unprecedented scale of this crime against the Ukrainian people, deliberately motivated by Stalinism and the local perpetrators of its instructions. Before us, the offspring of those who have been able to survive the famine and those who have not been judged to do so are entrusted with an extraordinary moral and political importance worthy of honoring the memory of his victims. This was highlighted in last year's Presidential Decree on measures related to the 70th anniversary of the famine in Ukraine, the next order of the President of Ukraine to take additional action in connection with the 70th anniversary of the famine. In particular, it is the setting up of monuments, monuments, memorial signs, the organization of cities for the burial of victims of famine, including the building of an appropriate memorial in Kiev, the provision of material assistance to survivors of the famine. During the summer, we are 12 years of independence, but we still owe a huge debt to people who have become victims of Stalin’s repression. Especially in Ukraine, because the regime has always feared the national liberation movement of the Ukrainian people and has always wanted to warn about the imminent danger of preventive repression. The fourth century, during which Ukraine was in the epicenter of the political repression of the totalitarian regime, proved to be the worst in more than a thousand years of history of the Ukrainian people. The independent and sovereign Ukraine yearns to atone for the millions who have died a fierce famine. Unfortunately, the 60th anniversary of the victim's famine was not properly respected. The 10 years that have survived this anniversary have also been virtually lost. The public condemnation of hunger only sounded in the speeches of the President of Ukraine, the individual national deputies, and the official officials. There are many reasons for this. One is the long-standing political opposition in society and in Parliament. Unfortunately, the topic of famine was often used as a political weapon. Some demanded that an account be made available to Russia, which accepted all the commitments of the Soviet Union — let this take place. Others blamed the destruction of the province of Communists born after 1933. And the third pretended that they knew nothing about the famine, if there was a famine in Ukraine, it was also in other regions of the Soviet Union. The times of opposition around this subject in our history, we hope, are passing. A testimony to this and a political assessment is today’s special session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is natural when there are different moods in society. Naturally, when there is a political competition in Parliament. But I am deeply convinced that there are years in our history that should not disunite but unite society. This calls for national interests, which requires our moral obligation to remember innocent victims. One thing, I believe, would be to remind that in a totalitarian state, the people could not be held accountable for the actions of their government, which could have become criminal. Others might mention that the Ukrainian Company acknowledged hunger after 50 years of taboo and published in a party publication a collection of terrible documents on hunger. A third person may be advised to consult the documentation of this collection at least. And all of us are so different now we need to remember who hit the nabba by December 1987, when hunger was banned in the year 33. Three famines in a quarter of a century. This is not a habit, so it is now our responsibility to bring the truth of the famine to every citizen of Ukraine and to the nations of the world. We need to fully implement those measures that will contribute to our goal. We need to make them long - term and large. On November 28, last year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the 70th anniversary of the famine. In fact, this decree has initiated measures to honor the memory of the victims of famine throughout the year, as part of the presidential decree of Ukraine to commemorate the victims of famine and political repression. Some of the measures approved by the Supreme Council require a greater deadline for their implementation. However, the responsibility of the government is not only constitutional but also moral. To implement the decisions of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Organizing Committee for the Preparation and Implementation of the 70 Years of Hungermare in Ukraine, graves are organized in all regions, registers of monuments and memorials to the victims of famine, where the victims of hunger and political repression are subjected to mourning wreaths and flowers, prayers and parades, round tables in the years of memory and scientific conferences on this tragic event. Church leaders and religious organizations have responded to the appeal of the Supreme Council and government and have memorial mosques held in all the temples of Ukraine. In the media, memories are presented and presented, as are eyewitnesses of the tragic events of 1932-33, as well as scientists, executive heads, local government authorities, exhibits and wide-ranging editions of archival documents, materials and memories of famines, organized cycles of television and radio broadcasts, publications of documents and materials on these tragic events. The work on a television movie on famine, the political evaluations of the event, is being completed. The government has decided to create a state-owned historical-memory package of victims of hunger, political repression and violent deportations in the form of a monument, a museum, a conference room and a research centre. In particular, the government wanted to inform about several new important projects related to research into the archival and oral sources of the national memory of famine. So far we have enjoyed, as it were, an extensive way of studying the source base of the problem of famine and have published for today in archival publications, virtually all documents available in our archives in the form of diverse documentary publications and handbooks. The efforts of scientists and archivists have been published in separate editions of 15 documentaries and 23 magazines, and over 1,000 records are presented on newspaper newspapers. More than 10,000 original documents have been introduced into the general public, both at the time of the institutions of different levels, as well as memories, testimonies, reflexes, recorded at a certain time distance. In particular, these are unique collections of documents called "Hunger 1932-1933 in Ukraine", "Collectiveization and Hunger in Ukraine", "Hunger Humiliation". Twelve large - scale district documentary editions, smaller by volume, are as important as published documents. They generally give an idea of the source of data on famine in Ukraine. In general, there are almost one and a half thousand archival foundations of institutions and organizations that exist in the 17 present areas of Ukraine. They have more than 200,000 cases, which are composed of a full and extremely saturated data bank, unfortunately not yet formed as a self-formed information base for retrospect documentation. In her community, she paints a terrible picture of the introduction of famine as a political means of subjugating Ukrainian society as a kind of terror of hunger. The goal set before such publications is that the Ukrainian people are aware of their tragedy. Now is the time to refocus on a broader, already intensive course of scientific research. In addition to the need for scientific coverage of foreign archives, mainly Russian and Western European and American, the need for an extension of the oral history of famine is that of gathering and organizing memories of these events or folk tales of them that will occur among the descendants of the victims of the famine — this kind of genetic memory that has saved them, regardless of all the efforts of the governing regime to consume them. Today, according to the recommendation of Parliamentary hearings and the commission of the Government of the DRC, he is working on the development of a project of the State's "Oriental History of Hungermare" program. Another aspect is the publication of an illustrative series of the 1930s, the publication of all the latest visual documents on the historical processes of that era -- collectivization, extermination, political repression, artificial work enthusiasm, etc. In particular, the Internet offers enormous opportunities for perpetuating in human consciousness one of the greatest crimes of Stalinism and one of the greatest tragedies of the twentieth century -- famine in Ukraine. Over the last few years, a powerful information resource has been developed on the global network -- special websites from the hunger industry of official institutions, public organizations, memorial networks, thematic chapters on this issue, numerous full text publications of documents, hundreds of thematic publications on Ukrainian e-scene sites, electronic library catalogues, other bibliographic manuals, and so on. Quite informative is the first Ukrainian specialized site dedicated to the tragedy of the Ukrainian people prepared by the State Committee of Archives. In our view, this is a very promising and important direction for a new discovery of all aspects of the human tragedy of seventy years ago, focused primarily on the young generation and the international community. Similarly, young people are also addressed by the Crusades, which is being completed by the Ministry of Education and Science in conjunction with the Ministry of Education and Science. Its task is in the language of documents, but it is popular and profitable to tell students, learners, students about this terrible page of our history. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I want to break the problem that is. No exaggeration, it has extraordinary, I'd say, even global significance. This is about the international recognition of an act of genocide by the Ukrainian people during the years of famine. There is no doubt that famine is a crime against humanity. Yet. Any international organization does not recognize a crime against humanity as an act of genocide. There is a United Nations convention on the prevention and punishment of genocide that was opened for ratification of the General Assembly resolution of December 9, 1948, and gained power on January 12, 1949. Under genocide, this document understands actions that have been carried out in order to destroy, in whole or in part, any national, ethnic, racial or religious group as such. That is, genocide can be recognized as acts that have caused the deaths of tens or hundreds of thousands of people and the unrecognized acts that have caused the deaths of millions of people. The United States Hunger Commission of the 32nd, 33rd years in Ukraine, which completed its work on April 22, 1988, acknowledged this famine as an act of genocide. The International Commission for the Investigation of Hunger in Ukraine in the 32nd, 33rd years under the leadership of Professor Sanberg in 1988-89 also concluded that "Food is an act of genocide." True, the Advocate General of this international commission objected to a verdict based on such motives. First. During the events considered by the Commission of the United Nations Convention on Genocide, there was no such thing. The other one. As none of the perpetrators of the tragedy at that time are alive. Third. Only the Soviet Union had to decide whether to break the genocide convention or not. The commission discussed the general’s lawyer’s protest, and her thoughts were shared. But most of the members of the commission concluded that the question of bringing the guilty to justice might not be enough to make the principle of a political decision on the recognition of hunger in 1932-1933 by genocide. The Soviet Union no longer exists and the issue of recognition of hunger in 1932-33 years in Ukraine may be violated before the UN by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the hands of international organizations that will deal with this issue at the hands of the UN, the Statekeepers at the direction of the government, the National Academy of Sciences can provide all the information that's accumulated over a decade and a half of scientific research. This information confirms that the famine in Ukraine was not only a crime against humanity but also an act of genocide. I will stop at this very briefly to outline the conceptual directions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s argument before the United Nations. First. It's worth noting that the famine has been the result not only of the forced overcrowding but of the total and purposeful elimination of food of any kind in all the regions of the Soviet Union, whose population was two-thirds and higher than that of the Ukrainians. It's different. It is appropriate to identify the causes of the various kinds of private repression and of different directions: mass repression of an individual nature, terror of hunger, deportations that occurred in the 1930s, Ukraine itself, as a national republic. From our point of view, if the Supreme Council makes a reasoned statement and puts before the United Nations the problem of recognizing famine in Ukraine as an act of genocide in 1992-1993, Ukraine has a historic opportunity to prove to the international community the fact of the genocide of the Ukrainian people in the twentieth century. Respectful national deputies, the 21st - century generation, should be aware of the extent of the loss that the people of Ukraine suffered, for it is precisely to draw conclusions for the future. And so today we have to make every effort to make sure that in the future life of the Ukrainian people -- this never happens again. We are simply obliged by the memory of the innocent victims of hunger to attach to the level of memory perpetuation that exists in the world for victims of the Holocaust, a level that reflects the very subtle formula: “Teach, remember, study. ” We must inform the world that the artificial famines of the Soviet era were our Ukrainian holocaust. It was a known genocide of the Ukrainian people, which has cast its heartless impression on our entire history, on our national consciousness. Victims of genocide and their descendants should know. No one is forgotten or forgotten. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u39	Thank you, Dmitri Volodyrovich. I invite the head of the Hennady Widow's Committee to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u40	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies and guests! Today we are gathered again to honor the memory of our fellow countrymen, millions of victims of hunger 32-33 years old, and once again to draw the attention of the native and foreign communities to an unprecedented, anti-human action. The special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is a continuation of discussions on the problems of famine and its consequences, which took place at the parliamentary hearings on February 12, this year. The history of famine remains an acute political problem. The main reason is that the effects of famine have continued for decades. That is, our past does not leave us, just as it is when, in the wise expression of the ancients, the dead are held alive. That the politicalization of this problem is evidenced by the fact that I will not classify it, but I am paying attention to our radio audiences that the Communists have unanimously left the conference room and are not taking part in this special session of the Supreme Council. The Communists thus confirm the responsibility of the Communist Stalinist regime for the millions of victims of the Ukrainian people. Moreover, they have thus confirmed that the Communists of today, the Communist Party of today, are also responsible for this tragedy of the Ukrainian people, so they have left the meeting room. Following the February 12th parliamentary hearings, many publications were published about the events of 32 to 33 years, and many appeals were made to the committee. Regrettably, there are some among them where the authors, by the way, the Ukrainian national deputies, if not directly apologising to Stalin’s communist hunger policy, refer to some of its objective natural causes: drought, infertility, and so forth. Most impressively, some politicians and scientists are trying to find such a pattern in Stalin’s politics, even something positive about ordermaking, strengthening discipline, raising responsibility. It's a resurgence of the inertia of post-radian thinking by an aideologicalized communist propaganda of consciousness. Because the entire civilized world proves that it does not require an authoritarian system with its inhumane methods — repressions, deportations, and famines. That's why popularization and even propaganda of the indisputable historical facts are now essential -- the facts that establish the causal link between what is known as the realisation of the doctrine of building a bright future and social cataclysm, one of the worst of which was the 1932-1933 famine in Ukraine. That is why today, when the truth of famine has become available, we need to learn the basic lessons of history — an objective analysis of those tragic events cannot be directed only in the past, and it must be focused on the present. Knowing the truth about hunger, genocide, always remembering it, we are obliged to prevent it from happening again and again now and in the future. In the face of history, when we mention the incalculable victims of hunger, we have no right to allow any anti-national authority to destroy human lives with impunity, to root out their native language, customs and traditions -- all that forms the foundation of every nation, its spirituality and culture. Politics. The legal assessment of hunger as a genocide of the Ukrainian people not only provides for the identification of relevant historical facts, but also for the appropriate scientific and scientific and legal qualifications of the scale and responsibility of the crime. The U.S. Congress has already talked about this, but I want to repeat it, as early as 1988, it recognized the famine of 1932-1933 in Ukraine as the genocide of our people. It has to be noted that in a number of nations around the world, the problem has been given considerable attention. I've already reported here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the Supreme Chamber of the Canadian Parliament should consider a resolution by which the Canadian government recognizes the 1932-22 famine in Ukraine as a historical fact of genocide. It was recently reported that a memorable meeting was held in Brussels on this tragic page in the history of Ukraine. The statement of the head of the Belgian Senate states that the consequences of the 1932-33 famine in Ukraine are a testimony to the humanitarian catastrophe of a global scale. The famine in Ukraine is an act of genocide against the Ukrainian people, one of the most terrible crimes committed in modern history. The truth about this tragedy needs to be known around the world -- it is emphasized in the Belgian Parliament's address. Yesterday we received a message, received a telegram from Mr. Ivan Krishtin, Head of Parliament of Switzerland. In this reference he also says that he wants to honor the memory of the extremely numerous victims of this catastrophe. Switzerland shares the tragic memories of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and expresses its assurances to the Ukrainian national deputies in their moral support. "Please, Mr. Head, accept my assurances of my high regard for you, Vladimir Mikhailovich," he said. There is no evidence of genocide. Letters and appeals from eyewitnesses and direct victims have come and continue to be sent, miraculously surviving the infernal famine. They are all pained, begging, and exhorting that justice be done. There is neither the time nor the physical nor the moral forces to recount the suffering that befell these grieving ones. I have repeatedly stressed that famine in Ukraine on a scale and method of doing so, with socio-economic and demographic, moral and psychological consequences, falls entirely under the core articles of the UN Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. In my opinion, in the opinion of the Human Rights Committee, the Ukrainian Human Rights Committee should accelerate the preparation of the relevant draft resolution, a request to the UN that, according to the aforementioned convention, the 32-33 years of famine be recognized by the genocide of the Ukrainian people. I agree with the assessment of the honourable rapporteur on this issue, but the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot make draft decisions to the General Assembly. Only the government of the State can do this because the Supreme Council does not represent it. But the Supreme Council should be more active in ensuring that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs promotes this idea. Next. The reporter spoke correctly about the need to give a monument to the victims of famine, and the Supreme Council made a decision, we determined, and the protests were already under way. Ivan Vasilovich, there are protests against the place chosen by the Supreme Council. But there is also the question of dismantling the monuments of the organizers of the famine. For example, Kosíor is directly responsible for the famine, and his monument is placed on the street of the name of Chernobyl. Isn't that a paradox? We must correct this situation. It's not just about Kosiore. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I didn't want to aggravate the situation, but when the Communist faction dropped the session, I was so offended, we even scratched it a little bit, and Spudarenko introduced his draft resolution, the appeal I'm proposing to take today. But you can't do that. And the last. You have two draft decisions for your consideration -- mine on behalf of the committee, and yesterday at the request of the committee, at my request, Ivan Vasilovich Spondarenko submitted his draft application to the Ukrainian people. I'm calling it off. Ivan Vasilovich took into account the basic positions of my project, made editorial corrections, and improved it. I'd like to ask, I'm addressing everyone, let's talk today, this is a special session, we shouldn't postpone it to four decisions, and let's take a consensus, at least, today, to address the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention. And there, on the third floor, an exhibition is arranged for victims of political repression who are very close to the victims of hunger. During the break, I urge you to take a look at this exhibition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have the results of this meeting to adopt a corresponding decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, since a special meeting, we do not have a special meeting procedure, so obviously we don't need to vote on this issue right now, that is, the question of making a decision today. So, obviously, if you have the will, we could vote today or vote on Thursday. We have one bill because the Hennadi Josipovich committee's draft decree was withdrawn. Thursday? Then, fellow believers, let us vote tomorrow, and we will make the right decision. I'd like a committee. One minute, Stepan Ilkovich. We just have to anticipate maybe the tasks that the Cabinet of Ministers needs in this project, so that we have clear results and a more specific focus on problems and ways to solve them. In accordance with our agreement, a special meeting will be held. One minute, Stepan Ilkovich, there's no motive or performance. Then I have an offer, because we've finished our consideration of this issue, and we'll make the decision tomorrow, we've got five minutes to break, we've got to take a break for 12 hours for 25 minutes, and we're going to continue our work. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 25 minutes. Well, we don't have performances, Stepan Ilkovich, dear!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u42	We're continuing our work, dear colleagues. The draft laws amending the Ukrainian law on the judiciary of Ukraine on the powers of a higher specialized court and qualified judges are being reviewed. Reporter Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. And together comes the related. Draft law amending Ukraine's law on the judiciary to improve the judicial system. The reporter is Mikhailo Melniczuk, as well as Mikola Vasilovich Onischuk. So I would ask, if you have no objection, let's discuss three bills at the same time. So you report to everyone, and then we'll ask Michael Melniczuk. No objections? Please, Mikola Vasilovich. It's very short, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u43	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Your view is suggested by three, as has already been said, bills relating to amendments to the current law on the judiciary. I would like to remind you that this law was passed a little over a year ago, in February 2002, and that is what the judicial system is now. What is the problem of making changes, and what do they involve? The first bill, i.e. Bill No. 2509, I would call it the Legal Technology Bill, i.e. it doesn't make significant changes in the fabric of the law, but it removes the differences that are now between a series of articles. In particular, I'm short-circuiting these differences and their content. In particular, the bill proposes to amend and supplement paragraph 5 of Article 38 of the Act, which includes the Secretary of the Plenary of the High Court of Specialists. It is meant that the bill in the form of higher specialized courts provides that there is a Presidium and a Plenary as organs of judicial self-government. However, the legislator, and you know the conditions under which this bill was adopted, did not foresee the existence of an official such as the secretary of the plenary who should organize it, maintain protocols and everything else. Therefore, the bill suggests that the plenary consists of the secretary of the plenary, who prepares them, conducts the protocol and signs the bills, which is part of the presidency. It is also envisaged that article 40, paragraph 1, should be completed in new parts, according to which the judge of a higher court will be involved in the consideration of matters brought before the plenary. I must point out that at the suggestion of the higher specialized courts there is the idea that the plenary of the higher court of agriculture should include, in particular, the judges of this court, all the judges, not just the officials of this court. I think it's a fairly democratic approach and it's worth supporting. The next amendment concerns article 41 of this Act, including the holding of paragraph 1 of this article in accordance with paragraph 5.38, according to which the composition of the bureau, apart from the head of the court, its deputies and judges, includes also the deputies of the heads of chambers and, as the secretary of the plenary of the higher court of expertise has already said. And the final addition to Bill 2509, it refers to article 130. In particular, it is predicted that departments and other structural units may be established in the local courts. The point is that the court’s apparatus should provide the work of the court, a naturally needed archive, a naturally necessary office, and so forth. But it happened that one day the bill overlooked these questions. That's for bill 2509. Next bill, 2510. And I'm going to report it at the same time with a general description of the bill of my colleague, National MP Melniczuk, because it relates to one problem, the problems of qualified judges, who today are primarily responsible for the formation of the judiciary in the sense that they carry out the judges' certification, that is to say, they establish their aptitude for judicial work. What's the problem here? In the law in force today, namely the Law on the Court of Justice, much of the authority from the qualified commissions in the areas that existed before this law was transferred to the higher qualification commission. Instead, the qualified commissions that existed in the areas were reduced to regional levels in different districts. But what happened was that the legislator, the status of the highest qualified commission, not its numerical composition, did not change its material and technical security. And today, working with the Legal Policy Committee, we know very well that, in fact, the Higher Qualifications Commission is overwhelmed by submissions and is working very hard on these submissions without, in fact, being able to personally and thoroughly examine the case for each judge who is recommended for a position, both on an indefinite basis, for election by the Supreme Council and for recommendations for a judge appointed for the first time in five years by the President of Ukraine. That is, the experience of applying this law has led us to think that we need to go back to the system and practice of functioning a qualified commission that existed before the adoption of the law. In particular, to provide for qualified commissions to exist in each area, and they would prepare directly for the election and appointment of judges regarding judges of local and appeals courts. This issue has been discussed by the Legal Policy Committee, and I must tell you that we have received general support, bearing in mind that these bills are recommended for voting by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the first reading. In addition to that and the MP Melniczuk, this is Bill No. 2537, and Bill 2510, which I spoke of, have also made some other proposals. Some of them have been supported by the committee, some of them haven't, but the general opinion of our colleagues on the right committee is that these proposals are sufficient and justified to be accepted in the first reading, and then in the second reading mode, if you have your confidence, the appropriate positions, the individual positions to specify, leave something behind, and something perhaps to cancel. I may have concluded with this, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u44	Thank you so much for letting us know so quickly. Have a seat, please. Michael Melniczuk, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u45	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The need to amend the rules of the law is due to the fact that, as of 1 January 2003, a state court administration had begun its activities, which had been authorized to deal with statistical and personal matters, judges’ personnel, materials for appointment, election and release of judges. Moreover, in the present law, the composition of the qualified committees has not been very effective. In particular, article 75 of the Law provides that two persons are appointed by the appropriate district council of Kiev to locate the judges. From the legislator’s point of view in this case came a representation from the Sevastopol City Council. Moreover, a valid rule of law, regulating the local formation of the judiciary, does not allow representatives of other branches of government, state and related administrations to participate in the process. The most important rule of law is article 74, which stipulates that the work of the qualified committees is carried out in the appeals districts. It was practically impossible for them to function properly here, and it unjustifiably removed the representatives of the executive and representative authorities in 18 areas from their participation in the formation of the judiciary. Areas. It is illogical to have the law that, for example, representatives of the Lviv District Council form a judicial branch of power in the Volinsky, Zakarpatski, Ivano-Frankivsky, Ternopolski, Chernobyl areas. Completely unfounded rules of law have deprived qualified judges of their powers to deal with the possibility of making recommendations for the appointment of judges on an uninterrupted basis. [[Articles 61 and 77]] Qualifying commissions as an organ in the system should also be available, as a colleague of Oneschuk has just reported. They should be effective, self - controlled, and able to resolve matters quickly, especially with regard to monitoring the compliance of judges with the oath of judges and the Code of Professional Ethics. That is why they should be close to those who use the services of the local courts and appeals courts. They are the ones who solve the vast majority of matters. The location of qualified commissions in regions, appeals districts, specialized courts, as provided for by the valid Law on the Court of Justice of Ukraine, has made qualified commissions unoperable, cumbersome, and disengaged. It is quickly difficult to assemble such a commission, since the members of the commission carry out their duties on public grounds. Travel, for example, excludes the need to increase the cost of shipping. The Commission will not be able to quickly address the issue of the completion of the judiciary, which means that citizens’ rights to judicial protection will be violated. The bill I submitted touches articles 17, 74, 75, 77, 88, 97, 98, 101 and 111 of the Law on the Court of Justice of Ukraine. Thus, there is also work on the part of the Supreme Court as a result of subtle work and support for a professional committee. I'm very grateful for your cooperation in this direction, Mr. Carmazin, well, even if my friend said so, it would be good. It is meant that when we adopt the draft laws in the first reading, we are ready and ready to work together to unify the two bills. So there's some inadequacy to take away, something to correct, and so that there's an appropriate law that works for our courts today so that they can work more effectively. By the way, I'd like to inform the National Deputies that today, if not 900, some 800 judges are not yet doing justice just because they have not passed the appropriate qualification committees and are not approved today in the Supreme Council. This figure may or may not be fluctuating there. So the state pays the salary, people don't make it, so to speak, through all these qualification commissions and corresponding ones. And so it's proposed that this bill in these areas, as my colleague Oneschuk was talking about, reinstate the work of the qualification committees. I believe that if there is support for today, today there will be support for this room and tomorrow when we vote, we could unify and make one bill that meets the needs of the judiciary in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u46	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. We need two pros, two opposites. Please indicate the names of those who sign up. Take off the rostrum because you can't see the name. Yuri Carmazin, please. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u47	Dear National Deputies! Virtually every third question raised today at the reception of citizens is the organization of the judicial branch of government. And the fact that we have very serious problems today, so many of the serious unaccounted for decisions made by judges, is in many cases linked to the fact that this is how we react to the selection of judicial personnel. Look, you've been offered again on Thursdays! We're looking at 60 people on the committee, and we have eyes coming out, when we see them, they give us them. It turns out that it was harder to introduce qualified commissions into an additional state than it is now to make an inconvenient selection of personnel. The bills currently being proposed by National Deputy Oneichuk and National Deputy Melnichuk are specifically called upon to strengthen the judicial authority, enhance its authority in the State and improve the availability of information on the activities of the judicial authorities, and deal with matters related to the formation of the judiciary. True, they have their faults, I'll tell them about them, because today we have to have such a strong judicial authority that, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, would even be under the decree signed yesterday by President Kuchma, but, God forbid he be made public about the appointment of Deputy Director of the Tax Administration of Ukraine Maxim Stepanov. A gynecologist by profession is appointed deputy head of the Ukrainian State Tax Administration, and there are schemes, fictitious debts, and so on. That's the subject of a separate conversation. But I'm talking to the President right now: you were given an order yesterday, don't release it now, check out the information Karmazin told you about. And maybe you'll find at number 85 in a village called the Golden Gate, which is worth $1 million and a half million. Ask him who he was transformed into in the last days. And you will understand all the dimensions of corruption in our country. So, in order for the courts to resist this, I would like to make such proposals. First. I suggest we accept it in the first reading, but we need to unify, Melniczuk said very well that these projects need to be brought together and worked together. I don't think we need to do this if we're going to make a new official printed edition. I don't want to justify it, but obviously, I'm against having qualified commissions distributed to appeals courts, just to local courts in the field. And I'm against the executive power to increase the influence on the judiciary here is a huge mistake. We've already figured out that we have all of that in us. Everything else, i.e. representation from the executive power here has to be balanced and reduced. Everything else, absolutely right, needs support. And I thank both the People's Deputy Melniczuk and Onischuk for preparing and willing to make an effort to continue this work so that the judicial system is really a model and a substitute for the struggle for justice of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u48	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u49	Thank you. School Andrew, Julia Timoshenko’s faction, Ukrainian National Assembly Well, I also traditionally support the proposal that was already put forward. That is, these two bills must be combined. And I think we're going to go out on that common and necessary denominator that everybody needs. Not just those who face the judicial system, but those who even live in this state, because whatever it is, this is a serious branch of power -- the judicial system, and the more it will be protected from the possibility of bribery, from the possibility of a bribe, the better and easier it will be for all society to live, the better the situation. Well, and, therefore, I would like to emphasize what will be needed during the voting process to come to a conclusion in order to support in the first reading, to then go out on a single bill, to bring to the hall a quality, constructive, concentrated law, to adopt and therefore to put a dot, because it is a necessity. We can't move away from what's going on in the courts right now, we can't move away from what's actually going on with these qualified commissions and the rest. However, this requires a reasonable and balanced approach. And here, if we all understand together that this bill needs to be supported, but at the first reading stage, all those who have constructive proposals, all who want to join and work in this direction will all get the opportunity to do so, because the independent judiciary is a quality state, the independent judiciary is an opportunity in the courts to stand up for the honor and dignity not only of the authorities, not of the people who have the pressure on the judge, but of the common people. And the main thing is that people are now afraid to go to court, they're afraid of a lawsuit, they're afraid of a judicial burden, and they're only afraid because it takes time, money, not results. They are not sure that it is possible, through a court, through a third authority, to resolve this issue that they have in conflict with authority, with neighbors, or with anyone else. So I want to conclude once again that these two bills, in principle, should have come together, but once they have done so, we need to back them up in the first reading and vote on this bill on this Thursday in the first reading, to work on it. I think that in a month before the end of this session we will be able to give hurrah a high-quality productive law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u50	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, get ready from above.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u51	Dear friends and Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have this version where the hall is virtually all one-sided because we have this example of the world level as amended by the law. So the law works for a while, then it turns out its achilles five, and then it's analyzed, and so on and so on, this hole. Here we have exactly the same example. But I've said before, I'm ready to repeat right now that when we discuss a bill or a bill, we're like MPs, like politicians, we just have the opportunity to draw the attention of our society, our constituents to the subject. So I wanted to say, unfortunately, that the good intentions that were set up both in the Constitution and in creating our judicial system, unfortunately, as much as much, were simply not justified. By giving, as it were, all the powers for the independence of judges, we have some degree today, I don't want to generalize, but in a way we have a simple cartoon for the judiciary. You can give a lot of examples, that black man's example, when one official's last name is not in his name, and suddenly he recognizes himself and sues the author of this feljeton in a year's time. Where in the world can it be when there is no surname? Or let's say the second option is an example from my already elected district. The residential offices didn't make deals with any resident of the city of Jókkna, they didn't agree that they would serve them, that they would turn on their lights, that they'd clean up the yard, that they'd take out the trash, or that people would send home literally a message that they'd have to pay 600-800 dollars, that's in a city where there's terrible unemployment and that sort of thing. People are brought to justice. And when the court doesn't understand it, it's still just going to print these decisions, and it's not going to do that. One could quote, and each one of you, my distinguished colleagues, could give a lot of examples in his district. Tomorrow we're going to confirm the judges from Lviv, and I think there's going to be a lot of claims to these people. Not some ambition, but just before the rule of law is broken, it's the judges. So in closing, I want to say that I absolutely support what these two bills need to be attached. We really need qualified commissions that can do it anyway, even though someone will, so to speak, have some kind of oversight of the judges. But I would immediately like to say that it would be very appropriate, Mr. Lawmakers, to immediately submit in a package a law on the ethics of judges. By the way, if this were to go parallel, I think we would have just filled this hole that we have today. I am convinced that this bill needs to be supported, it is good, and it will at least slightly improve the legal situation in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u52	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u53	Dear colleagues! Of course, any legislation that seeks to improve the judiciary is a positive one, and it is therefore clear from this assumption that I am today in solidarity with all those who say that there are positive points that need to be summarized and made in particular after the first reading. However, if you allow, literally, a few comments that I think should be taken into account by those who will refine afterwards. First. In a number of bills, in this case Bill 2537, there are several proposals that I think require further work to come up with some finalities. First. It is proposed that representatives of the Ministry of Justice be excluded from the qualification commissions. I don't know how right that is, but I think it's a skilled component of competence and professionalism, and so I think that the representatives of the Minust in such organizations should be present in such bodies. The next element. It is proposed that representatives of local administrations should be included in the Councils of Qualifications Commissions instead. That is, we are changing the representative power in this case to the category of executive power. I don't think that's appropriate and we need to keep working on this. And the last sentence. I believe that the proposal that the bill proposes the creation of a new official press body for the judiciary, the newspaper Justice, in this case there is not exactly, let us put it this way, a necessary proposal. Why? Because we already have an official body and a printed body that publishes, to some extent, a possible regulatory framework, a legislative framework that already has, so to speak, legitimacy and, respectively, following the publication in the same Official Gazette of Ukraine, in the “Reports of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, in the “Governmental Courier” and in a number of other publications, the publication of certain laws, regulations is official enough and that is enough. What's more, this paper. The “Justice” which is proposed to be released here will be, the metric and technical financial security will take place through funds allocated by the public administration of the judiciary. As a person who has encountered this body, I know that this body is now in the era of development, it has not much resources, if we still force them to publish a newspaper that will in large measure duplicate what already exists, it will probably not be right. In general, I would like to reiterate my agreement with all those who say that on first reading, we should accept and unite. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the consideration of draft laws amending the Ukrainian law on the judiciary of Ukraine concerning the powers of the Supreme Court and the qualified courts, as well as the draft law amending the Ukrainian law on the judiciary of Ukraine on the improvement of the judicial system have been completed. We will decide on the outcome of the debate on the day of the vote. Now we have to consider a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Concessions on Oil Transport. The Cabinet of Ministers is requesting that this bill be postponed so that they can reconcile their additional arguments. Is there no objection? A draft law amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences on Nuclear and Radiation Security is being announced for consideration. Reporter of the Head of the State Nuclear Regulatory Committee Grishenko Vadim Vasilovich. Prepare Bronnikov Volodymyr Costinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u55	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Your attention is given to the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences. The introduction of amendments to the Code is due to the fact that a number of laws have been enacted in recent years in the field of nuclear energy, nuclear radiation safety. Each law provides for the responsibility of officials, natural persons, for violating the requirements of these laws. The Administrative Code is the very mechanism that enables these rules to be applied to wrongdoers. The bill provides for the leaving and determining of three offences, violations of the rules of nuclear and radiation security, the carrying out of activities without a license when the licence is provided for by legislation, as well as systematic failure to comply with the requirements, the regulations of the State inspectors of those legislators. The purpose of the law is to increase the effectiveness of legislation in the field of nuclear energy use, as well as to prevent accidents, radiation, radiation, and radiation. The bill was discussed in the Supreme Council’s profile committees, also in the Committee on Legal Policy, and there was support. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u56	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Konstantinovich Bronnikov, co-reporter. From the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Safety and Nuclear Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u57	System. Dear colleagues! The system of rules and regulations that operate in nuclear energy provides for the regulatory regulation of any small matter which, subsequently or collectively, may affect the gross breach of the safety of the production of works, the gross violation of the qualifications of authorized personnel. In this regard, the bill proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers introduces a system of administrative responsibility for minor violations not to be committed in the nuclear, energy and energy complex. The Committee therefore unanimously supported the bill and requested the Hall to support it in order to preserve the necessary culture of exploitation of our nuclear facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u58	Thank you. Please sign up for the presentations on this subject. I'd like to give you a list of names on the board. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, prepare Solomon. Yeah, Carmazin's gone, then Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u59	We can't get through.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u60	So you're sitting here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u61	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Solidarity." Ladies and gentlemen, the question is actually raised very seriously, the question is raised, and which is rightly raised today, about increasing the level of responsibility on such serious subjects. And I'll remind you that they're modifying the draft law, they're made up of rules that complement, abolish and modify the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, and they're made up of several chapters. And in general, when asking what about the new edition, let's say 188 articles with the 16 badge, it will now be written: "Failure to meet the legal requirements of the statutes of officials who exercise public oversight of compliance with the requirements of nuclear and radiation security, not to provide them with the necessary information, or to provide false information, to make other obstacles to the performance of their duties." In fact, this formulation is taken from what we once wrote in the Criminal Code, including about not providing us, MPs, information, and I welcome such an approach that it should be unified, it's very important right now. The only thing that I think is this variance in sanctions: from 5 to 15 non-taxable minimums for providing false information is very, very little. The fine should be increased here because the offence is very and very serious. That is, if not provided, false information is given to officials who are overseeing the state's compliance with nuclear and radiation safety requirements, and more than that, from time to time, you know, Ukraine is rumored. Yesterday, the voters called yesterday, "Is that true what happened? Is it true that there's been another expulsion from a station or something?" That sounds like us. Then we, the people's deputies, turn to you and say, "Obviers, let me know." So a very high level of risk and a very high responsibility for not providing true or false information to you too. So I propose to increase here by a dozen times, I emphasize, by a dozen times, to increase the sanctions, and for this offence 188-16, and 164-13, a violation of the order of activity, it's without a license if it's provided by legislation, and a violation of the rules and norms of nuclear and radiation. There's a fine of 10 to 100 untaxed, 170 bucks. Is this the punishment that corresponds to the harm that can be done? It seems to me that society must be adequately protected and properly protected through sanctions. Sanctions, I don't have any claims, I don't have sanctions -- I have claims. They're very, very soft. Please strengthen them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u62	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u63	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Dear colleagues, the bill is very important and necessary. But at the same time, I must join the best friend of the disadvantaged people of Ukraine in a part that deals with the recognition of lack of administrative penalties for violations of radiation safety standards and regulations. Now our committee, together with the Ministry of Emergency Situations, is studying and reviewing once again the circumstances that led to the accident at the Chernobyl AES in 86. And we're going back and forth again and again, including those documents that were made in those distant times and now we're looking at the new circumstances that are opening up. The main conclusion of the CHAES accident is not only that the staff, starting with the nuclear power plant management of a radioactive and nuclear-hazardous facility and the other personnel of the station who conducted the infamous tests that led to the accident, but also, in general, the situation in the field of nuclear power use in Minpalevenergo was defined as a lack of a proper culture of use of extremely dangerous nuclear energy in the face of a misunderstanding. So I want to emphasize that this law is just a step in increasing this responsibility. But not by applying administrative measures, it is an intermediate step, but by increasing the culture of production on such extremely dangerous objects and cultures of all those working in such productions and even by reporting in the media this situation of work on such productions. The law must be passed, it is necessary, it is in our favor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u64	Yes, Andrew School. You don't? Peanut.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u65	Dear colleagues! I believe that this law must be supported for several reasons. The first, greater danger than nuclear stations, is not present in the country today. The second issue is that this law has been prepared by our colleague, former director of the Pronnikov nuclear station, a professional of a high species. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u66	Yeah, everybody's on the phone. Therefore, the question is closed. Vadim Vasilovich, do you have anything? Please sum it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u67	Nothing. I thank you for those critical comments, and I believe that in the second reading, indeed, this responsibility of officials should be increased.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u68	Yes, thank you. A review of the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the violation of nuclear and radiation safety rules has been completed. A draft law on the cost of unpaid natural gas is being announced for consideration. Mikola Rudzkowski, please! Reporter, member of the Committee on Fuel Energy for Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u69	Dear National Deputies! Bill 2413-1, prepared by the Group of People's Deputies of Hapoczka, Baranowski, Rudenko, Rudzikowski and others, aims to settle the financial situation that has arisen around the gas-supply companies for several years. So between 1995 and 98, gas-supply companies provided gas to all consumers in Ukraine. Commercial enterprises were calculated according to a fixed dollar price, and supplies for the municipal economy and the population were made according to the Ministry of Economy’s decision on the fines. So Ukrgazprom was importing Russian gas at the time, fixing the cost of 80 dollars on his own balance sheet, handing over 80 dollars to liars, and the heat-communeers and the population were converting 2 bracelets at the time, and releasing gas from their balance sheet. There was a population debt that didn't pay the money on time, first. Secondly, the local aid and subsidies budgeted 30 or 50 percent of the need. So over the course of several years 1995-98, the volume of gas that was delivered to the population was systematically unpaid. The dollar exchange rate was changing at the time, and let's say, according to the 1995-1998 bookkeeping, the companies had released gas volumes, received payment in the bracelet equivalent, paid off the Krugasprom, which, in turn, paid the Russian gas suppliers, but the debt of utilities before the frauds was zero, while the bribes before the round-up were large in relation to the exchange rate on one side, and on the other hand, due to the fact that the State had not paid in full the amount of the benefits and subsidies. This situation has a very painful effect on the financial situation of now oil and gas-supply companies in Ukraine. Why? Because this debt cannot be written off as hopelessly lost in connection with new tax liabilities, income taxes. And that's why in this situation, the only way to help the oil and gas industry is to adopt the right law, and in 1995-1998, to write off the debt as a separate law. The bill received a positive conclusion from the expert board, and the Committee on Finance and Banking also recommends that it be adopted on the first reading. The Ministry of Economics, Finance, Justice has made its remarks, but in general, Deputy Prime Minister Hayduk also recommends that the bill be adopted as necessary by letter to the Supreme Council. And that's why I'm addressing you, honourable national deputies, in order to ensure the stable functioning of the gas-efficient system in Ukraine, to adopt this bill, it will help to ensure the secure stability of the system and, on the other hand, will guarantee timely payments to the current payments budget of NACOM Naftogaz Ukraine. So this doesn't have any effect on budgeting. This only makes it possible to do the right thing for the NAC accounting service Naftogaz Ukraine to stop being bankrupt. This will have a very positive effect on both the image of the state and the stability of the state's energy supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u70	Thank you, Santa Claus. Please take the government's position on this. Any government reps? Please take a position on this bill. Vladimir Illich Sheludchenko, First Deputy Chairman of the NAC Naftogaz Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u71	Deputies! Our position coincides with the position of the Supreme Council and the MP Rudzkowski and a strong request for support, as this will in fact stabilize the work of NAC and will enable more efficient and natural expansion of additional funds to the budget thereafter. This debt has accumulated in recent years for a certain reason, and therefore please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u72	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Anatolyevich, please. Vitaly Šibko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u73	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I am surprised that the government today has not come on such an important issue. Because as the government's representative of Naftogaz Ukraine, for which they're supposed to be cheating, I don't have a tongue or any part of my brain coming back. I just can't figure out how NAC Naftogaz can realize himself. I'd advise Naftogaz to figure out what you spent your actual debt to the companies. The capital, the capital, and others. Tens of millions. Do you think you're going to steal everything in Ukraine now? We'll have to answer anyway! And this project, unfortunately, is not meant to make us understand everything that's going on in the country. See article 3, “The Order and the Conditions of Deception. ” Who Is Deceptive? Write-offs are subject to the cost of unpaid gas supplies. Two dots. Budgets for all levels of payment of benefits, subsidies, price differentials; budgetary institutions and organizations; thermal companies; open-air stock companies; gas supply and gasification; DK "Gaz Ukraine", NAK Naftogaz Ukraine. This is article 3.1. Now. Do we have the conclusions of the Committee on Budgets, or do we have the conclusions of the Minister of Economics? I won't. Do we have the conclusions of other government structures? I won't. What does the Minister of Finance think about him, he's the first Vice Prime Minister, Mikola Azarov? I don't know. What does Janukovich think? I don't know. Well, maybe one of them or Janukovic, or the minister of finance, will comment on what article funded the President's flight to Novgorod on personal matters, where a person from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was killed. [[His kingdom of heaven]] Well, how about we make it up to you? Or let's give the law about cheating. That's why I don't think the law is justified enough. We don't have these documents, and what's going on in this area is fuel-energy -- it's already so criminalized that we can't move anymore. I'm against total cheating. If you cheat, it's the budgets, and it's the budgets, and it's not cheating on everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u74	Vitali Jakovitch Šibko. The next one is Kosinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u75	Fast, socialist faction. I think the law is really necessary. It takes at least that, if we think of Mendeleye's words, and he said that burning gas is the same thing as burning antagonism. The gas is already burned and the money is lost, so we need some kind of legislative initiative on our part, as it's written down, all of these debts. But I would like to turn to some of the things that today is, they also contradicted in this bill that is being tabled. First of all, unfortunately, the reporter didn't remind us what companies we were talking about. I want to remind our radio and television broadcasters that it's proposed to write down the debts that have arisen as a result of the failure to pay for the gas consumed by the following companies: NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, DK Gaz Ukraine, DK Krasnos Construction and its branches, DC Ukrtangaz and its branches, as well as the BlackMornaftegaz and WAT "Ukranafta" and its structural divisions of open stock companies of gas supply and gasifications, which I'm paying attention to -- in 95-98 years, then I'll pay particular attention to this date. So the Science and Experimental Authority, as you've felt, is proposing to take this project on the basis of some of the proposals. But I would like to draw attention to what science and research is talking about, science and expertise. Debt between listed owners could have been partially written off according to the existing articles. I remind you that this is article 70 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2002 and article 56 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2002, which provided for it, quote: "Write down the debt of all budgetary institutions and budgets as at 1 January 2001 before the owners regardless of the forms of ownership that were written off from payments to the budget. In accordance with article 18 of the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Payment, the taxpayers are obliged to submit to budgets and state trust funds. I also quote in article 70 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2001: "That is, the debt of budgetary institutions and budgets of all levels to natural gas suppliers may have been partially written off; instead, the documents submitted to the bill do not contain information on the possibility of the use or non-application of regulations by gas suppliers as defined by the legislative norm. This needs to be determined in the final drafting of the law. And also solve the problem. I've drawn your attention. 1995-98. It's been eight years since 1995, and according to the law, we only have five years of financial records. Thus, it may be necessary to pay off debts to businesses on an honest basis. This should also be taken into account in final editing. Thank you. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Please, Kosinov Stanislav Anatoliyovich. Next Nadya.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, in this law, I believe, first and foremost, that we are guided by the principles of justice. Because it is not possible for one oil and gas industry to abuse and maintain part of Ukraine's main economy, despite quite a bit of turnover. Therefore, we must treat this law fairly and approach it. This law regulates the injustice that took place between 1995 and 98, when the dollar's increase was observed every day and thus, according to its return, NAC Naftegaz Ukraine was forced to pay for its own funds and profits, to pay the natural gas at its current rate, and the debt owed at the same rate, equivalent to the dollar, was unable because the budget was not set to pay for the natural gas generated by NAC Naftegaz. Thus, there was a situation in which NAC could not cancel its debts and therefore could not obtain the amount of debt, as budget organizations did not have the funds. Therefore, the purpose of this law is to resolve the situation so that today, both Naftegaz and Ukraine can cancel that debt and write down those budgetary organizations that have this debt today. I emphasize that this is only about the exchange rate. I therefore believe that this law is necessary, and we must take it as a basis for first reading and second reading. Yes, there are points related to the decisions of the courts that have been made during this period since the year 95, including at the exchange rate. But I think we have to finish it on first reading and then finish it on second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u77	Yes, Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, when listening to today's speeches, there is a question that we may not understand the subject quite correctly. The following is the subject of the discussion. The gas recipients received the gas in the bracelet equivalent, at the price of the bracelet. Those of Ukraine's Naftegaz received it in a dollar. As they pay for gas today and all the utilities, I don't think there's any point in telling you, dear colleagues, we know that. This also applies to budget commitments to those who give gas, who consume gas, to the population. I'll only get one number. This is the difference between the price at which Naftegaz received the gas and the price at which he gave it to the population and the population did not return the money, which today amounts to $269 million. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to hurt you. I would like to stress that 269 million dollars is still available. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Therefore, my colleague, who spoke before this, who said that we can and should probably seek resources, where and how to remedy the situation in the State and in the economy, but in no way should we put all the problems associated with the overall economic situation on one enterprise or on one industry. Therefore, when it is said that there is also a difference between the dollar price for gas and the sums that gas suppliers have received in their purses, it is likely that this is an opportunity for us to restore capacity for payment, this is an opportunity for us to write off today's accounts and accounts receivables at all levels, I stress, budgets, this is what we are talking about. That gas suppliers are heatcommunergo enterprises that emerged between 1995 and 1998 on the calculation of natural gas and its transport services, I stress, in the dollar equivalent. Therefore, to date, the proposals made by the deputies in the bill are normal and are economically sound. If we remove a few policies and emotions from here, I think we will all agree, the economy must act by the laws of the economy. Once we bring some other elements and moods here, we'll corner this poor economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u79	Please, Mikola Rudzkowski, and then the conclusion. One minute, let him speak. Then.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u80	In concluding this discussion, I would like to answer a few questions raised during speeches by distinguished national MPs. First of all, we're talking about a bill only for, in fact, state companies -- NAK Naftogaz Ukraine. This is the first time. Secondly, all advances will be made only in accordance with the decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers and no honest word will be made wires, I'm more convinced. But once again, I'm going to point out that in 1995, 80 dollars of gas came into the district gas administration, counted two bracelets -- 160 dollars, went to school for 160 dollars of gas, the district budget for 70 dollars, 70 dollars for the bank account -- went to Kiev, paid for, and 90 dollars for no sources, and the year ended financially, where it was 105. Ninety dollars is missing, NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, at the expense of its own income, has provided the school with heat, and then it has to think about how to get out of that pit, because it's taxed on it because it's taxed on the income tax. No commercial enterprise can stand it, and we understand it very well. Therefore, we do not talk about the year 2000 or so. There was a very high inflation, you remember, from two to three and a half, in fact, in a short period of time. There were no calculations at the time. And again, the exchange rate difference is not a source of coverage, because on the one hand, the school has paid and there is no claim to it, and on the other hand, there are tax liabilities on the chain. You can't write it down because there's a profit tax. I am grateful to the people’s deputies for their discussion, for their understanding. I'm asking you to support in the first reading, and then we're going to invite the Cabinet of Ministers, and we're going to work out such a mechanism, so that really the comments that were about the possibility of any abuse in this, we're going to adopt a law that wouldn't allow it, and we're going to set a specific number for this. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u81	Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, legislators, reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want the stenographer to have that idea. During my discussion of the subject, I mentioned a remarkable background. According to the writer, Count Alexi Tolstoy was a very expensive man and he was sitting in a restaurant somewhere and he dropped twenty or thirty copies, and he had been looking for them for a very long time because he was expensive. So Lightlov took a ten, lit him up and lighted him up to find twenty copies. We are in exactly the same situation today. I have this feeling all the time, because we don't have the structure of this debt, clearly, to see what this structure is. As far as this is concerned, Rudzkowski was speaking, the grandmother who received a pitiful pension and did not pay for it was one thing. But if that's how it's going to go down, and I have to think about it, by the way. If it is deceived that we, as it were, are still in Bachaya’s debt and so on today’s fraud, it is totally unacceptable. That's why I'm convinced that if we're blind now without the structure of this debt, blindly, we're actually going to witness that you're there, Chebak, or one of the oil-gas oligarchs, that he picks up that money. Consider it necessary, say, let the government give us the structure of these debts, and then we will make a qualified, normal and conscientious, and moral decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u83	Thank you. Please, from the government, the closing word. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ I would like to thank the MPs for actively discussing the issues and to specify a few of them in order to actually put emphasis on them. Regrettably, the relationship with the oil and gas company to date has been established in previous years. Today, the task of a public company, together with the State, is to clear up all that has happened, including on objective matters. I'm specifying the question, Mr. Yavorivsky raised it correctly. Mildness and subsidies. Lights are $114 million, they're benefits, they're purely budget allocations. Subsidy $84.7 million. In the budget organization, the direct debt of 200 million, 6.7 million dollars and the heat utility industry, which are urban, regional and utility property of 342 million and directly the population is 269 million. This is what has been done on accounting records, what has been verified, what has been recorded in the government tax administration of Ukraine. This debt was restructured, but due to the lack of working capital and the disruption of the time schedule for the restructuring of payments, restructuring payments, of course, the company could not do so. Once again, there is a return to the total debt of companies to the State, and there are fines and fines, i.e. no equivalent relationship. I urge you to be careful. In fact, there may actually be other issues related to other activities in previous years, but this is a very specific issue as set out in the accounting documents. I strongly ask, once again, thank you for an objective approach and ask for your support for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, consideration of the draft Law on the Write-off of Unpaid Volumes of Natural Gas has been completed A draft Law amending Ukraine’s laws to increase the amount of one - time assistance for the birth of a child is being announced for consideration. Reporter Hubsky Bogdan Volodymyrovich, Ukrainian National MP, author of the bill. Get ready for Lily Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u85	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Gradually, the demographic situation in Ukraine today has become a major threat to the security of the state. Because there's an uncontrollable decline in the working part of the population, an objective process -- it's getting older. And in the face of a constant lack of funds, it's the budget to raise social security that makes it impossible to develop an effective social support system for the most vulnerable population. These are the types of people that belong to young families today. And today, with nearly a third of families in Ukraine living outside the poverty line, it is the birth of a child for the Ukrainian family that has to do with large material costs. We need to pay, we know very well, both the doctor and the midwives and the maternity home need to go with their own medicine. And the trend in recent years is that mortality is almost twice as much as birth. An active step towards this breakthrough in this extremely extreme area, I would say, the difficult situation in Ukraine would be to encourage families to have as many children as possible. And in view of these circumstances, I have just proposed a bill that provides for the size of one-off assistance when giving birth to a child in the double-sized amount of living minimum laid down by law, i.e. 684 bracelets in accordance with the Ukrainian law on the approval of living minimum for 2003. So this is exactly the minimum cost of living required for the person who the Supreme Council has approved for this year. And given the real birth rate in Ukraine, the annual cost of implementing this bill will be slightly more than 240 million dollars. Are we able to solve a huge, critical problem for Ukraine for 240 million dollars? I am absolutely sure that we are obliged to do so. Today we have a steady trend in rising economic growth. The budget for the first quarter, thanks to the positive efforts of the Cabinet of Ministers, was 100 percent implemented. The government's programme of action that we've supported with all of you is projected to increase GDP this year by about 5 to 6 percent. And the next one is about 8 percent. This is what we voted for and for which the government has deliberately made a commitment to do. And this gives us the confidence that the development of the domestic economy offers the possibility and budgetary planning of a reasonable and realistic budget planning allowing for the next year to implement the law on increasing single birth assistance. Agree with me that the cost of this law is a meager sum compared to the effect it has. The implementation of this law is primarily for Ukrainian citizens, for our constituents with you, who are really looking forward to our real returns, for the specific things that we can do for them, and I've seen that through the last few weeks in the district. Indeed, people approach, ask when there will be specific help when material resources are about. The budget of the Cabinet of Ministers will be directed not only to the real sector of the economy for the construction of factories and factories, but to the execution of specific social programs, problems when this money comes to a particular person. Because there is little law to pass, and we understand it with you, and we cannot assume that by accepting it, we will allow what happens to the fate of those laws that we have already passed with you. Because we know that in 2002 and 2003, the budget said that 200 dollars for this kind of assistance was provided, particularly by a decision of the Social Insurance Fund to manage the temporary loss of employment, such as the amount of assistance offered from 1 in October last year at 320. I'm absolutely sure that today we need to set the legislators a single standard at the double level -- I emphasize the double minimum of living we've set with you. As we start from this base, looking at how this double minimum will provide concrete help in the coming years, we will start and plan to move on. Thank you for your attention. Please, ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u86	Thank you, too. Sit down, Bogdan Vladimirovich. I invite Lilia Grigorovich, deputy head of the Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u87	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood has carefully considered the bill of the Ukrainian National MP, Mr. Bogdan Hubsky, and has certainly expressed his support for the bill in the first reading. I will allow myself to reason on the points that moved us to do so. Today, much has been said and discussed about the demographic situation in the state. By the way, there's more than once from this rostrum. And every time we heard the answer, the people's deputies, we didn't have the money. The thing is, how can we fix the demographic situation? Of course, only by raising the standard of living of the population, primarily the standard of living of the child and the newborn child. That is what the proposed bill does. It is proposed to double the amount of assistance provided to both insured and uninsured persons. What's that? Today, an insured baby receives 307 bracelets, an uninsured person, and a woman receives 200 bracelets. It is suggested that this amount be doubled to 684 bracelets at the birth of a child. We do not think that this is sufficient to provide for all the needs that arise both at the birth of a child and at the provision of all the necessities. But of course, this is a step forward, compared to what has little room to do to date. Or in a country that is not only an aging state but also a state with a reputation. The demographic growth of the demographic boom? In order to do so, assistance for the birth of a child needs to be increased in order to increase child care to one year, so that, after all, assistance for the family and pay for the citizens of the state needs to be increased gradually. This is the first step. I would like to point out that France faced a similar situation. When four working people were fed in the days of De Gaulle, in the 1980s the situation changed in such a way that one pensioner was fed by two working people. And, of course, France has taken a number of steps that have been aimed at enhancing social protection for motherhood and childhood, that is to say, to stimulate demographic processes, demographic policies. Today we are taking the same step, and I am sure that our step is faithful. Therefore, members of the Supreme Council Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood propose to take the bill as a basis and to support it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u88	Yeah, let's get down to business. Please provide a list of the names of the national MPs who are registered. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Is the rabbit John? None. Anatoly Frost will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u89	Yuri Carmazin, Our Ukraine, Party of Protectors of Homeland, Solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the noble Ukrainian people! In the last year, we were reduced to half a million men. To this point, the rate of mortality was lower and the population was decreasing, it was 300,000, but the rate of birth, especially in this year, has fallen disastrously. And it's very serious that so far they don't want to publish the data, so I'm going to the Ministry of Health, and I want you to publish the data. Because according to our data, the Party of Protectors of the Country Ratio is one to forty in the rural areas of Ukraine. For one born, there are forty dead. It is estimated that five years from now, all villages will be empty. So the Hubsky bill is urgently needed, but it is only the first step. The first step is because it's a very small step. I'll tell you why it's so small. For example, in large cities, it is customary to demand from maternity homes between $300 and $500 when a child is born. It's 500, when they do Caesar's, they do the surgery, they do the baby, and then they're born with some kind of defect. What do law enforcement authorities not know about this? The Code of Criminal Procedure makes it possible to bring responsibility to all those involved in such struggles. That we're going to close the holes in this law, where we're going to write a calculation that we're going to increase from 200 dollars, and now we're going to have 300 dollars, then we're going to double that amount, and they're going to be 680,000. I think it's a good step, but it's a step too small. Of course, talking about the 240 million is not even the sums, you have to put in a monthly wage in the village, at least 100 dollars per child to encourage birth. The nation must be saved now, and the law must be enacted immediately. Where we change to the State Budget Act, we don't put it on something else, we just add it to the salary, we raise the wage and we raise it to the birth rate. We have to do this now, or it'll be too late. Let the people bear children, and the state, show their encouragement in this and raise their wages, and in the villages in general, put in the payment of 100 dollars each month to a child by the age of three. I figured, at this rate, when one to forty, we're not going to have to fund that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u90	Thank you. Anatoly Frost. I mean, you're in, right? No, I wanted a summary of your dry leftovers. We need two in favor, two in favor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u91	Anatoly Frost, 83rd constituency, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, that the issue of amending some of Ukraine's laws on increasing the amount of single-child care needs to be adopted and immediately, I think most of my colleagues will support it here. The need for an increase is due to the fact that in recent years births and population declines have been sharply destroyed in Ukraine. They're known to everyone, we know that in 11989 the population of Ukraine was about 51.5 million, in 2001 about 49 million, and on July 1st, let's say, 2002 we had 48 million people. The decline in the number of live births is linked to both the birth rate and the increase in mortality in our Ukraine, which is more than twice the birth rate. These factors are largely due to the low standard of living of the population and the high cost of having a child, as evidenced by the poverty rate of households with children under 15 years of age. Let's just take the food problem. In the 1990s, the average Ukrainian who was murdered by the communists used 3 000,597 calories in relation to food and spent 32.8 percent of his family budget on food, today the calorie diet of the Ukrainian average citizen is about 2,000,200 calories, and about 70 percent of the household budget is spent on food. In view of the fact that young people today cannot find a job, they are usually at the Employment Center, and it is clear what the birth of children is about. It's about survival. I'd like to give an example here, as they say, of my life. In time, I joined the Institute when I had a child. Then a year before the completion of this institution, two more were born, and so I was a student with three children at the station. Today, wherever I'm speaking in the audience, students and so on, please give me an example of where today a student with three children can survive in today's economic situation in our country. At that time, the State fully provided for young families, and it was possible to give birth and raise, raise, and raise children. Today, unfortunately, there is no such example in Ukraine, and if anyone has, please, I am happy to take an interest in such a situation. In 2002, our country’s assistance was limited to 200 bracelets. The State Budget Act 2003 provides for the same restriction. So, I think if we adopt this bill, and I think our faction will support it, once a child is born, it will increase from 200 to 320 thousand dollars, as established by legislation. And despite the fact that the Ministry of Labour, social protection, is warning that it needs extra funding, I think we need to find that kind of finance, and we can find it, they say, it's going to work. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who's against it? Please don't mind, because two for, two against. And a warning, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! As far as the law itself is concerned, whether it is accepted or not adopted, there is no language, I think we have to accept it. With all that there is to it is a certain burden on the budget, but this is the task that the budget is required to carry out. It should not finance benefits for industries or farms that should be profitable on their own, nor should it serve to cover the damage caused by the intransigence of government officials. It must primarily provide for such social problems. With regard to the specific problem involved in this law, even the amount offered by a colleague named Hubsky is not sufficient to cover the necessary needs associated with the birth of a child. Already, the previous speaker spoke about the cost of having a child during surgery, and so on, but even the first costs of the parents are not sufficiently high. So we have to look at this bill as soon as it's transitional, now we have to accept it, but in the future, we still have to go back to it. Another problem that arises. According to the Budget Code, this bill, if adopted and signed by the President by summer, just before the summer deadlines, will only be effective since 2004. If we don't get into deadlines, it's only going to work since 2005. Because there's a direct charge on the budget. In this context, I would very much ask that you try to accept in this case on the first reading and immediately on the whole, after the first reading without putting it on the second, because otherwise we're just losing those terms, we're not going to be able to get through them. And the last. This does not directly apply to this bill, but is linked to it. We simply have to go back in parallel with this to the General Assistance for Children Act and especially for children with disabilities. I think everyone who's a major, and I think not only do they know exactly what kind of situation the parents of children with disabilities are in. It's just a disaster. These people don't even survive anymore. It's a tragedy. So I would very much like to consider this law only as part of a complex approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u94	Thank you. Vitaliy Shibko gives the word to the national MP Vernigori, who is against it, right? No, well, the fourth man.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u95	Leonid Vernigora, socialist faction, Committee of Social Policy. Mikola Efremovich, don't be surprised, I don't mind doing that, but today he's a heroic act when a child is born, paying double the standard for birth. I am a member of the government of the Social Insurance Fund for temporary loss of employment, which is the only one who finances the birth and care of the child. So we have all the free leftovers we had since last year, as you remember, we set up 80 bracelets for the care of the child this year. That's all the money. Where we're going to get that kind of money, I don't know. So I am fully supportive that our mothers receive double encouragement for birth and for parents not to sit around without work and that by 2025, as the United Nations predicts, we will be only 25 million or by 2048, so I am in favour of encouraging our birth. But I would like this law to be done by Mr. Hubsky, a colleague of Hubsky, not just to offer twice as much assistance at birth. Let's sit with you on three committees and calculate how much money we have to increase proportionally when we give birth to encouragement and care for a child up to the age of three. Otherwise we don't have any socio-demographic explosions. And I want everyone to understand that, so consider my speech to ensure that the children are born, but against adopting the law so unilaterally, he will not give anything. There's a few there, small sums of money, let's proportionally divide them into births, so let's do it, and take care of the baby. Yes, Mikolo Efraemovich? So consider me what I'm up for.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! I understand. One minute later, a black man and a Nicaraguan woman were written down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u97	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I object to being limited to the adoption of this law. We need to adopt the program, the State Programme for Motherhood and Childhood Support, and give careful attention to this issue. Of course, this bill should be adopted, thanks to Hubsky for preparing and proposing it. But it's not the solution, it's the palate, it's the first step on this path. The extinction of the nation is taking place. And if we do not take care of the child, the mother, then such a state will have no future. So I urge us to pursue a consistent, strategic, forward-looking policy of supporting motherhood and childhood. And this law is a small step on this path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u98	Please, Stanislaw Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u99	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. In itself, the theme raised by the national deputy Hubsky is absolutely just. But I have a lot of questions. Well, we're mothers at birth today, and that's definitely what we need to do. But what will happen next? This child will be born and will go to the nursery. What will it be for, at what cost, to stay in the kindergarten? Is this the answer to the problem? No, it's not. She goes to school, and at school today they also demand a fee for services and so forth. Solving the Problem? No, it's not. Why don't you let this kid join the college? No, it's not. Because today, 70 percent of the pay is paid. Is she going to fall, God forbid, to the hospital, to solve the health problem? Guy. Orphanage today, God forbid, will be orphaned by this child, and she will be taken to a vocational school or another educational institution today. Who's going to tell me today how much we pay to keep an orphan for the day? 3 bracelets 50 copies. Well, spend $3.50 when there's no father, no mother, no place. And that money's going to be delayed. So I think, let's say that in order for the National MP to get into the history that he solved this problem, this bill fits. But in order to solve the state-wide problems of social protection for our population, no. So you need a state complex social program where you solve all the problems that I'm talking about. Today, one MP is bringing in one, tomorrow the other one is the third one and boasting in front of the electorate. And then what? Where is production? Unemployment. Where's the economy? None. And we'll be alone in front of each other, bringing in who's first to pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u100	Yes, the discussion is over. Two words, please, from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Lydia Mikolayevna Drozdova. Yeah? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u101	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The idea of a bill to increase the amount of single birth assistance that will to some extent contribute to the country's birth is supported, but when this bill is adopted, it is a request to take several circumstances into account. First of all, the legislation already in force has a higher amount of aid, which is 307 dollars for this year. But the State Budget Act, which takes into account the state's financial capabilities, is paid in the amount of 200 dollars. According to interested ministries of the central apparatus, it is considered necessary to increase the size of all forms of aid, since the national MPs have already noted that care for a child by the age of 3 is paid for assistance to uninsured persons of the size of 40 bracelets and insured persons of the size of 58 bracelets. And then you have to take into account that the extra cost is going to be over 178 million dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u102	A review of the draft law amending Ukraine’s legislation to increase the amount of single-use assistance at birth has been completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. Dear colleagues! Why don't we take a quick look at the draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws on rural education and health care? Is there no objection? So then you'll say your position, the agrarian committee will say its position, let's continue our work for another 10 minutes, and we'll discuss this quickly. No objections? Please, Stepan Bogdanovich Gavrish. Then get ready for Shewchenka and Nikolaynka. I'll say very briefly, dear colleagues, and that's where we're going to end up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, I'm going to give an extremely brief presentation on the substance of this bill, which is set out in a small regulatory change that concerns the law on education and the provision of certain preferences to those who are raising a third of the Ukrainian nation living in the village today. The crisis that has taken place in agricultural production, which will have an even more complex extension during harvesting, is also the cause of the deterioration of the social situation of those, the part of the rural intelligence that is involved in the cultivation and medical care of people in rural areas. I'd like to give you just a few digits. 97 percent of rural schools do not have a computer base. 70 percent of university graduates are not going to work in the village, finishing up higher education in cities. Finally, only 5 percent of rural people, unlike 40 percent of urban children, speak a foreign language. And it's just a little bit of statistics that show that rural education today is not accompanied by the active attention of the state to improve the standard of living of the teachers themselves, which, in addition to teaching and providing medical services themselves, it's about health workers of different levels and levels of work, and it's about working them not even on the ground, supporting the household, looking for coal, wood for winter, and so on. Therefore, the proposed bill proposes to introduce an allowance of 25 percent to the salary of teachers of schools and public health workers working in rural areas. This is an effective and major honest action that will allow for a balance between rural and urban education and health - care workers. Working and living in the countryside is much more difficult. And that's what everyone understands. Thus, raising the wages of rural teachers and health - care workers is not the manna of a heavenly one; it is only a step toward balancing their working conditions with city colleagues. Rural schools are not often sponsored by mecenati, and rural budgets are virtually empty; they do not provide additional funding for school development and teachers ’ wages. To date, the average salary for school teachers in the village is 201 bracelets, and rural health workers are less than 186 bracelets. It's all their money, no other title and rank payments they don't have. The salary increase is about 232,000. The teachers of rural schools and 162 health workers. Based on the average salary of 201 and 186 dollars, it will require an additional funding of 230 million dollars. That's right. These are real costs that we can allocate in the 2004 budget. We propose to introduce this law into force on January 1, 2004. In this way, not only will we improve the quality of education in rural areas but we will also improve the level of social protection of educational and health workers. In the field of teachers and public health workers working in rural areas, 25 percent of the wage supplement will increase the attractiveness of rural work, allowing young professionals to attend rural schools. This will improve the motivation of teachers, doctors to work in rural areas and, as a result, improve the quality and quality of life in rural areas. In addition, the bill proposes that the right of medical and pharmaceutical workers to a night’s allowance be legally strengthened, for completing their duties, for extending the service area or for increasing the amount of work they do. Note that a doctor in the village walks on foot, sometimes tens of miles [10 km] to an outpatient. which does not have proper technical and even sometimes medical care. This also compares the rights of health - care workers with those of education. who are entitled to such payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u104	Thank you, Stepan Bogdanovich. Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the Agrarian Committee. Very short, please. to prepare Stanislav Nikolayenko from the Committee on Education and Science.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u105	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, national deputies! Alexander Shevchenko, 39th constituency, Dnipropetrovština, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine Draft Law No. 2008 on State support for the social development of the village, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gavrish, at a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, was considered. The project is intended to complement article 51 of the Ukrainian Education Act and article 71 of the Ukrainian Law. the basics of Ukrainian legislation on health protection in the area of the establishment of pedagogical, scientific and pedagogical employees of public institutions operating in rural areas. What led to the drafting of the bill? It is not news, the vast majority of the education guarantees provided by article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act to teaching, science and education workers and other categories of education workers regardless of their location, that is not true. They either stop or are not fully implemented. This is particularly the case with respect to the remuneration of teachers and professors of education for years, the provision of educational staff with an annual salary of up to one full-time job salary, the exemplary performance of service duties, the payment of educational and academic assistance to staff in the form of a month’s salary. These standards are stopped or implemented in terms of size and order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, within the limits of the expenditures included in the national budget of Ukraine and the local budgets. Article 87 is not implemented, paragraph (g) of the Basic Health Law, which provides for the right of health workers to be set up in public health institutions, irrespective of location, average rates and official salaries at a level not lower than the average wage of industrial workers. The implementation of this law is aimed at improving the quality of education and health care in rural areas, and although the adoption of the law will lead to an increase in expenditures from the Ukrainian State Budget, these expenses are justified and are aimed at involving highly qualified specialists in rural areas. The Supreme Council Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood supports the proposed changes to the 25 - percent wage supplement in public health institutions located in rural areas. The purpose of the bill is to create favourable conditions for graduates of higher and secondary special medical and pedagogical institutions to work in rural education and medical services. Therefore, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis in the first reading with further work on all observations. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u106	Thank you. Mr Stanislaw Nikolaynko, Head of the Committee on Education and Science
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u107	A socialist faction. Head of the Committee on Science and Education. I think that Stepan Bogdanovich Gavrish, introducing this bill, clearly noted the tendency to fail to implement existing legislation in the fields of science, education, health, and culture. Because if this legislation were to be implemented today, that is the opinion of our science and education and defence committee, Kruczkov supports this issue in general today. See for yourself, if Article 57 were to be implemented, we would today have to pay rural teachers for electricity, water, utilities, quarterly payments, and so on. 87, I think the foundations of legislation, health care are the same, the foundations of the culture of legislation are the same. I was in the prime minister's budget, we need 126 million a year for rural teachers, 10 million for health care professionals and 20 million for culture workers, and that's about 200 million. To keep their dwellings warm, to keep the water warm. I mean, within the framework of existing legislation, the problem of housing is solved. What about the earth? Today, half the majority of teachers don't have land, especially land rations, even though the education law did not give them the average share of the land. This question today, even what the bills are today, what to give, is no longer something to give, the whole earth is cleared up. So the question of wage supplement, I think, can also be ruled out. If we introduce paragraph 1 of the Education Act, this is Article 57, "Incentivisation to the Middle Industry." This will double the pay in education, and the same law in medicine will double the pay in culture to the average in the national economy. And today, the teacher could get $560. And you don't have to separate him from the city. What does the city’s teacher do today? What's he got? So I think we can agree on this whole idea, and we need to solve it, as they say, "Don't break into the window when the door is open," by implementing this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u108	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov. Then who will insist on the performance?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u109	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština With the collapse of the colonies and councils, a neglected and social sphere in the rural area, which has been heavily invested in development. Because everything was done for the people and for the people. Now this sphere is a burden for the new masters. They do not need it in the light of the predatory attitude toward the land from which the last forces and juices are drawn, leaving little to it. Unless we're looking at the destructive process of mass closure of clubs, children's institutions, nursing homes, there's been a sharp reduction in district hospitals, outpatients and obstetric and obstetric centres, which have been passed on to local governments, the cost of keeping them small. There are no medications or qualified medical personnel around at times. How to provide health care for the rural population under these conditions. Who in this country can answer that question? Not much better in the countryside and with the development of education, there is the closing of schools, which are also on the balance of local councils. The material and technical supply of educational facilities is barely Jewish. Even the teachers don't have enough to pay. They also forget about the benefits. Why are so many children not attending school today? It's a shame to admit it, but they don't have anything to wear, they don't have warm clothes, they're even hungry and they're cold. It is not surprising, then, that there is a rapid spread in rural areas of childlessness and homelessness, drug abuse, prostitution, and criminal manifestations of all kinds. Unless we, the MPs, should be concerned about out - of - school work in rural schools, a low level of schooling, not to mention computerization and other progressive teaching methods, for they are in their initial state. What is currently taking place in the countryside as a result of the introduction of crime, otherwise not called agrarian reform, frightens the consequences. In general, I think that this law should be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u110	Yuri Anatolyevich, please give me one minute. Tell the entity as you can.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u111	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Long - Suffering Ukrainian People! The law that passed today on State support for social development in the village of People's Deputies, Stepan Gavrish, I just want to bow down, Stephen Bogdanovich, to you for making it, first. And second of all. It is a continuation of what we discussed -- the law of Bogdan Hubsky, who proposed. But this law goes on to isolate the issue of the village itself. Please pay attention. Here I did not understand our colleague’s speech today when he said that there were courts that were different from the city’s teachers. And I'll tell you what the difference is. The difference is that the decisions of the courts under article 57 that are adopted are not executed around here. The decisions are taken by the courts, and the District is obliged to pay. They say, "No money." They refer to the budget and hide accounts, transform accounts in other banks, and this fraud thrives. Today, hundreds of thousands have failed to make such decisions. It is not a matter of concern to some authority from the government of Ukraine. So those proposals, which are, in particular, measures to improve the living standards of multi-child families living in rural areas, are set out in article 4 of this law, where monthly material assistance is foreseen for the size of two minimum wage, is 2 times 237 -- that's 674 bracelets, that's right. But you have to complement what has to be stimulated by both two and three children, and that's one minimum wage. Moreover, if we say that this law is populist, or is it nepopulistic? A totally non-populistic law passed by Stephen Gavrish. Why Nepulistic? He suggests that loans be granted to families of graduates of higher and secondary special, medical, educational establishments for up to 30 years. What does he propose? At a rate equal to the National Bank’s interest rate of 5 years. The National Bank gives the refinancing rate 7 percent, the commercials give and then give the village 20-28. And he says, "Let's just do this bet." I mean, don't rob people at the expense of them. Therefore, this law must be adopted immediately in two readings and amended by the Budget Act. It will cost the state, and we will save the nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u112	Thank you. Valentin Petrovich Yakovenko, Deputy Secretary of State. Very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u113	Very short. Deputies! Taking into account the specificity of the location of agricultural training establishments, I had in mind techniques, higher education institutions, that they are located not only in rural areas, but in specialised villages, so I would ask for part 1 of article 57 of the Ukrainian law on the world to be presented, without altering any substance, in this edition: "Pedagogical and scientific pedagogical workers who work in public education, vocational and technical institutions located in rural settlements and urban settlements have an allowance of 25 per cent of their official salary." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-14-m0.u114	Yes, dear fellows! If there is no objection, then let us agree that we will consider the draft law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on rural education and health care as a final consideration. The decision will be made in the proper order. Thus, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 3 p.m. parliamentary hearings. Problems in business development in Ukraine, regulatory policies of the state and measures to support small and medium-sized businesses. And also at 4:00 a.m., work in committees and factions. Tomorrow is the day of the Supreme Council's decision. Thanks for the job.
