ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:24]] Registered -440 Registered in the 440 National Deputies Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! As you know, we made changes to the Supreme Council Rules, that is, we returned to work on Tuesday under the 2000 principle. We agreed on a meeting schedule for this week and Tuesday. Given that we have extremely many questions that we have discussed and that we need to make a decision accordingly, this day is a real decision. When we exhaust our decision - making process, let us move on to the subject. You have a list of the questions you are asked. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? In order to get Parliament's work back to normal, I understand that a breakup is necessary, and I ask you to sign up. Let's talk for 10 minutes from the procedure. Well, please, calm down, dear fellows! Why don't you sign up? Now let's figure out what we're gonna do. Wait! I'll put statements from factions to the vote. Just calm down. You can't vote, sit down! I'm going to put a question to the vote, and you're not going to vote on what statements make of factions! Dear colleagues, let's consult. Dear National Deputies! Calm down, we'll be home in a minute and we'll be 45, 50 minutes, just calm down! You can't vote! And the decision will not be made! Dear colleagues, one minute! Vladimir Filenko, come on! Dear National Deputies! Since we voted and decided that statements from factions are now being moved from Tuesday to Wednesday, and from Wednesday to Friday, there is now insistence, and I will put to the vote to now 45 minutes to make statements from the factions. And you will be determined, please. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE No! No!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u2	Why not?Oh, my God! I'll put it to a vote, then let's vote! I'm all making offers. Well, then, take your seats. I understand, but vote! I'll do it again. Dear colleagues! But let's not show aggression here, let's not show it in the hall. Now, let's just sit down, you have three men or five in there, hand it over and say it. Once again, honourable colleagues, there are two suggestions to exchange thoughts from the procedure and with motive for 15 minutes. We obviously don't need a vote here. There's another suggestion to spend 45 minutes right now, to set aside time for the presentations of authorized factions, MPs, to express their position as we continue to work. I'm voting for a second proposal, 45 minutes. [[10:08:13]] For 207 The decision is not taken. So 15 minutes in a different way, please check in. Igor Šurma, the faction of SDP in one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u3	Please pass the word to Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u4	Who should I tell?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues! It was very difficult for us to decide whether we should vote today. We don't understand why you're indignant. You have been protected in all your travels by law enforcement agencies. If you want to thank them, do not insinuate them, but send them a letter of thanks for ensuring your safety. Thank you for your attention! And let the Parliament do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u6	Anatoly Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u7	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! Ukraine has experienced extraordinary events. What happened in Donetsk, what happened in Lviv, is a continuation of the oligarchy desire to establish an illegal dictatorship. These methods are already purely banditic, and the Supreme Council, as a higher legislative body, must stop such a development. This was the case the other day with the fascination of the Ukrainian Writers’ Association. This is a violation of normal, democratic procedures. That's why the Supreme Council has, and I suggest you call it in here for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u8	Thank you. Microphone! Stanislaw Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u9	Nikolainka, a faction of socialists. I'd like to give it to Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u10	Alexander Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! I address both the audience and the radio audience. It's not because MPs don't want the work of the Supreme Council. Because what is being done in the state today is an example of how crime is taking the head of the state. This is a development of the situation that has arisen in today’s system of government. And that's why we need to listen to the reports now, the information of the heads of power structures on how a police officer can send him in three letters today, and he comes back, wipes out and goes, because he understands what he's doing on a specific occasion of crime, not the state. So we have to listen now, because we can't miss this event with Parliament's attention, like other events: in Lviv, in other places -- we can't. I insist that these reports take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u12	Thank you. National Deputy Alexiyuk, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u13	Please pass the word to Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u14	Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u15	On October 29-31, there were events in Donetsk that showed how the bush and its surroundings were going to organize the President's election on October 31, 2004. The All-Ukrainian Assembly of Our Ukraine began late, not in the officially rented Palace of Youth, but in the area near the Chateau Hotel. The fear and insidiousness of the Donetskian authorities, and more specifically the insolence, was felt not only by the assembly participants who had identified the conditions of the so - called replacement of the forum sites but also by tens of thousands of daughters who had seen the fascist symbolism on the run, which was granted permission to host by the local Donetsk authorities. What would it take to achieve after the 58 years of the Fascism in Ukraine with the permission of the so-called Donetsk authorities, and more specifically the criminal incense that governs the ball instead of the power in Donetsk, would be exposed to hundreds of races with fascist symbolism with one purpose to intimidate the daughters. You thought to intimidate Yushchenka by reminding him of how the Fascists tortured his father in the shades of Auschwitz. Remember, Janukovic and those who wrote this script at the Medvedchuk and Kuchma Administration, Ukraine is not a zone where they operate! A special merit in fuelling the conflicts was the leadership of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the branch office in the Donetsk region, which received commands directly from Kiev. The position of the Ministry of Education deserves special attention. After Kharkiv, where thousands of students were released from their classes and sent to the area in Donetsk, for the break of the forum "Our Ukraine". Free access to alcoholic beverages was available to the student youth. Who else could the daughter’s authority have involved? The marketers, they were taken to the square apparently because the opposition wanted to raise fixed taxes. Janukovic and Azarov may have forgotten that it was they who raised the offer to raise fixed taxes three times, and all four opposition factions voted against it: "Our Ukraine," Communists, Socialists and BUT. But what was most interesting was the reaction of the simple daughters who greeted Yushchenko’s buses on the streets of the city, where the authorities failed to pay for the plates. What did these events show? And at the airport.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u16	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u17	And at the Youth Palace, where about thousands of young men were heated with vodka, they were setting up provocations against members of the group under the protection of brothers and militia. But what was most interesting was the reaction of Prime Minister Janukovic, he went down to the diapers. Mr. Janukovich, we need to change the team, not the diapers, they're coming. Therefore, one conclusion is that in the area of Donetsk, the laws of Ukraine do not work, but the laws of the zone do. People who have always been in conflict with the law are trying to transfer this to all of Ukraine. That's why we're demanding the creation of a commission of inquiry on October 29-31 in Donetsk. Listen to the report today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u18	You've already stood up for everyone. Ten seconds, that's it. You used the rule you passed on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u19	Minister of Education, Home Affairs, Head of the Board and Prosecutor's Office of Ukraine on these events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u20	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Please sit down, please, you've already spoken.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u21	Thank you. Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u22	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u23	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! We are a faction of Communists who claim to have been outraged by the situation and developments in Ukraine, which have taken place not only in October of Donetsk but in the last 12 years, the so-called independence of Ukraine. We Communists have warned all the political forces that anti-communist hysteria, the constant abuse of us, the communists, and the supporters of the left-wing ideas will lead some political forces to form an oligarchic system of power, and we are witnessing that this process has just come to an end at the start of the new presidential campaign. So when we talk about the conclusions that we need to make, first of all, we need to conclude about the sequence of interests that we stand for on behalf of the people rather than defending the interests of certain political or economic or financial or oligarchic representatives and groups in one or the other political forces. That's why we Communists demand that the full scope of the investigation be carried out both in Truscavec and in Lviv, in Equino, when, on the basis of anti-communist hysteria today, the principles of democracy are destroyed and, unfortunately, there were certain political forces involved that today reap the results of their previous policies. And two suggestions. First. We need to consider, consider the question of bread and the faction of Communists made proposals, as well as consider the urgent recall of our boys soldiers from Iraq. Because that's where our people die today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u24	Yuri Crook. The faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u25	Please pass the word Desert Tenko to Valeria Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u26	Valerius Pavlovich Desert Tenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u27	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Honorable National MPs. The faction of the People's Democratic Party also discussed the events that took place in the Donetsk region. We believe that such events should not occur in any region. Because all political parties are equal, they deserve further development, just as our whole country deserves further development of the political system in our country. And we condemn the actions that took place in Donetsk. I can say the next thing that I really didn't want us to be in the electoral campaign, or one or the other political power to use the oppression of the political situation in our country, which remains very and very difficult today. I would ask and appeal to all representatives of the parliamentary groups and factions to unlock the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine so that we can proceed to the voting process and move the process of discussing the events that took place in Donetsk after 18 hours. I made this offer yesterday at the Conciliation Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u28	Plužnik Games faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u29	Thank you, please pass the word to Proscorat Tamara.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u30	Tamara Proskuratov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u31	Please, there's a woman, our colleague, a female deputy. Please, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u32	Tamara Proskuratov, faction of SDPU. Dear colleagues, I, as a woman, as a mother, as a teacher, am extremely sorry and ashamed of us all deputies, that at a time when the budget was to be adopted, when teachers surrounded the Supreme Council in late Thursday, they demanded an increase in wages, a review of the budget for financing education, the dissatisfaction of doctors in financing their sector, we decide at this time, we resolve various political intrigues, when it comes first to non-adoptive laws on the basis of which proposals were made to the budget, and precisely to clarify political intrigues, to clarify our ambitions, the requirement of presidential new elections. And that's why I'm proposing to stop all of this right now and start talking about the bill anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u33	Leukko Lukyanenko, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u34	Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party, Yulia Timoshenko Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! I would like to brief you on what happened in the Association of Ukrainian Writers. From all over Ukraine, a group that was dissatisfied with the leadership of the National Writer Association on the part of Vladimir Yavorowski convened meetings. At this meeting, which was not informed by all members of the Writer Association, another person was promoted and selected. During that time last night, automatics in some civil form began to break into the House of the Writer Association. There was a guard, an ordinary woman, and she was dragged into interrogation somewhere. And they didn't show up, they didn't show up, they didn't show up, they didn't show the prosecutor's approval. Why is this so? Ladies and gentlemen, we are the higher legislature, and in our eyes, the executive power is starting to act like it is in a Fascist state. These are gangster methods. But there are normal statutory methods of choosing leadership in the Society of Writers, in other social organizations. Why we allow abuse of the law and watch banditry happen. I propose to the Supreme Council to call for questioning by the Minister of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u35	Thank you. John Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, what happened in Donetsk, all of this reminds you of, you know, stories from the famous work of the Saltic-Schedra "The History of One City." And the place is stupid. That is, you and I are present when Ukraine is transformed into the branch office of the generous city of Glubova, which will be ruled by the filthy. And they're going to be simmering, growing up and so forth. You realize that these things can't be forgiven. I think that what happened in Donetsk, what happened in Kharkiv, what happened in Lviv, should be considered in the Supreme Council, and this should be given political evaluation as the attack of a criminal gang, the onset of criminality on Ukraine's democratic system. And I think that the political forces behind this need to understand the full extent of this responsibility of involving Ukraine in the bandit regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u37	Yes, dear colleagues, we had a discussion for 15 minutes. I'm asking you to sit down. There were two requirements: first, I ask, honourable colleagues, to listen carefully to make informed choices during the vote, first of all to listen to information from the leaders of the power structures, the minister of education and science, that's the first requirement. The second requirement is to set up a temporary investigation commission of the Supreme Council to investigate this problem. Accordingly, I will put two motions to the vote, each separately. May I have your attention, please? The first suggestion is to listen to information from the minister of the interior, the head of the Security Service, and the minister of education and science about the events in Donetsk. Did I put it right? People's deputies please identify themselves. [[10:25:03]] For 197 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the second proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision 4326 on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to study the enforcement of legislation and to ensure the constitutional rights of citizens during the preparation and holding of a forum of democratic forces in Donetsk on 31 October 2003. I would like to pay attention to the content of this document, because it is not yet in everyone's hands. "In accordance with article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides: (1) Establish a temporary commission of the Supreme Council; (2) In the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council, include national deputies, members of the MPs and groups, one representative of 30 national deputies; ( 3) a temporary investigator to inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the end of 2003 of the results of his activities. And the fourth. Material and technical, organizational, informational, and commissioning work to be placed on the Supreme Council's apparatus. I'm betting on the vote to include the draft ruling that I read into the agenda. [[10:26:30.]] For 197 The decision is not taken. The factions, please, are out of procedure. Dear colleagues, look at the factions, it's all written there. So let's get to the point. Jaroslav Suhi, please. Then the cook, and then we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u38	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. I'm ready to report on the first issue of our agenda, which is this: "The state support in the area of return and compensation, lost, lost citizens' savings, state of recovery and prospects." Please, I'm ready. I'm in position.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u39	Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u40	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, I think you might be able to see for yourself that there will be no work today if we continue to do so. I would like to emphasize that we accuse the authorities of creating a bandit regime in Donetsk. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask and urge you, take advantage of your authority, Head of the Supreme Council, announce a recess for half an hour so that at least faction leaders can discuss this issue. Otherwise, there will be no work today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I put two motions on the vote. They didn't get any support. That's the first one. I think it would be better if representatives from the factions of Ukraine and Ukraine discussed this situation. Wait a minute! Let me finish this problem! But because, I see, there's no wish for that, and on the demand of two factions: "Our Ukraine" and "The Block of July Timoshenko," I announce a break of 30 minutes. Members of the MPs and factions, please meet in the Head’s office.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u42	Invite the national deputies to the session room. I'm asking the leaders of the MPs and factions to inform the people's deputies, which we've had a lengthy discussion over an hour and a half so that we don't have any misunderstandings again. Well, I'm asking the faction manager, as if we agreed. There's money for fish again. Ladies and gentlemen, these were discussed. I beg your attention, such questions have been discussed. First, listening to information. Second, making a decision on the commission of inquiry. The third suggestion, to ask two committees to prepare a question, is that this is the committee headed by Vladimir Stretovich and Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, and at the extended session of the Conciliation Council at 6:30 p.m., we will be able to determine how we will proceed. Well, it was perfectly normal for the Supreme Council to make a compromise proposal to bring the positions closer together so that the Supreme Council could act as the only consolidated body. Other suggestions, well, do not find support in the session room. So once again, I want to rephrase the proposal I made. First. Instruct the two committees to gather all necessary materials by 6:30 p.m. At 6:30 p.m., invite ministers of internal affairs, education and science, as well as the head of the Security Service, and hold an expanded meeting of the Conciliation Council. With all the information, let's figure out what we're going to do. One minute, you'll learn to listen, dear colleagues. (a) To hear information, if necessary, may not be necessary. (b) Make the decision to set up a commission. First, you need to have information to make a decision. It's a normal, natural decision, I think. We said we'd make it at 6:30. I said once again that at 6:30 we would determine whether we should listen to these questions. If you listen, when. When you listen, what's the cut? What a procedure. And the second. Whether or not to create a commission of inquiry, if created, in which form. I think it's a normal position to unlock the work of the Supreme Council. Wait, no committee head. I'll rephrase it for you. Listen, you don't want to listen. I'm rephrasing that I should assign two committees to prepare materials for consideration at the Conciliation Council. At 6: 30 p.m., a meeting of the Conciliation Board will be held, determined, listened to information, and determined how we will continue to respond to the event. If it's our will and it's ours. Calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-04-m0.u43	Just don't show it like that, just show it to me. I'm saying calm down. And then you'll figure it out. If we listen, when, in what sense, and in what extent. A normal offer? It's normal. I'm announcing a draft resolution on parliamentary hearings on State policy in the area of return and compensation for lost, undervalued savings to citizens. Dear colleagues! In view of the blocking of the work of the Supreme Council, I declare the morning and evening sessions closed, and please identify yourself. There will be no meeting today. That's it, thank you. Dear National Deputies! As questions arise, I reiterate that today’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed, continue to block the work of the Supreme Council.
