ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:48]] Registered -397 A total of 397 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergienko Vasil Fedorovich. Let us greet him, wish him the health of a strong, every success. Dear colleagues, today we have another notable event. For 30 years, Ivan Vasilovich Spodarenko has led the newspaper "Silski News". He is now in charge of the editorial board of this newspaper. I think it's been true heroism for 30 years to manage such a publication. Let us welcome him, the newspaper’s team, and wish him good health and success. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, I'd like to make the new procedure with the parliamentary requests that have come because we won't work for a week in order to respond appropriately to the requests of the national MPs from the relevant officials and authorities. Is there no objection? I'm announcing questions. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Victor Terrence to the President of Ukraine regarding the State-level celebration of the victims of forced displacement in 1944-1946 and 1951 from his ethnic lands in Poland in connection with the 60th anniversary of the event. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:38]] For 114 The decision is not taken. I remind you once again, requests to the President are voted first for support, then for referral. Enquiries by national deputies to other heads of other executive bodies are only announced by other officials. Groups of National Deputies - Baloga, Ratushnyak, Mihović - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budgeting for the Fourth International Sports Games of Schoolchildren in 2004 in Ukraine. Anatolia Matvienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation that took place around the Saqsa watershed of the Odessa region. Mikoli Pavluk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with the violation of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition and the State Association of Ukrmorport Damage to the State. Maria Marcus to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Zakarpat district government administration for the construction and fortification of a dam on the Tis River in the city of Tachiv Zakarpatsk district. Jury Orobac and Sergija Ratushnjak to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Head of the Administration of the State Border Service for immediate action to halt smuggling through border crossing points of Ukraine. Catherine Samoylik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the restructuring of the Ukrainian State Tourism Administration. Julius Timoshenko is acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the unlawful actions of officials of Ochakovsky, Snigury, Domanów district attorneys of the Mikolai district. Maria Markusch, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Zakartat district government administration for violations committed in the despoiling of property of the collective enterprise Rachahłahbudservis, and illegal possession of the property of the rations. Eugene Hoornik to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the inaction of the Executive Service of the Valley District Department of Justice of the Ivano-Frankow Region. Igor Yukhnowsky to the head of the State Liaison and Information Committee of Ukraine on the violation of the telephone time limits of the residential buildings of the region of Rasna city of Lvova. Mikoli Crutz to the director of the Social Insurance Fund for Industrial Accidents in Ukraine regarding the information provided by the prosecutor’s office on industrial accidents and occupational diseases. Vladimir Puzakov to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on fabricated materials by employees of the Novo Ukrainian District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Kyrovograd Region, which led to the illegal administrative arrest of Gruszczak for seven days. Vladimir Puzakov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-reaction of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the City of Svetlovodska Kirovogradska Regional Administration and the Attorney-General's Office for the collective appeal of the employees of the state-owned company "Calculator" in the town of Svetlovdsk Kyrovgrad. Jaroslav Kendzior to Ukraine’s Attorney General’s Office, Ukraine’s Security Service for Abuses, Corruption by Directors of the Lviv State Tax Administration, presented in the press investigation of Mikola Sauliev and published in the Lviv newspaper on October 30, 2003. Yes, all the parliamentary inquiries that have come have been announced. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the agreement that took place yesterday at the Conciliation Council meeting with the heads of the MP factions and groups, we have agreed that on Monday, which is the following Monday, we will have a meeting of the Conciliation Council in a limited composition, only with the participation of the leaders of the MP groups and factions at 12 o'clock in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council, because the schedule of the meeting remains with us from the previous week, it has not been implemented. Today is the day of the government. According to the government’s calendar plan today, three issues are raised: the state of the art and the prospects for protecting cultural objects, as well as the history and culture of the Ukrainian people outside it. The second question is about the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers to prevent the death and disability of the population as a result of cardiovascular and vascular diseases. And the third question of an international consortium for the management and development of the gas transport system. In view of the three questions that we have raised on Government Day, profile committees have suggested such an order of action. As for the first question. He is invited to report to the first deputy minister of culture and art of Ukraine in connection with the Supreme Council of Novohatka Leonid Mikhailovich for 15 minutes. In order to report to the Head of the State Service on the movement of cultural values across the state border of Ukraine, Fedoruku Alexandro Kasianović, up to 5 minutes. The answers to the written and oral questions are meant for Novotak Leonid Mihajlovich, in 20 minutes. A report by the head of the historical and cultural heritage committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the culture and spirituality of Giulinski Mikola Grigorovovich will be given up to 10 minutes and will be discussed for 20 minutes. Is there no objection? Then the First Deputy Minister of Culture and Arts of Ukraine, Leonid Mihajlovich, will have the floor for the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u2	Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! First of all, let me, on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers, thank you very much for your attention to one of the most important issues of cultural development, the problems of protecting and preserving the national heritage. This is testimony to the holding of the second government day of the last year, as well as the second parliamentary hearing in the Supreme Council on cultural issues. This is not comparable to previous years of independence. Convinced: We all know that cultural heritage as material, I mean the monuments of archaeology, history, architecture, city building, museum values, and immaterial: folklore, folklore, folklore -- is the most important component of our spiritual existence and at the same time regret, the most vulnerable part of the present. I would like to remind you that in Ukraine today, there are more than 130,000 fixed monuments under the protection of the state, that is, more than 11 million units of the museum fund. The state has nearly 400 museums and 61 historical and cultural reserves. I want to emphasize that 31 of those 61 reserves were created in independence years after 1991. And this is one of the strong expressions of the government's attention to these problems, the Cabinet of Ministers. Priorities for the activities of executive authorities in this area are determined by the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine on the protection of cultural heritage, museums and museums, on the export, import and return of cultural values, and a number of others. The Cabinet of Ministers program is one of the main tasks of carrying out a collection of measures to preserve the monuments, including the unique objects included in the UNESCO World Heritage List. In general, there is some work being done in Ukraine by all authorities, and I want to emphasize, in interaction with the people's deputies of all levels, with the deputies of local councils, with the public, with the media on this area of social life. In recent years, as you know, government decisions have approved comprehensive programs for the preservation of the cultural heritage of the cities of Lviv, Odessa, Kamyanza Podilski, Gluhova, Baturina, Zbariz and a number of others, the National Reserve of Sofia Kyivska; approved by the government of the development of the National Reserves of Horticia, Hersones Tavrish, Olivia. A comprehensive program for the identification of cultural heritage objects has also been approved for the period up to 2010. The Cabinet of Ministers issued a list of historic cities and towns of the city type, which includes 401 inhabitants. Our task is to implement these documents, to use them as an organic component of our modern living environment, and, more importantly, to provide a certain economic return that is not just before, and this problem has not been given much attention, but it is a very promising question. Of course, there are a number of complex problems in this matter. Very many objects are in unsatisfactory condition. More than 200 sites of national architecture need to be carried out with the most urgent tasks to date. More than $400 million is needed. In general, the government’s expenditure on preserving cultural heritage has increased. However, this year’s volume, for example, is only 30 percent of what we need. The financing of a comprehensive program for the identification of immovable cultural objects approved by the government’s decree of 9 September last year has not been resolved. What is the direction of the Cabinet of Ministers' work on solving the problems highlighted in today's agenda? This is, first of all, the creation of a legislative field. In order to implement state policy, the government has developed eight draft legislations and regulations. The most important of these have already been considered in an orderly manner before the Supreme Council. These include the draft laws amending the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Protection Act, the ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Archaeological Heritage, the National Programme for the Conservation and Use of Real Estate Heritage Objects, and amendments to some Ukrainian legislation. I would like to emphasize that this last law, essentially, a project so far, can be referred to as the first legislative act in years of independence that will stimulate imports into Ukraine of cultural values. Many countries in the world, which have a larger network of contracting museums, a greater number of objects in them, have long had legislation, however, which has stimulated imports, to return cultural values to these countries. We didn't have it. And this bill, according to the government, will largely address this issue. This is about tax evasion in importing these cultural values into Ukraine on the border. Work is under way on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code and the Code of Administrative Offences. The purpose of these amendments is to strengthen the responsibility of the administrative, criminal, monumental damage. The need for this work is extremely urgent. Yes, over the past 10 years, nearly 3,000 crimes have been committed in Ukraine in connection with the acquisition of antiquarians and works of art. Last year, 265 crimes involving assault on antiques were reported by internal affairs agencies. Most of these are registered in Odessa, Sumskia, Vinnitsky, Hmelnicka, and Kiev. Nearly 660,000 dollars have been paid for, and for today, 148 thousand dollars have been reimbursed. This year, 560,000 dollars have already been reimbursed, or progress and are significant in the work of law enforcement agencies. A large number of historical and cultural values, as well as antiquities. is used by church communities, for preservation in religious institutions. According to the analysis, these are the most important objects, including private collections, that are most likely to be stolen. The unsatisfying state of protection of these objects should be taken into account. For example, this year alone, 65 thefts of those I called were made from religious institutions. It's different. The Cabinet of Ministers, with all its limitations, is better able to finance the sector. And of course, there's been some disturbances here in the last few years. This year's budget in the area of culture is being fully implemented, museum and reserve workers have, fortunately, begun to forget what the removal of protection from these objects, as was the case in 1994-1999, the non-payment of salaries and so on. Thus, in order to improve the implementation of public policy, the government continues its work of introducing mechanisms from the involvement of non - state investments in the maintenance, restoration, and use of cultural heritage objects, encouraging those who financially support or work on monuments. Third. Improving the memory management system. In particular, as you know, the government's decision has created a new government body of government -- the State's Cultural Heritage Protection Service, which has been operating virtually since January of this year. Its structures have started to form in place. However, the position of a number of district and state administrations and district councils that form states that allocate funds to maintain the state apparatus by delaying the formation of such bodies, as required by Ukraine's Cultural Heritage Act and the Supreme Council's ruling on the results of last year's Government Day. Dear National Deputies! The loss of any fraction of the multifaceted cultural acquisition is the breakup of the only whole, and the alienation of the national heritage from its people can never guarantee its preservation, the further the multiplication. Thus, the Cabinet of Ministers has given constant attention to the preservation and restoration of cultural and artistic monuments. We know how they care about their culture in Poland, Russia, Germany, Italy, and other countries. We are here, and perhaps every young nation, all the more so that we have come from a supercentralized great state seriously behind us. There are two main aspects to this matter. First of all, the return of cultural values belonging to the Ukrainian people and exported abroad under different circumstances. This problem is one of the most delicate and complex areas of international cooperation. Let me give you an example. As you know, a few years ago, two weapons paintings were stolen from the Poltava Art Museum, and only a year and a half later, they were found in Manchester, Britain. And in order to get these paintings back, in order to keep these thieves, the more they used weapons, under British legislation, they had to be proved not by the use of weapons, not by the fact of stealing, but by the violation of antiquarian rules in this country. With this example, I would like to emphasize one thing — in a number of countries, legislation protects the so - called virtuous right-holder. The one who paid honestly and did not know that it was stolen would be theirs, even if it was really stolen and all the evidence of it. So this problem, once again, is international and very delicate in essence. Mosaics, ancient icons, self-explanatory works of decorative art, archival documents, manuscripts and old-fashioned writings, Cossack jewels -- all this enormous wealth, just under different circumstances, and at different times throughout the centuries, has been scattered around the world. Brought to Moscow and St. Petersburg after working in Ukraine by numerous archaeological and archaeological commissions, unique ancient, Scythian and Cossack things, manuscripts and old copies. In particular, the Ostromir Gospel of 1056, the Archduke of Svetoslav of the 11th century, the Patriarch of the Seines of the 11th century, the Cossacks of Samuel the Great and many others. In the 20s of the last century, the wealth of church and secular culture was exported to Moscow from all areas, including the Kyewovo-Pecher Reserve, the Armenian Council in Kamyanec-Podilski, the famous Kaputin treasure from Cherkaščina and many others. So now the government in the foreign ministry is taking steps to restore the symbols of the military and state powers of the Ukrainian Cossacks — the jewels, flags, and cannons of the Kyiv fortress, which are stored in the archives and museums of Russia. One topic is the archive of the Ukrainian rebel army, which is in the State Archives of the Russian Federation. The tragic register of lost treasures has a special place in cultural values destroyed or moved from Ukraine during the years of World War II. Unfortunately, the consequences of this can never be overcome, for according to their historical and cultural significance, each artwork is unique and unique. In order to identify and better study the return of cultural values to Ukraine, the National Programme "Cultural Values of Ukraine: Path of Loss, Ways of Return" has been approved. The first rarity, I'm talking about four fragments of michael's golden cathedral frescoes, already known to have returned from Russia to their homeland. The negotiation process continues in the direction of a further step - by - step recovery of the cathedral’s monuments. This will be discussed in more detail in the next talk. The specificity of this process provides for broad cooperation with other states on the basis of good will and international law. This process can only take place, once again, under the goodwill of a neighbor or another country in which our values exist. The government signed agreements on the protection and return of cultural values illegally displaced during World War II between Ukraine and Poland, Hungary. The concept of Ukrainian-German and Ukrainian-Russian cooperation on these issues is based on the relevant articles of agreements between governments on cultural cooperation. Another aspect is the preservation of Ukrainian monuments abroad. For example, in the United States there are wooden churches of the early 19th - century settlers, many manuscripts, archives, old copies, well - known government officials, and so forth. Generally, they are carefully preserved by representatives of the Ukrainian diaspora, but they also require the attention of our government. We have some information about cultural heritage objects in many parts of the world. It should be noted, though, that the existing intergovernmental agreements only provide for the order of return of cultural values. In addition, we have some disagreement with the institution that would accumulate and care at the state level with the issues noted. Because these problems are now actually being taken care of in some way and by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and by the Ministry of Culture, and by the State Committee of Nationalities and Migration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. One of the bills that will soon be brought to your attention is the amendment to the Act on the Export and Import of Cultural Values, which provides for coordinating the search for cultural values outside Ukraine for the Ukrainian Security Service. Of course, there are not all the problems and ways to resolve them. But I am confident that much of them still need to be decided in close cooperation between the legislative and executive authorities, taking into account the opinion of the general public, the support of the press, the radio and television, and the support of all of you with your respectable colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u3	Let us move on, fellow believers, to questions and answers. On board, please, are the names of the national MPs who sign up for questions. Do you have any questions, please? Let's get some letters. One in writing, one directly from the national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u4	There is a written question from the faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine, a deputy of Sithini. "What does the government plan to do to improve the situation with the churches, the monuments of the Carpathian architecture?" I would like to inform the distinguished National Deputies that there are 64 church buildings in the Zakartat region as monuments to architecture, but most of them are recorded, most of which are of national significance. Of course, most of these monuments need restoration work. Part of this work is done at the expense of the local budget, part by the sponsors. In the current year, a district cultural heritage service has been established as the structural unit of the Zakartat district government to deal properly at the local level. But, of course, the question is not only about Carpathians, for the wooden churches are in a much wider region — Prikarpata, Bukovina, and so on. And I want to say that the Ministry of Culture, together with the National Commission on UNESCO, has already initiated the last UNESCO General Conference in Paris, a project from Ukraine called "The Wooden Churches of the 23rd Century of the Carpathian Region of Ukraine," and we plan, at the goodwill of other countries, that this project will become a cross-border project, then it can be easier to go to a general conference, more easily to receive funding from this important international organization, and it will be easier to involve experts who have great international experience in this matter. And we want this project to be cross-border, called the Tree Churches of the Carpathian Region of the 15th-XVIIIth century of Ukraine, Poland, Slovakia and Romania. At present, with the assistance of the Foundation for the Protection of the World Heritage Fund of Germany and our Ukrainian Committee of Ecomos, Ukrainian experts are developing a programme of research into the Carpathian wooden churches, I mean both the Zakarpatsky region and the Ivano-Frankivsky, Lvivsk, Chernivetsk region. The state is, of course, looking after the wooden churches not only in this region on the coast, and therefore, in 2002-2003, urgent counter-accidents are being carried out at the expense of the State budget. For example. On a significant monument to the architecture of the national significance of the wooden George Church in the village of the townlike Sednava region of Chernigiv.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u5	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. I would ask you very briefly to formulate questions and to give a very brief answer to them, for many are willing. Yuri Carmazin. You don't? Then Vladimir Puzakov. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Basil Nadrag. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u6	Dear Leonid Mihajlovich, I represent the Lugansk region in this situation. I'd like to ask you a question. There is a large museum, popular, widely known, with international fame for the Young Guard Museums in Krasnadon. Regrettably, in his time, it was not that they ignored him but that they forgot him. A gradual recovery is under way. Local power helps, central power helps. It's a quiet thing to do. I'm interested. We're looking at the patriotic education of museums like Young Guards, how do we account for them? Are we trying to establish some national programmes on this? I mean, that's something great that was 10 centuries ago. But what was 50 years old, and more on issues like patriotic education, I think it's relevant. I'd like to hear your opinion on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u7	Thank you. This is really an interesting question, obviously, for all MPs and it's not quite easy in practical implementation. We have to start here, of course, with funding, with money. And in view of the adoption of the Supreme Council of the Budget Code, we, the central authorities and the Ministry of Culture in particular, have found ourselves in such a difficult delicate situation. For example. Or this object that you're talking about. Or in the village of the townlike Black of the Poltava region, a library was burned with perhaps the largest collection of books about the countryman Gregory Savich Skovorod. How should the Ministry of Culture and other central authorities react? Of course, you would have made money out of your budget. But this is not possible under the current budget code because you cannot mix, as you know, the State and the local budgets. So in answer to your question, specifically, I can say that through the Ministry of Culture, organizational and methodological assistance can be provided to our experts, including the National Historical Museum. For more information, I would like to support the amendments to the Budget Code made by the Ministry of Culture to the government and the government to the effect that, in some cases, funding from both sources can be allowed for cultural objects. Thank you. I have a written, written question from the head of the Special Monitoring Commission on the privatization of the People's Deputy Semenyuk. "What measures will be taken by the Government to involve NGOs in the protection of cultural heritage monuments acquired in the process of privatizing state property, housing, land and so on?".. Today, in Ukraine, a large number of cultural objects, both local and even national, are owned by legal and natural persons. This happened a long time ago, before even our privatisation legislation was adopted, that is, before 1991. And the involvement of NGOs in the protection of these monuments, which they have acquired in the privatization process, and in reality, let's say, what they have acquired before, but today they are used, is very relevant. For us, it would be best, theoretically, to say that all the monuments are protected by the police, not by the state’s even security services, which exist at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, but are a computational structure. The Ministry of Culture has twice made proposals to the Ministry of Finance to ensure that our funds, which are intended to protect us, are directly recorded in the State Budget by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and, accordingly, the full responsibility is there. So far, no decision has been made on this issue. Concerning the involvement of nonstate organizations. I wouldn't support this idea in a broad, at least, sense. Because there is experience both of us and of other Post - Soviet nations. This security system should be provided with personnel, technically, and so on and so forth. I have repeatedly consulted with the Ministry of Internal Affairs experts and they have shown me, for example, that we can have more problems than positive ones. I'm still in charge of the Ministry of Internal Affairs' military protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u8	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u9	Nicolanca, socialist faction, Hersonian. Dear reporter, today I am grateful that today is extremely much in Parliament, we will say, on Government Day, such a topic. But I wanted to say and hear your opinion about the use of our historical monuments, not just their protection and rational use. Take, for example, the Cave Laurel. Tickets for entry, especially for young people, I want to tell you, are expensive. Then, when a young man, a student, comes in -- more museums and exhibitions, more tickets! I feel that we are thus completely cutting off our young people, especially from poor families, from familiarizing ourselves with these monuments. There is international experience. We've had a good experience. When the exhibitions were held, museums were practically free for young people. You stay in the same Sweden, there's practically a day or two a week when young people walk, students walk, absolutely free and then they join these shrines, they understand that they are citizens of this state and so on. How do you feel about the use of cultural institutions, such monuments of history for young people? We can't privatize everything and put market relations in this particular field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u10	Thank you for asking. Of course, prices may be high for a certain part of the population. But on the other hand, they are the lowest of museums, I mean reserves, i.e. objects of cultural heritage, they are, I think, the lowest of all social institutions. There are district museums, there are district managers, where the entrance is 50 copies, the bracelet. And for all the problems that we have here, I want to say, over the last three years, after all the cultural heritage, we have a steady increase in attendance, we have a steady increase in non-budgetary income, which once again shows an increase in the number of visitors. And here it's important to point out that this is already, honourable MPs, without a memo. If earlier there, in Soviet times, there was a concept of the Vale, a sacred concept, and in such an area as a museum, a visit could be attributed to a visit there, and they were proud of it, today it goes through the register, and then through taxes. In this way visitors cannot be attributed, and this is not advantageous to the museum. For young people and for pensioners, I'll tell you. In all museums and reserves there are days when they go there free of charge, it's the last day of each month, it's the day of the world's April day of protection, it's the worldwide day of the museum in May and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u11	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u12	There's a question to the government from the faction "Our Ukraine." With regard to the preparation of a list of sites that are not subject to privatization and the implementation of a comprehensive programme for the passport of cultural objects for 2003- 2010 Most important, of course, is a list of sites that are not subject to privatization. He's more than ready. The problem is that this list of valid legislation can be approved by law, by the Supreme Council only after the sessions of local councils have adopted appropriate decisions, there is no other way, because there are laws on property, there are laws on local self-government and so on. Today, 17 district councils from the 25th plus the city of Kiev and Sevastopol have made such decisions. We have made proposals to the government for days, literally, to speed up the efforts of the district authorities that are late to do the work with the district councils so that such decisions can be made. And I think in the following year, 2004, the Cabinet of Ministers will certainly introduce, and in the first half of this year, not December, the law that will be called, I am giving a free lecture on the list of monuments that are not subject to privatization. With regard to the integrated passport program, which was planned for 2003-2010, I want to say that it is approved, we are this year -- the Ministry of Culture -- we are creating a separate structure within our small research institute of research and memory protection, which will be exclusively registered and will run this passport program, because without computerization, without proper system work, plus 11 million just museum fund monuments, this question will not be solved. [[I was talking.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u13	I ask very briefly, please. There's no need for lectures. National Deputy Kalinchuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u14	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Leonide Mikhailovich! Ukraine’s cultural heritage includes the pearl of the national heritage of the Odessa State Opera and Ballet Theatre. For several years now, the struggle for its preservation has been fought in the fullest sense. A number of government decrees have been adopted on this issue. Regrettably, however, decisive action on their implementation and first funding is not being made. The amount of money allocated from the district budget is not enough. There is a gap in the State budget for these purposes. Yes, for 2004, out of the nearly 40 million dollars that are needed, only 10 million dollars are planned and the government has allocated 5 million dollars, this committee from the budget is already adding 5. Is this the position of government?Oh, my God! Are we going to let this pearl of our national culture die? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u15	I don't think that's going to happen, because both the government and the Odessa district government, I know the governor's position on this issue personally, as well as the sponsors are taking steps to speed up the work here. I was there two months ago, having an substantive conversation with Mr. Greenewecki. I can't tell you now from the rostrum the figures that are set in the 2004 State Budget, because that's a very specific question, but in writing we're going to inform you tomorrow-to-morrow more about the perspective for the next year and the end, so to speak, when it's all over. I have two questions in writing from the People's Deputy, Phydenka. Its idea is to transfer facilities that are monuments to history and culture for use in religious organizations. And one more question. Are the preservation and availability of cultural values passed on to religious communities of religious buildings that are monuments ensured? This is really a pressing problem for all regions, for all areas. Unfortunately, we do not have clear control over the religious communities that have been transferred. Although the legislation provides for this. There's a certain amount of guilt in the central authorities, but you know, you're not going to get to every rural church. There's mostly no work done here. Because we have a period of romanticism like this in the first half of the 1990s. But in passing on, these religious communities did not enter into protective agreements with museums. And it now turns out that sometimes to enter a monastery, women who should, museum workers, not let in religious reasoning, because there are canons of church, sometimes there are no such monuments. So again, I say, this state-owned program by 2010, it's going to be billing. And then we passport the monuments that are in the State’s vaults and those that have been passed on to religious communities for the past decade. If we have annihilation, we do not always have it. This is true of religious communities.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u16	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u17	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Our Ukraine", Viktor Yushchenka's Block, Kiev. Ladies and gentlemen, please tell us what actions are being taken by the government to bring back from Russia the cultural monuments of Ukraine that were exported during the destruction and destruction of the Mikhail Council? Those pitiful few frescoes, which were voluntarily returned to Russia, indicate that others, the main ones, are not going to pass. And the second question is, I'd like to ask him to lead the Supreme Council. Don't you think that the level of education of the power ministers, their cultural level, and the Prime Minister, allows them to ignore such an important meeting, because today is Government Day, half of the government is gone. Obviously, these ministers, who are present, are less culturally prepared and have come to listen to these important problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u18	On the first question. I would like the distinguished national deputies to understand one thing: There is a desire to bring back the monuments, including the Council of Michael. And in this desire, we are all unanimous. But when we come to Ermitage, or the Ministry of Culture, or another Museum of Novgorod, by the way, the reserve, there we think they are, the basic question that we hear: give me the document. And these documents because they were exported to war between the ages of 20 and 30, you know when the Mikhail Council was destroyed, these documents we really can't always put in hand and show. That's what happened, it's the extreme here, as they say, you won't find, but it was before the war. And there are these frescoes in the same Ermitage, one hundred and two hundred and three hundred. They say to us, "Show us what ours are." We have the documents, the ones that stand here, they don't count. I may be so simplistic about it, but that's life. The same is true of the fact that in all our years of independence we have not been able to recover more of the same frescoes or other museum values from Ukraine. Moreover, there are interstate agreements in 1991 that you know. This is true of industrial objects and of all others. That for 1991 was where they remained, unless it was illegally moved. And today we're just returning often what was imported then in contracts and not returned. This is the subject of our work. And they gave me a note, and I'll answer it right away. Dear Leonide Mikhailovich, please tell me when the museum will finally be operational.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u19	Leonid Mikhailovich, answer the second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u20	It's about power ministers. With regard to the power ministers, I think we in the government are going to consider this a question of course and we can give the answer in more detail. As far as their presence is concerned, I mean. Please tell me when the museum of John Potter, whose treasures of Ukrainian culture are invaluable, will finally begin to function. Our Ukraine block, Kulczytsky, 261 district. So I would think that the museum last year, thanks to the Kyiv City Administration, has made decisions. The problem is, of course, as always with the property, with the need to relocate a number of families of military personnel who live in this house. This is not a simple question, especially since it is said that the apartment is five, but the apartment is ten. Thus, apartments need to be given much more by law. However, this process is going on, and I think that here in our room today, the first deputy of the city of Kiev is present, we will be able to inform you in more detail, but once again, I say, in principle, the reconstruction of this part near Lavra goes under reconstruction, and in this connection these questions will be resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u21	Victor Bunny, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u22	Please pass the word to Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u23	My dear reporter, I would like to ask you: Is the creation of a public service for the protection of cultural heritage, especially its departments, completed, and what are the problems? And when can the Ministry report that cultural heritage is properly protected in our country? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u24	Thank you. The State Cultural Heritage Protection Service, as a government authority, was created by a government decree. It works this year. It was made up of real people in May of this year. With regard to the operation of its departments in the fields, since there were never before in Ukraine such structures in the area, let’s say so, and there were no district administrations, it’s not easy. Today, about half or a little bit more, and about 16 areas have these structures. Others have been scheduled since January 1, 2004, when a new district budget was adopted. There's two problems here. Smaller than that, with the Soviet authorities, these functions were dispersed between the administrations of culture and the State Department of Culture and the State Committee of Construction and Architecture. Same place. And now these organizational problems are. Besides, as always, I think it's a psychological problem. What they don't understand, as we'll say, is that we all wanted with you here, the importance of culture, the protection of cultural heritage objects, and the appropriate importance of building this structure that would oversee. Because this structure may be inconvenient to some, and it may delay in doing so. Why isn't it convenient? But because it can have a right, more loyally, it has the right to make prescriptions, fine for illegal construction, illegal archaeological excavations and so on and so forth. Clearly, that may not be the case. But in the near future, the entire vertical will be created and this matter must be written.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u25	Yes, in writing, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u26	The letter is what the Communist faction put in. A study of specific facts on the scene shows that in the last 5-10 years, thousands of Soviet monuments have been illegally destroyed in Ukraine. Many of them were included in the State Register, so they protected the law. These are numerous monuments of Lenin, the heroes of the Yellow Revolution, the civil and the Great Native warriors, the memorial boards, and so forth. All of this has been brutally and cynically destroyed. No one was punished according to the law. A whole layer of fundamental culture has been destroyed. It requires that Minculture and Derbybud establish the exact number of destroyed monuments of the kind that were included in the State Register of Historical and Cultural Monuments. That's one question. And here's the second. I'll start with this first. There are two parts of these monuments. First. What is mentioned in this question, that is, those monuments that have been entered into some registers. As to the number of totals, we're going to give the answer in writing, but again and again, this work is now going to be done in general, and we can give an answer. However, I would like to say that many monuments are not monuments and have not been entered into registers at the time. They followed, for example, the decisions of the village councils at the locality, there, before the church, and so forth; in the district councils, and so forth. But they were not so artistic at their own time. And today, when they were demolished, it wasn't taken by the central authority, it didn't stand by the Ministry of Culture -- it was done in places. And if there's a violation of security custody legislation, you can go to the district attorney or district attorney again. But once again, we can talk to you about the monuments that are officially registered. Once again, we will answer about the total number and responsibility of these monuments.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u27	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. It's Lechchenko's procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u28	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, on the other hand, pointed out that the minister of culture was a reporter. Novotakko, the first deputy, has come and is giving us lectures, and he praises power and government. That's what I have to say next. What a Soviet government when the minister of culture was Bezlubenko, clubs were built and worked. And now that these new parents are working, the clubs only work nightly and other, for the rich, and the rural ones are destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, indeed, the government’s day report on this matter was appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers, Bogotic Yuri Petrovich. But since he is currently on his way to Slovenia, I received a letter from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine proposing that Novohatko Leonid Mihajlovich speak. So we had a dilemma: either to listen to this question or not to consider it at all. The word for co-reporting has the heads of the State Service for the Control of the Movement of Cultural Values through the State Border of Ukraine, Fedoruk Alexander Kassinovitch. Please. Is there a Fedoruk? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! First of all, our heartfelt thanks for setting this issue, for paying attention to the problem of export, import, and return of cultural values, for our attention to our heritage. There's no one in this room who doesn't care about this problem. I could thank each of the deputies, and that would take seven or five minutes. I could give a lot of examples about specific examples of what's going on in this case, because it's a search job, it's a job that's kind of a kind of thing that, in order to return, there has to be a dialogue. And not only is it the will to have these values returned, but it is the will to have these values returned. This issue was addressed at the outset by the National Commission for Cultural Values, which was formed in 1992. It was primarily about bringing the idea of cultural values back to society and bringing them to all of us. It was an internal question. It was about coordinating the efforts of all ministries, departments, departments, creative communities, organizations, and serious power structures. And here we received full support. It was about working on an international level of problems on this issue, working at the UN level, at the UNESCO level, to lead to the level of the global public that Ukraine has stated about this problem and is ready for dialogue. So Ukraine has initiated international meetings. And these international issues have been supported. I mean, I'm not going to talk much about specific examples, but what I'm saying is that at the very beginning, we were able to stop the export of the archives of the military particles of Ukraine, we were able to recover the legacy of Longevka, we were able to retrieve the archives of the UND, we were able to restore the artistic heritage of the Sinic of the disciple Boychuk. Tens and hundreds and thousands of such examples can be cited. For example, such an example is the detention of a collection, a fantastically rich collection, of the deceased in Kirovograd collector Ilyn. The collection had already dispersed, disappeared abroad, and had rare editions of John Fedorov. There were papyrus Egyptian, ancient paintings of European masters. And we returned all of this for Ukraine. We were able to stop another collector of David's collection, and this collection of 75 paintings was handed over to the Kharkiv Art Museum. I'm not going to talk about these details. And thank you for the adoption in 1999 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Act on Exports, Imports and Returns of Cultural Values. Since then, the government service has been operating to control the movement of cultural values across the state’s border. This is the third year we've been working. For the third year, within our competence, we have been involved in the implementation of State policy in this area of culture, in the protection of cultural values, in the movement of cultural values and in the prevention of the loss of cultural acquisition. You know there's a black business. There's a lot of imports, but there's a lot of smuggling. Here. A catalogue of lost cultural values. This icon of the 16th century, we've valued it 20,000, but it's such a conditional price. This icon of the 16th century has been in the West for 20 years, and we've discovered it, and it's going to be back around this month. There's a lot of work going on here. I'll tell you one thing, there's not a single entry point on the entire border of Ukraine with Russia where cultural values can be traced. [[It's about 3,000 miles away.]] At the time of the establishment of the territorial services of the public service, across borders, because there is environmental control, sanitation control. There's no control over cultural values, there's only eight checkpoints. Next. It's a very important question of sponsoring to support the import of cultural values. Recently, Marian Kotz wanted to bring us Chevchenka's robe. You can imagine, it's such a value! He was told the bribe was that he turned around and wanted to turn back. We asked him not to do this and intervened, and so Shevchenka’s work returned to Ukraine. I report that the idea of return, of enriching art monuments, is working. It has a lot of positive points. For example, this year we returned the legacy of Serge Lifar. The three nations fought for this inheritance. We got it for free. We were granted free of charge the inheritance of Viktor Nekrasov. Two states fought for this inheritance, one nation paid for it, and we got it for free. We've got the Korinsky phonoarchs. We got it. This is the enormous weight of the phonoarchs that was exported during the years of the war. We received a great inheritance from the family of Krichevsky. But there are sad moments, there are sad moments when it doesn't work. You want to, but it's not working. For example, during the war, Entesh’s archive was exported, and it is stored in Warsaw. We're negotiating. They're still unsuccessful. Alexa Grishchenko's legacy was exported, and we've been negotiating for 10 years that these 75 paintings should return to their homeland. It's not working. Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich, for what he supports, and Mikola Grigorovitch for supporting the idea of the return of Winniech's legacy. We work in this field. The idea of preserving an inheritance is to guarantee the progress of our civilization, the state. I think that all of us will be united in this. And we'll return the Michael frescoes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u31	Thank you, Alexander Cassianovich. Have a seat, please. The word for the report shall be given to the head of the committee responsible for the protection of the historical and cultural heritage of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality of Mikola Grigorovich Joulinski. Please, Mikola Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u32	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. We, Ukraine, are extremely rich in historical and cultural monuments. Let's say that there's an early paleolithic parking in a village of a city-type King of the Zacarpathian district of Zacarpathia, which is about a million years old, and a Kirilov parking in Kiev is almost 40,000 years old. And we can make this list to this day, but let us keep in mind that it is vital not only for Ukraine but also for world civilization. I think it's okay. We have adopted the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Act, we have legislation on cultures, we have appropriate regulations, we say, acts. We have announced that for us, for the Ukrainian State, priority is to create conditions for the preservation, reproduction and protection of the cultural and historical environment. And what we have today is true. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality held several field meetings in Zaporozhye in Hortica, this is Kiev-Pecher Lavry, this is a trip to the Lviv region in castles and museums in the Lviv region and so on. We can imagine today what is happening today with the protection of the historical and cultural heritage in Ukraine. I can tell you that the most serious problem is earth-wide manipulation, this is chaos and the abuse of local authority, this is a wide variety of subordination of areas and objects of the natural-command fund, it's illegal within the law, it's taking action under the cover of power, and it's impossible to bring responsibility. And there are so many examples of this. I'll give you an example. The State Historical and Cultural Reserve "Tractimirov", created in 1994, covers an area of 4,582 hectares, with unique monuments of archaeology, history and nature. I'm not going to count these monuments, but let's say: Trachtimer’s Skythyrian town, the remains of the temples of the chronic Zarub Monastery, the Cossack cemetery in the village of Trachtimir, the monuments of nature, and so forth. Suddenly, the Trachtimer regional landscape park appears and compares with the land of Cossacks, the tombs of World War II, which, by the way, were taken by the Bokrin platar. Instead, hunting castles, eigers, hunting towers, helicopters, and so on and so forth appear. The question is: Why does such activity in the territory of the State Reserve not cause any reaction to the relevant authorities? The other one. The Crimean reserves - Yaltinsky, the Mountain Forest Reserve - are the beech forest pralis and the Crimean pine, that's 30,000 hectares. In the center of the reserve, one of the greatest treasures is a powerful source of healing water. And all of a sudden, of course, the Cosmodamine Man Monastery opens well. But what's going on there is scary to even imagine. And the honourable colleagues, it would seem well, the President gives, orders the land to be handed over to the monastery. The President of Russia says he will restore one of the destroyed temples. And the conservation lands are transferred to the State Administration. It was three years ago that the Crimean Nature Reserve was translated. Why not the National Academy of Sciences, not the Ministry of Natural Resources Ecology, why not the State Committee on Forestry, not the State Department for Cultural Heritage, which we are talking about today, and so on. It's a problem today that I think that the National Cultural Heritage Service should be independent, that it should be a special body that should have its own functions and work independently at all levels of its competence. Third. Kyevo-Pecher laurel and the National Kyevo-Pecher Historical Cultural Reserve. Here it would seem to be a complete order, for this reserve has been added to the list of UNESCO’s global cultural heritage. There is a conflict, there is a conflict, there is no one who can solve it. Twelve objects have already been captured by the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate. Dear colleagues, how long is this going to take?Oh, my God! Why do we have more than half a million units of precious historical and artistic objects owned by the Ukrainian people and cannot order there? And I could also call the Mikolai church, which is where the construction is going, and I could also say what is going on in the archaeologically most precious part of the Kyiv Acropolis of the princely age and so on, and so on and so forth. All of this is, my fellow Members, evidence that the situation in Ukraine with the preservation of the historical and cultural heritage is catastrophic. This is the wine and our imperfect legislation, and the self-destruction of corrupt power, and the need to expand the natural-intelligence territories, and the subordination of reserves, and national natural parks, and museums. They should be subordinated to one ministry, and I repeat: this should, in my opinion and in the opinion of our Committee on Culture and Spirituality, be an independent public service today. One more question. For example, a national natural reserve was created and so on. So what's going on? It's been a while, and it turns out that these reserves are going somewhere. In Ukraine, we have a name, esteemed colleagues, a figure of 7,010 territories, and a total area of 2 million. 647 thousand. 815 hectares has a natural order network in Ukraine. The National Environmental Network Formation Program for Ukraine 2000-2015 envisions an increase in the land area of the natural-command fund to 10.4 percent. Well, this should lead the area of the national environmental network to a level sufficient to ensure Ukraine's environmental security. What's going on? We have literally or not every day cut off from these natural-preservation networks of the earth building there arbitrarily different objects, as above all private objects, and no one can do anything. There was a state-of-the-art Concha-Sasp preserve. Suddenly, there is no reason for it, and the unsanctioned development of this reserve is taking place under the construction of a variety of appointments. At an accelerated rate, the area was washed up to two feet [2 m] high by the sandy bottoms of the Canow Reservoir. The ecological balance in the Dnipro Valley is being destroyed. Including the spawning grounds of fish and lush vegetation. Our appeals to both our deputies and the writers do not provide a valid answer. Nobody knows who's doing this, all these receipts even at the level of the Attorney General's Office. And this is, by the way, the end-of-singing meadows -- nowhere in Ukraine is there a concentration of medical plants like in Concha-Sleep. These are Kiev's lungs. And this whole area has to be allocated to the State Reserve because it's an environmental system connected to Dniprom. You see, there's day and night, and on Constitution Day, and Independence Day are working, and they're twisting these sands. What should we, dear colleagues, talk about? We need to talk about that no one is essentially assigned, most of the assignments that are given, even including the President of Ukraine, are not being carried out. The Cabinet of Ministers is also failing to carry out its tasks. Because we don't have a system of responsibility. Responsibility at the right level for violating the preservation of the cultural and natural environment. I'll tell you what happened in 2000 when the President of Ukraine commissioned the Cabinet of Ministers to resolve the issue of creating a museum complex called "The Art Terminal" on the basis of the parts of the premises of the Arsenal plant and the art gallery in the building of the Institute's Street Exhibition Centre, not implemented; to announce the competitions for the development of better projects of the National Glory Pantheon, dedicated to honouring the memory of prominent fighters for freedom and independence of Ukraine -- not implemented, the memorial of the victims of hunger and political repression -- not implemented; the Presidential Library of the Name of Yaroslava Mudrogo -- not implemented; the international cultural and information centre of the Chevchenkovsky House -- not implemented. As was the decision of the Parliamentary hearings regarding the functioning of the Ukrainian language. So, colleagues, what are we going to talk about today? We must say today that the situation is dangerous and it requires the immediate intervention of the Supreme Council and the production of such a system of laws and legal obligations that would allow us to say today that we think the truth and care about the historical and cultural environment, that Ukraine really look like a civilized, fully culturally protected state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u33	Thank you, Milo Grigorovich. Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. Please state the name of the national deputies for the discussion. Yes, Vladimir Puzakov, the Communist faction. Prepare John the Rabbit. 20 minutes to discuss how we agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u34	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Today, there is no news that both education, medicine, and culture in Ukraine are almost unfunded and virtually destroyed. Compare only the budget articles allocated for culture and for the maintenance of the police state - and you'll understand. The conclusion is itself asked: A culture in the state is not needed by this authority. Let me give you an example. There's a museum reserve in Kirovgrad. This is one of the most important historical and cultural monuments in Ukraine. This garden was founded by a prominent Ukrainian playwright, actor, theatre and public actor John Tobilevich. [[Carpencom-Karim]] Since 1956, hope has been declared a state museum preserve. Its uniqueness is marked by many prominent Ukrainian cultural actors. During the days of Soviet Ukraine, there were 11-12 tours a day, and 19-22 thousand visitors a year. What about today? One or two tours a month, that's 3,000 men a year. The memorial garden of the tent of Hope employs 11 hectares of land. It consists of a decorative park, a fruit garden, a pond, a paternal house, a literary memorial museum. And all of these objects need immediate repair. There's a parent's house in an emergency. It was planned to make a model, but with no funds, the authorities said, nothing was ever done. The words of Karpenka-Karogo: "I intend to make the hut the best corner in all of Elizabeth City's entrance," are deeply injuring the soul. And it's embarrassing in front of people like that. And what poverty has turned into is the historical and scientific museums in Dobrovelyckevsk, Novoarchangelsk and other areas of the region. And take the loss of life in Poltavska of the valuable library of Gregory Skovorda, the library of Vernady?Oh, my God! During independence, much of the monuments of architecture and culture were destroyed. Only because these monuments bear the seal of a foreign culture of the Soviet era. Sadly, today’s authorities do not want to understand or understand the importance of the nation’s preservation of historical monuments, which results in countless losses and especially spiritual ones. Today’s authorities refer to the historical heritage, the monuments of history, as common objects of sales and speculation. This attitude of the authorities offers no chance of preserving the unique Ukrainian historical monuments for the future generation. And in this situation, you want to ask the leaders of the Kirovograd region and the Ukrainian Ministry of Culture: have they really hardened your souls? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u35	Ivan Hare, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready, Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u36	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! Knowing the real state of conservation of cultural heritage in Ukraine, the tongue does not return to appraise the government’s activity in this direction positively. There are many examples that show not only meager attention but also a lack of attention by the authorities to the problem of protecting Ukraine’s cultural heritage. In the absence of time, I will stop at just four examples. First. The question of the preservation of the ancient history of the Ukrainians, particularly the tropical times. Nina’s attention to her sources is increasing rapidly. Now we're focusing on the Tripoli civilization that was produced on our land by Ukrainian ancestors another 7,000 years ago. In addition to positive things, this has turned out to be a negative side for the memory of the Tripoli civilization. Black archaeologists have emerged in this direction, a single case of the export of valuable tropical monuments abroad. The museum’s museum foundation, Ukraine, was in danger. Walk through the regional science museums, and you will not see any exhibitions reflecting the Tripoli era. Even where they used to be, it's empty, because these exhibits are in storage. And from here, private collections or abroad. Therefore, I propose that the government approve within the framework of the government’s passport program a programme for the inventory and passporting of tropical monuments. And in this direction, the same program is needed for the monuments that are abroad. It is necessary to catalog the cultural heritage of Ukraine, which is abroad. To do that, you have to microfilm all these things. There's digital equipment, you can ask the Japanese if they don't have it. And this has to be a constant job. Our people have to drive around the world museums, film it all and create a data bank, so we can get it all back. I want to draw your attention to one more question, this is about privatization. What happens is that privatization cannot be maintained or avoided in the area of extraordinary conservation. For example, there is already such information that they want to privatize the territories of the former Inter-Igorian Rescue Monastery. It's the Retirement Base of the Desert Guide, a celebration of the Mizgir Cabinet of Ministers. There was an MP's request. Everything is silent as if water had been collected into their mouths and destroyed by all these values. As we view our cultural heritage, we do not need to go far. Stand by the Cabinet of Ministers, over there at the Institute and take a look. The Cabinet of Ministers is being renovated, and tens of millions of bracelets have been buried in this repair, and for decades it has been made an art museum and cannot be completed. So, dear colleagues, I propose that the Cabinet of Ministers work in this direction to evaluate negatively and prepare very specific measures. And then finally, break things down for the better. And my suggestions are to form as a parliamentary request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u37	Alexander Masenko, Communist faction. Get ready for Michael Chersun.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, the honorable are present. We've already become a tradition as soon as Government Day, and whoever's speaking from the government, so any question that's not brought to the Supreme Council's attention, it's got pink color, it's kind of normal, and there's work going on, and there's cultural and historical values, and there's that kind of thing going on. And when a representative of a profile committee speaks quite differently. And here I share the opinion of Mikola Grigorovich Joulinsky, the head of the Committee on Culture's subcommittee that we're not okay. But today, more than ever, I would like to ask Mikola Grigorovich. Mikola Grigorovitch, you were twice vice-premier and named for culture. How you cared about culture and what you did to keep these cultural values that we've lost so much. And you're just as long as you're Vice Prime Minister, I remember that all you wanted to do was reform the language and reform it so that maybe you could do it yourself, and I can't say it with you what you wanted to write or do that language. And the deputy minister spoke of what the Soviet times and the adjectives were and were dispersion and so on. Your Honor! I want to tell you one thing that doesn't have to be there, but there's still something you need to keep, and it's a great value. What do we have now? We said two international diplomats said, so one says, "Why do you have the Ministry of Maritime Transport when you don't have an exit to the sea?".. And he says, "What's weird about this? And you have a Ministry of Culture and you don't have a culture." So it turns out that there is a ministry and there is no culture. Let's think about what we're going to leave our offspring, what they're going to keep and what they're going to take care of. Right on the Institute Street in Kiev since 1994, I remember building, they say, a painting gallery. What is its condition, and where are our paintings? And the Christian has already been beaten three times and our cultural values will be driven underground. But I am most concerned about the state of culture in the countryside. Museums and museum rooms were created in each village. The enthusiasts gathered exhibits of historical value. Would you look at the state they're in right now? Those people don't get a penny, the rooms don't burn, the rooms fall apart -- this is our culture, this is our story, these are the adjectives. Then any milkmaid, the mechanic was able to go to any museum in Leningrad, Kiev, Moscow or anywhere. And now they'd be looking at this museum room in the village if we could save it. You think about it! Think about the state of the cultural houses in every village that it's already falling apart. What will happen next? I do not deny the need to build churches. Build up who you want. But realize that you have committed so many sins that even building churches will not take away your sins. You need to pray and pray for years to get rid of these sins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u39	Thank you. Mikola Shershun, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Prepare Volodymyr Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u40	Mikola Shershun, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. A well-known aphorism says that civilization is the power over the world, and culture is the love of the world. Therefore, when we yearn for the first, we should not forget the second. From that point of view, I would like to take a look at the state and prospects of protecting Ukrainian cultural heritage. First of all, they need to be passported. The Ministry of Culture needs to finally develop the only example of such an electronic passport, and they're doing it arbitrarily in places today. If it has to be processed, two thousand state funds per passport will be thrown into the wind. Next, it is clear that all monuments need constant care, protection, restoration, and often even capital investment. However, all of this today lies on the shoulders of the local budgets alone. It is therefore appropriate to address the issue before the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance and the Council's PSC's PSC on the increase in the standards set for the calculation of budgetary allocations for the protection of cultural heritage for the following year. Of course, there is someone to finance. But with the National Cultural Heritage Service at the level of Ukraine, there are no such structures. And the experience of foreign countries, which are the very cultural heritage known to the world, says that these should be separate structures. And not only do they ransom themselves but they also bring money to the state. This is the case in Poland, Russia. I'm not talking about Egypt anymore, where the services are actually paramilitary. So I propose that the Cabinet of Ministers urgently execute a separate mandate to create appropriate services on the spot and to stop the inter-ministerial friction by functionally distinguishing their functions with the functions of the holding. And that's the only way you can put black archaeology's insidiousness today. The press found figures that black diggers export millions of dollars of ancient values from the Crimea alone each year. You can imagine what the damage is within the state, and there are also uncontrolled foreign archaeologists. And then we see Ukrainian antiquities on Western auctions. That will be as long as there is a landmark war between the Ministry of Culture and the Institute of Archaeology at the expense of the search for work. Such a monopoly should be removed, and the development of archaeological science in places will be accelerated. This can be done today by making appropriate changes to the Codex Budget. Archaeological research should be allowed to be financed from local budgets. These funds are not significant to local budgets. And the last. As soon as possible, adopt a law on the listing of nonprivatizational monuments. We have a clear and clear statement: This can be placed in private hands with the condition of storage and restoration, and this is it! Because, as French politician Edward Rio said, culture is what's left when everything else is forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u41	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, the culture of power exists where there is power of culture. And I think that's the defining criterion for power at all. The attitude of power towards culture is a culture of power. In this regard, I support the proposal here that we have no reason to acknowledge the satisfactory work of the Cabinet of Ministers in preserving the natural and historical cultural heritage. There were many examples here. I'd like to add more to that. First of all, it's the Tripoli that John the Rabbit was talking about today. Trypilla is the depth that needs to be raised to the height. If there was anything similar in the territory of another nation, this nation would be proud of it and would do anything to make it known to the world and to seek out in the depths of Tripoli the genealogy of the Ukrainian people. We have practically extended this inheritance. Black archaeologists work. There are no exposures abroad. I think we should give the primary priority to Trippill himself. Tractors destroy virtually everything that's still there when they plow. We don't have time for all this, we don't have money. This is totally unwarranted. I think we need to develop a special program to preserve Trippill's cultural heritage and emphasize it. The second question. It's about the jewels of the Ukrainian state of the Cossack Age. This is what our ancestors died. These are symbols of the Ukrainian people. They're in Hermitage. We need to ask questions about the return of the jewels of the Ukrainian Cossack State to Ukraine. To be seen by Ukrainians to inspire them, they help them solve the complex problems that we now have. Third moment. It's a famine. It's like a lot of talk. What's the point? What, in fact!? In fact, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Kiev authorities, do not want to build a memorial to the victims of the famine in the center of Kiev. At all times, they seek some place for him instead of building it in the center of Kiev, as defined by the Supreme Council. The decision of the Supreme Council is not implemented. As far as the U.N. is concerned. Our authorities have worked so hard on the UN statement that the issue of the famine of the Ukrainian people has virtually disappeared. It's essentially about Kazakhstan, Russia, it's from Carpathian to Kuril's famine. There was no emphasis, there was a lot of emphasis on the fact that it was a famine, that it was a genocide of the Ukrainian people. Once again, the authorities were not working. And the church. You can't give back to the church the functions she had before. This is especially true of Lavre. You can't destroy Laura. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u43	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine. Last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u44	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. I want to break one of the difficult issues, such as the return to religious communities, to religious institutions that are now being held in museums and reserves. What is the complexity of this problem? First of all, the issue of the return of objects of worship to the church with rules of law in force, and in particular the Law on Museums and Museums. According to article 15 of the Act, museum meetings are part of the State Museum Fund of Ukraine and are state property, which means that the monuments involved cannot be alienated. In view of the fact that collections of Ukrainian leading museums make up 80 percent of the monuments of a cult character, mass transmission to religious communities can lead to the actual closure of these museums. It is important to remember that thanks to the efforts of museum workers for many generations, most of the cultural monuments in their collections were collected, restored, preserved, and brought into scientific circulation. Generally, objects of a cultistic nature: icons, old copies, metal products, including precious goods, that are stored in museums, have enormous historical and artistic value. Museum workers have preserved them from destruction and destruction, preserved this unique layer of Ukrainian world culture. Many examples, including the preservation of the Byzantine art of the eleventh century, which is now being preserved at the National Museum of Art in Ukraine. Or I would like to mention that museum experts, representatives of creative intelligence and scientists, in fact, have saved the miraculous icon "The Godmather of Holmes," saved in the territory of the former Postopolita Word, which is now being transferred to the Vollin Icon Museum. For generations to come, a unique monument to the sacral art of the 12th century has been preserved, and consider whether it is the only icon of the pre - U.S. Dotatarian period, which has been introduced into scientific circulation and widespread use in educational and educational processes. There are many other examples. As a result of the annual expeditions to the Churches of Volin, some 200 pieces of iconography and about a hundred manuscripts were added to the museum’s foundation. However, there is a major problem. After transferring museum monuments to religious institutions, religious communities should take full responsibility for their preservation. However, compliance with security, storage, and restoration requirements is not systematic and far from everywhere. In many cases, there is a lack of proper protective, fire-supplying, or preservation conditions in the churches. There are facts about the kidnapping of such monuments. As a result of an unqualified restoration made by new owners of monuments that have historical and artistic value, they are gradually being destroyed. Therefore, understanding all the complexity and understanding that we should follow the President’s famous decree, we need to consider that a large number of monuments are of exceptional importance and are the national, cultural acquisitions of Ukraine. Therefore, the faction of the People's Democratic Party, in discussing this issue, considers it necessary, firstly, to bring this issue to the standards of effective legislation, secondly, to create a commission to control the preservation of accounting and the use of monuments stored in religious buildings and communities, with the participation of both the authorities and the representatives of religions. And finally, to strengthen control and to make real calculations on the preservation of the memories that have already been passed on to religious communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, we are concluding our consideration of this matter. From the procedure, please, Migovich, then Šibko. And we're done. Just please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u46	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Respectful colleagues, in connection with such an overly tight schedule, consider such a vital issue. I make ten specific proposals to the government to preserve the unique cultural monuments of Zakarpat, because they are also being destroyed, destroyed. Please take them into account when developing additional measures to preserve the identity of our country, which is to become Ukraine's visiting card in Europe, as if we are looking forward to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u47	Vitaly Shibko, please proceed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u48	Vitaly Shibko, Ukrainian Socialist Party Vladimir Mikhailovich, I completely share the pain here today about how our cultural monuments are treated, but I do not understand why so much has been said today about rural clubs that are broken and so forth. This is not a monument to culture. That's the first one. And the second. As I listened to both reports, I did not understand, but how much was exported, whether we have the records of the exported values that are now abroad. What form of property are they in, whether state or private? And as we do, trying to get all of this back home, we rely on some kind of international law. Because I feel like, if we're going to ask the question of how our officials were treated on the way back, it's the same as if the Egyptian authorities were treating the Louvre to bring back to Egypt what's in the Louvre reserves today and so on. I mean, I didn't feel it today, I just felt some kind of anxiety, a cry, but some concrete plan, as all of this is going to come back, I didn't feel it. So this has to be reflected in at least our decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Question completed. All right, good fellows. We're going to have another discussion. We have two more questions. Please. There's insistence on the other side, calm down. I just want to remind the committee. I would like to remind the committees of our and the honourable representatives of the government, which we obviously need to prepare more responsiblely for holding parliamentary meetings. The days of the government. The point is that we have the impression that we've come out, we've just talked about phrases that don't mean anything. To talk about the nature of the problem, about what hurts, and what's important is what we have to do. I would also like to remind you that we have taken decisions on Tuesday to amend the Rules and that we should vote on the decision after considering the matter if it is worked out. I'd like to draw the committee's attention to this, because we don't have practical suggestions for our decision. And according to the position on the days of the government of article 12, after discussing each issue, the Supreme Council of Ukraine may make a separate decision in order to monitor the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 13, of the Constitution of Ukraine. To submit a proposal to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or to the members of the Government or to address the President of Ukraine with appropriate conclusions and proposals on personal responsibility and individual members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'd like that. That is to say, and by the coming days, the government must be preparing draft documents that we had to adopt immediately after considering the issue. The issue of measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers to prevent mortality and disability of the population as a result of cardiovascular and vascular diseases is under review. It's suggested, your honor, it's a rule. May I have your attention, please? To report to the minister of health, up to 15 minutes. The answers to the questions are up to 10 minutes. Letters and 10 minutes of lips. So the total time is 20 minutes. The report of the head of the committee, Mikola Efraemovich Policchuk, is within 10 minutes. And we'll have a discussion in 15 minutes. This is a committee proposal. No warning? Thank you. Let's move on to the question. The report invites Ukrainian Health Minister Andry Volodymyrovich Podejev. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u50	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! The distinguished national deputies, members of the government, are present! Today's review of the steps taken by the Cabinet of Ministers on the prevention of death and disability as a result of cardiovascular and vascular diseases is the third time this year that you have made a direct appeal to the Government's Day to identify the state of affairs in one of the most important areas of health care and to identify the possibilities and ways of improving it. And that's logical, because cardiovascular diseases have not only been at the forefront for many years now in the structure of the spread of diseases, mortality and disability in the population of Ukraine, but the number of them, unfortunately, continues to increase. And that brings great economic losses to our nation. All of us cannot be bothered by the fact that the population is shrinking. And in recent years, it's dropped by 8.3 percent. I would like to invite you to look at the materials that are prepared, visual. In absolute numbers, it's a 4.3 million drop. I would like to take a look at the structure of overall mortality in 2002 and life expectancy. It is evident that 616 percent of the deaths are related to blood circulation, or almost 2.3 of the patients. Thus, in the sharp decline in population and life expectancy, mortality is the primary cause of cardiovascular and vascular diseases such as ischaemic heart disease, hypertensive disease, heart attacks and strokes. And even though these reasons have long dominated the structure of population mortality, I want to point out that back in the 1990s, Ukraine was one of the first, and more specifically, the last, in Europe. But unfortunately, the mortality from cardiovascular diseases in the overall mortality pattern has not only remained high, but also continues to increase the prevalence of blood circulation, which I would like to show you on today's information material. Unfortunately, compared to our average statistics in Europe and the world, I have to say that there are persistent, opposite trends in the spread of disease, mortality and the impact on life expectancy in Ukraine and many countries in Europe. As the prevalence of disease and death from cardiovascular diseases in the countries of the United Europe is declining, and life expectancy is rising in the background, things are happening in Ukraine the other way around. What causes more anxiety? If the disability of cerebral vesicular diseases has previously taken precedence over the primary disability of the adult population, mainly at the expense of pensioners, there has been a clear trend in the last five years to an increase in disability at working age. There is also a very negative trend in the growth of cerebrovascular disease in men. So compared to the mortality rate in Western Europe and in our country, the mortality rate between 35 and 54 is 10 and 12 times higher. Another unpleasant trend. There is a growing sexual imbalance in the mortality rate of the working - age population from the disease of the bloodstream system. To date, the mortality of men of working age is 4.5 times higher than that of women. Why is this happening? Why is there a difference between the countries of the United Europe and Ukraine? I want to bring to your attention the main reasons. It's worth mentioning that almost all of the points listed here are so-called risk factors for cardiovascular disease, which by the way are already established by scientists over 200. But the main ones are smoking, obesity, overweight, adenemia, high blood pressure, nervous stress, high blood cholesterol, untimely approach to doctors. And it's the effects on these primary risk factors in most of Europe that have managed to reduce disease and death from cardiovascular and cardiovascular diseases by 60 to 80 percent. You can't say that the Ukrainian Ministry of Health for all these years didn't understand what was going on with cardiovascular and vascular diseases in the country, and it was only about what was going on. For several years now, they've been approved by the President's decree, and they've been running several programs. I'll just remind you of the main ones. "Health of the Elderly", "Prevention and Treatment of Arterial Hypertension", "Health of the Nation", "Sugar Diabetes" and others. In order to strengthen the material and technical state of health facilities and to introduce modern technologies for diagnosis and treatment of cardiovascular and cardiovascular diseases, high-value equipment, cardiostimulators and other waste materials will be purchased. It would seem that, with a number of years mentioned, with very little funding, or without it, sufficient scientific support by the medical sciences and the Ministry of Health, a network of cardiology institutions and a sufficient number of beds, the same number of cardiologists as in the United States, this would have led to a rather rapid change in the spread of disease and death from cardiovascular and vascular diseases. But it hasn't happened yet. The question is, Why have there not been positive developments? What's the problem? Are we doing everything right in a situation that has arisen? And yet when there are positive developments to be expected, both in the number of patients with cardiovascular diseases and in the mortality rate of those patients. Is it enough to reduce the funding of existing programs and health care in general? Or should we introduce new programs, find additional sources of funding? Open up a few new interdistricts or district, well - equipped cardiological centers? Is it going to increase the number of cardiologists per hundred thousand people? I want to look to the international experience. All countries have managed to reduce disease and mortality from cardiovascular and cardiovascular diseases by one way or another, through the primary prevention of cardiovascular diseases. And that means that a huge routine work is needed to drastically reduce those primary risk factors that gradually, slowly, lead to the emergence, manifestation and death of cardiovascular and vascular diseases, which continue to be very important, costly and far-reaching. Therefore, the basics for reducing disease and mortality from cardiovascular and brain diseases are predicted to be primary preventive measures. As you can see, we all seem to know the correct truths, but they are the ones that will allow us to reduce disease and mortality in the population of all many countries of Europe and the world. Moreover, just recently, in 2002, the European countries adopted a plan of action for the heart of Europe, where a common task for all countries of Europe, including Ukraine, was formulated as follows. Reduce the mortality rate from cardiovascular diseases in people under 65 years of age by 40 percent by 2020. And the question is, how exactly are they going to do this, by what means? Just three points are proposed to achieve this important task. That's right. Reduced blood cholesterol levels in all residents to 5 millimol per liter. The other one. Maintain arterial pressure of less than 140 by 90 millimeters of mercury in all people under 65 years of age. And third. Reduce the number of smokers by one percent each year. It would seem simple. But there is great work to be done to improve the entire health care system. You see parallel steps taken to improve Ukraine’s health system. First. This is a sufficient budget funding no less. It's equivalent to $30 per person per year. It's different. Additional health funding in the same amount as budget funding. And the last. Restructuring of Ukraine’s entire health system A general transition to a family doctor or a general practitioner’s system of primary health care. The transfer of all hospitals to a calculated form of farming from all forms of property and many others. This is the strategic plan for the improvement of the health system that is under the direction of the Ministry of Health, the Committee of the Supreme Council for the Health of Motherhood and Childhood, and the representatives of the World Health Organization in Ukraine have been working for six months. And the introduction of this should fundamentally change the state of affairs not only of cardiovascular and vascular diseases, but also of tuberculosis, HIV-AIDS, lung disease, gastrointestinal tract, diabetes, and other diseases. In 2003, this plan will be finalized not only by the three parties mentioned: ILO workers, the Supreme Council Committee, representatives of WHO in Ukraine, but also with the next involvement of international experts to present this plan for approval by the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the government as soon as possible. All the priority and forward-looking tasks that need to be addressed immediately are presented, in our view, in the draft decision of the Supreme Council, which is given out. I'll let myself stay on them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u51	Please answer the written question. In the meantime, check in on your lips.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u52	Thank you. Many questions have been asked. Many questions were answered in the main report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u53	Light up, please. Okay. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u54	Questions from the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding pensioners, veterans and invalids of Cibenko. "What preventive measures are being taken by the government to prevent the death and disability of the population as a result of cardiovascular and vascular diseases? Is Ukraine's draft State Budget Act 2004 to increase expenditure on the financing of cardiovascular health centres for the purchase of electrocardiostimulators, artificial heart valves, etc.?".. Dear Peter Stepanovich, I have already touched upon the government’s efforts in the report. I want to prove to you that there are six cardiosurgery centers working today. And in March, a new children's cardiosurgery center opened up, a state center that now has the opportunity to do 98 operations for children who have the most vulnerable part of the population. As for the centralized purchase of cardiostimulators, it's part of the program. And this year, we've bought and installed 2,000 cardiostimulators if we need 2 and a half thousand.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u55	Please, Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u56	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[United]] Andrija Volodymyrovich, a decree issued in 1999 by the President of Ukraine on a programme to prevent the treatment of arterial hypertension in Ukraine. Since then, specific tasks have been developed to implement this program in the fields. But there's no change in the program. In order to detect arterial hypertension in a year, virtually all health - care workers were abandoned. Both in the city and in the village there were days of blood pressure measurement, and so on. We can talk about the benefits of broadcasting on television, radio, newspapers, and other media. You could say that in order to warn mortality from. A heart attack requires drugs to carry out thrombolysis and direct anticotics. granite. However, there are no such funds. I have a question for the next act. Do you think that the creation of cardiological centres in Ukraine will result in a reduction in disability rates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u57	Thank you, Igor Mikhailovich, for asking. In my opinion, all events with high-quality assistance clearly lead to a reduction in disability. But you rightly said that today only the performance indicator of the Ukrainian Children’s Cardiosurgery Centre provides opportunities and links to regions, and the processing of algorithms. And for today, I agree with your view that this will lead to a reduction in disability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u58	Please have written questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u59	Questions from the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization - Valentina Petrovna Seminyuk. Does the government provide for the organization and repair of modern high-tech diagnostic and cardiovascular and vascular diseases in privatized machinery companies in Ukraine? Dear Valentina Ivanovna, thank you for asking. Today, thousands of appointments of medical equipment are made in Ukraine, and some privatized state enterprises are involved. The Ministry of Health, together with the Ministry of Economics, are tender committees that are based on the criteria that apply to them. And for the equipment, the machinery is used for the purchase of the necessary equipment. I want to remind you that today, in order of powerful centers such as Lviv, Kyiv, Donetsk, which release, especially Harkown, digital, highly specialized equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u60	Please, Slata. None. It's weak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u61	Slauta Victor, Donetsk Region, Old Agesev constituency 63, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Dear Andrei Vladimirovich! Everyone knows that with you coming, the Ministry has become more effective. Moreover, thank you for providing specific assistance to the rural health care institutions. I am often approached by parents of children who have heart problems when they are young. What are the trends, and how many heart operations are performed in Ukraine by children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u62	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. I've already reported that there's a state center for children's cardiosurgery that's done 92 just in this center of surgery. I want to give an example of about 6,000 children born in Ukraine in need of operational intervention. But the possibilities for today’s academic institutions and the Ministry of Health are not such that we can cover up these requests. And not more than 1.5 thousand operations we do in a year. But I think next year we're going to take new indicators with the introduction of the state center. Although statistics today show that more than 35 percent of newborns do not live to the first year of life, this is a very big problem for us today for providing highly specialized medical care to children with congenital heart problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u63	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u64	Letter to the head of the Supreme Council faction, the Communist Party MP, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. "It is known that Ukraine has declared its main geopolitical task throughout the world -- to join the European Union, which has a rather high level of basic social norms and guarantees and especially in the health system. Yes, death rates from cardiovascular diseases in Ukraine are three times higher than those of EU countries. How many years does it take Ukraine to get out of these countries? What are the costs that must be allocated to the fight against cardiovascular diseases?" Thank you, Your Honor, Peter Mikolaiovich. I really want to bring up the facts that in 1990-1992 the figure in Ukraine was 1452 per 100,000 population, and today it is equal to 928 per 100,000 population. I've brought such data that the number of cardiologists in the United States is 5.8 per 100,000, and in Ukraine is 5 per 100,000, and we haven't considered doctors of functional diagnostics here, which also exist in almost all countries, but only today in CIS countries. So it's very appropriate to conclude that the allocation of funds for the cardiovascular disease programme has not the last place, but the primary prevention that is stressed by both the country of Europe and the countries of America -- both there and there is a program. In America, there's the Arterial Hypertension Fight Program, in Europe, the Heart of Europe, and in Ukraine, there's been an Arterial Hypertension Program that's already had positive results. I hope that now the Arterial Hypertension program has entered its second period and has the opportunity to produce very positive results. And as an example, I want to provide such information that even in this room there are MPs of today's 437 deputies of only 200 deputies, 237 deputies on medical bills, and they are interested in their health. And of the 200 deputies who have contacted a doctor today, 156 have a disease, 66 of which are hypertensive diseases, which are a risk factor and will not allow, according to what I've given you, to feel healthy at workable age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u65	Please, Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u66	Please give my word to my colleague at the Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, welcoming Parliamentary hearings and Government Day on this topic, I would like to ask you about the following. Has the introduction of specialised cardio-social expert commissions in Ukraine improved the provision of expert assistance to this category of people with disabilities? And did this give a positive indication of primary disability in the disease of blood circulation systems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u68	Thank you for asking. In fact, we were able to draw closer to expertise and expertise. There are 32 centers in place today. This makes it very easy for the patients today to use the mechanism of expertise itself. But I want to point out to you that I was at an expert institute, and the equipment with the re-testing, the over-expertization, it's almost exactly the new one, in 19898. If the U.S.S.S. equipment is still out there today. The graphs, today they only have two-dimensional analytical help, so it's not a team of centers that have and should have an expert evaluation. The disability of this disease is declining, and this year has a downward trend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u69	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u70	Question by the representative of the faction of the Democratic People's Party of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich. Questions. In 2001, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approved an intersectoral comprehensive programme called "National Health", which meets WHO requirements, particularly the European Health Programme for all in the twenty-first century. After a change of government, this program is undeservedly forgotten, indicating a lack of strategic planning in the area of health care. Whether an active government prepares another long - term program or restricts itself to a short - term plan of action on issues under consideration. Government health - care programs have recorded the need for the adoption of a law on compulsory social health insurance. This bill was not voted in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What is the position of the government regarding further consideration of this issue? Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich, there is nothing I can tell you about the frequent change of government. So I want to say that the Ministry of Health will not throw away any national programs. And as far as there is a tendency in the medical field to preserve the pyramidal structure of all levels of health workers, the national health program is being carried out at district, district, and republican levels. On the twentieth number, I know so much that we're going to take the midterms. Although every program that exists today and the topic that has an opportunity to discuss today, I also think that I am part of a two-year program. With regard to general health insurance. It's also hard for me to draw conclusions about the number of "yes" voters. But I know that we, along with the Supreme Council Committee and the World Health Organization, have the opportunity to bring in several directions in that multi-channel funding with the application of a general health insurance policy. The new law or the draft law on financing the sector, I think it will answer all the questions you have. I invite you to discuss it with the Committee and the Ministry of Health, because there are many vectors and interesting directions in this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, there is an offer to work without interruption. Is there no objection? Please, Vitaly Shibko. Please answer the questions in a more concise way.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u72	Andrew Volodymyrovich! Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. You all well remember, fellow believers, the historic decision of the Constitutional Court, which is very rare, as he confirmed some articles of the Constitution about our right to use free treatment. And with that, I'd like to ask you two questions. So the first question is, please tell me, is there a concept in your ministry right now that we should focus on advanced technology and spend money on it or give everyone a drop? And are you sending some money to, well, in terms of this question that we're looking at, to build a cardiology center? That's the first question. And the second question. Tell me, how much money did you put in front of the Cabinet of Ministers for the year 2004, and how much did you give them according to what we voted in the Council on the first reading of our budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u73	Thank you for asking. First of all, my entire report, with the experience of foreign countries in Europe and America, had a vector, a vector that didn't rule out highly specialized help and preventive assistance. It's easier to warn the disease -- it's definitely the numbers that I've given in the report today. As far as highly specialized medical care is concerned, we have several directions in the country. The first is the scientific and research institutes of the Ministry of Health, the cardiological centres subordinated to the Ministry of Health, and the institutes of the Academy of Medical Sciences. This year, the budget, it didn't have this in place, to provide highly specialized medical care to the Academy of Medical Sciences, has allocated $35 million. According to the Academy of Medical Sciences, these costs are lower than their calculations, as the request was 48 million dollars. With regard to the budget of the Ministry of Health, it has been increased in absolute figures. That figure we discussed on the budget committee is a billion three hundred thirty-three million. Then a minimum requirement of 466 million was planned for the west. And as far as I'm aware, we're going to have an extra-billion-three thirty-three, plus one hundred and twelve million dollars. Love for today, if the state of the equipment, the state of the clinic is being analyzed today, that amount will not be enough. We'll go the rational way of cutting down and putting together high value centers. Because the new technologies that our doctors have in their hands are not supported by the equipment that exists today. For example. According to the Children’s Cardiosurgery Center, several questions were asked, and the tenders, which were the equipment of not old age, not 1998-2000, but the equipment before 2004. Because, unfortunately, we don't have new technologies in Ukraine that are being introduced from Western firms and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u74	Vladimir Sergiyovich Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u75	Thank you. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Petrenko, Sumstina. Dear Andrey Vladimirović, a strong request: we are being approached as people's deputies, you know, by very many of our electorates in the provision of medical care. Charities have to be paid for today. For analysis, X-rays, surgery. I understand that qualified assistance is not in your hands right now, not in Minhvod's hands. How do you think Minhvod feels about making arrangements on this issue and whether the clinical institutes of Minhvod should be returned? Because specialized assistance in Ukraine has been decapitated. For example. Only in the Amosova Institute is it now 36,000 for heart surgery. And there's a possibility of about 6,000. And what exit? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u76	Thank you, Volodymyr Sergiyovich. It's not that simple. Because the Budget Act doesn't allow any inter-budget relations. But I think we need to bring a meeting with the Supreme Council Committee on Protection, with the Presidency of the Academy of Medical Sciences, because this really, really exists, it's a question this year. In those numbers that I've brought in the allocation of money for highly specialized aid will somehow be removed from the place, but it's not fundamental. And I invite you, and I think that Mikola Eframovich Polishchuk will agree that before the adoption of the law on the financing of the sector, we also need to discuss these issues together. Yes, Mikola Efremovich? Because the question is not simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u77	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u78	The institutes. Well, your previous decision is the autonomous funding of institutions. I don't know how the faction voted, but that decision was made about six months ago. Thank you. It's a written question. Authorized representative of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine of the Supreme Council of Boki. "What is the government doing to release in Ukraine effective means of preventing myocardial infarction and strokes? Is there any development of drugs by Ukrainian scientists, and how are they introduced into production?".. Again, thank John Sidorovich for the question. I want to say that in Ukraine today, unfortunately, there is no Ukrainian approach, no Ukrainian form for treatment and prevention of one or the other. forms. If this is about lysis therapy, I want to say that these are high-value drugs, but this is therapy. In Ukraine, drugs are not made, they are registered. Thank you. Several written questions are from the head of the Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u79	Please, one minute. Mikola Onichtuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u80	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, Your Honor Andriy Volodymyrovich. This is not the first time that the Supreme Council has returned to discussing health issues in Ukraine. Just to remind you that almost a year ago, the Supreme Council adopted a very important document: the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to create and organize the activities of the children's cardiocenter. [[That's what you're talking about today.]] But I would like to pay attention to the following. The majority of the provisions of this decree have been enforced by the government. And we take that as a good thing. At the same time, there are two remaining positions that are still underworked: the transfer of facilities to the centre and the issue of depositing and execution of a credit agreement to obtain equipment for this centre. In view of your personal contribution to improving the health situation in Ukraine, especially with regard to rural medicine and improving the work of specialised medical institutions, I wanted you to give a more complete account of the issue of the child’s cardiovascular center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u81	Thank you, Your Honor, Mikola Vasilovich. As I have already reported, as of March the Ministry of Health ordered the center to work. Indeed, it is a matter of accommodations. And the two choices that we have today, and our view today is that the figure that we asked for for for construction, the reconstruction of the facility under the center, is 30 million grand. - there's no budgeting. But $30 million. is aimed at acquiring equipment. To this end, the center of children’s cardiosurgery. If this is about the deal you needed today with Simmons, at least the kind of money that the state can allocate to buy equipment, I don't think it was worth signing a credit agreement. If money is available and can be bought, it will be on a tender basis, according to experts. And for 10 years we will have no obligation to equipment manufacturers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u82	Last question, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u83	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Andrew Volodymyrovich, that's the situation. Today, the golden hands of our doctors are bringing many people back from that world, but I haven't heard from the report, and now there's little talk in the media about what was before, during the Soviet Union, there was a beautiful system of sanitation. Because you were about to lose your temper, as a doctor, you are well aware of the need for rehabilitation. What is the fate of those who have suffered heart attacks, strokes, or some acute cardiovascular disease? Are there any social aid mechanisms for these people? What is the state doing in this direction? And what help do you need from the Supreme Council of Ukraine to develop a network of rehabilitation institutions? Because that is the outcome of a full recovery, or again, do not give God a disability.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u84	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich, for asking, because it's very important. The rehabilitation phase is now being preserved in our country. It's only a rich country that can afford this, because when I study an examination of the treatment of patients with myocardial infarction outside the country, I want to say that there is no trend that exists in Ukraine today. Up to 12,000 patients after heart attacks and strokes per year are getting rehabilitated. This system exists not only in the institutions of the Ministry of Health but also in the establishments of trade unions that still exist. The suggestions and the problems that there are, and I think after the committee discussion we'll bring up this issue, there's that trade union sanatoriums don't have to take on treatment to rehabilitate people who don't work. It's a matter of concern to me. I think we'll figure it out later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u85	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. The head of the Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood, Polishchuk Mikola Efremovich, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u86	The great suffering people of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies, Hennaday Andriyovich, are present! In the last 10 years, the absence of soldiers in Ukraine has reduced by almost 4.3 million, an average of 400 to 500 thousand a year, to 47.5 million. Thus, Ukraine’s population decreases by almost 1 percent annually. Between 1990 and 2001, birth rates dropped by 39.4 and mortality rose by 25.4 percent. This led to population ageing and a catastrophic decline in natural population growth from plus 0.6 percent in 1990 to minus 7 percent in 2001. Since the mid-50s last century, the leading cause of death has been the disease of the bloodstream. From 1992 to 2001, the incidence of cardiovascular mortality increased from 51.6 percent to 64.8 percent and from vascular to 29.5 percent. 1 out of every 4 people who died from bloodstream diseases in 2001 had vascular pathology. In Ukraine, 50,000 people and more than 140,000 people suffer a heart attack each year. Ischaemic heart disease and strokes are a major cause of death in Ukraine. Mortality of stroke among individuals. 45-75 years is 606 per 100,000 population in Ukraine, 12 times higher than in Switzerland and 2 times higher than in Russia. Among other things, it should be noted that the impact of a stroke does not distinguish faces and, for example, all the active persons of the historic Yaltic Conference have suffered or died from a stroke. If today’s situation does not change, 1 out of 5 will end up with a dependent disability and 1 out of 5 will die. The stroke is the main cause of the disability of the population. Only 20 percent of those who survive the disease return to active life. The health of the country’s population reflects the state’s real economic situation and its attitude toward social welfare. In Ukraine, only 3.1 percent of GDP is allocated to health care, while world experience shows that an effective health system can only be spent when at least 5 percent of GDP is spent on health care. In Ukraine, as much as $31 a year is spent on health care, 26 of which go to maintenance and pay, and only 5 for treatment. It has been proven that less than 30 dollars for the treatment of a person is already a dead sector, and we have the Ministry of Health trying and surviving. And at the same time, the last year is under way in the restructuring of the sector. In such a demographic crisis, one cannot expect a reduction in the number of diseases in one generation’s bloodstream. Perhaps the Cabinet of Ministers should consider what should be a priority in the state, including in the budget: power structures, government administration, or health care. In Ukraine, there are persistent violations of a number of articles of the Constitution: articles 48 on adequate living standards, 50 on environmental safety and health, and 49 on health protection. The decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not implemented. But the issue of constitutional reform and the declaration of social concern for the authorities is always a matter of concern. Where, then, is this concern when the new budget puts in place a reduction in health care costs? Today, health has been proven to be 50 percent life - style, 20 percent genetic and biological, 20 percent environmental, and only 10 percent health care. And we put everything on health care, and why are medical doctors ill - treated? How can such funding be treated? The main risk factors for cardiovascular and vascular diseases are: unhealthy lifestyles, tobacco, alcohol abuse, malnourished diets, insufficient physical activity, environmental factors, stress, harmful environment on production and in life, it's Donbas, Zaporozhye, Curve Rig, Dnipropetrovsk, as well as Kiev, as well as increased arterial pressure, excess weight, little movement of life. We have a treatment strategy for cardiovascular and vascular diseases that still predominates preventiveally. Honorable People's Deputies, men of honor! Do you control your blood pressure, or do you know your cholesterol, or have you quit smoking? In order to reduce mortality from cardiovascular diseases, it is necessary to maintain the arterial pressure of people about 65 years of age not more than 140 by 90 millimeters of mercury, blood cholesterol not more than 5 millimol, cinnamon reduction by 1 percent per year, only 1 percent per year. Obesity over the age of 40 or 50 increases mortality by 50 percent. Lowering the blood pressure by 8 millimeters of mercury reduces the number of strokes by 48 percent, and heart attacks by 19 percent. So let's give the poor a targeted lowering arterial pressure. In 1992, France spent $150,000 on strokes of $840 million, and on preventive treatment of all patients with arterial hypertension of $25,000. And there was a 40 percent reduction in the risk of stroke. Thus, preventive measures are much cheaper and more effective. I think this will be facilitated by the Law on the Limitation of Tobacco in Ukraine, and by parliamentary hearings on December 1st on alcoholism, drug addiction, and AIDS. These factors are designed to eliminate cardiovascular and vascular disease prevention measures in the United States, allowing the death rate to be reduced by 25 percent in 14 years. And in some forms, 50 percent. Not to talk about democracy, but to create conditions for a proper life is the first priority of power. The primary prevention of blood circulation diseases should become a national ideology for strengthening public health. The state must create conditions for healthy lifestyles, for improved hygiene, for increased control of harmful habits. We now have up to 5 percent of the time available for preventive work, while in the United States 30 to 40 percent of the time spent by family doctors. In 2000, the government of Yushchenka issued a decree to expedite the establishment of a general practice doctor and a family doctor. And it's only now that the ministry has started to do it effectively. So in the prevention of cardiovascular disease, they play a role: rational diet, low-calorie diet, weight gain, arterial hypertension treatment, and ischaemic heart disease. In Ukraine, six thousand heart operations are performed annually, while the need is 35,000. But the possibilities are governed not only by whether institutions and institutions can give them, but by whether we can finance them. That's 29 grand. patients die without waiting for surgery. The drugs do not help the sick. The number of operations to warn and treat strokes is about two thousand a year, with the need for advice of 20,000. With proper funding, the number of operations can double tomorrow! Health - care facilities are ready for this. But they should be subordinated to the Ministry of Health rather than to individual departments. Not to build new clinics, but to equip existing clinics and create conditions for their proper work, and tomorrow we will have a result. So it is only by uniting the efforts of the government, the Supreme Council, the medics and every citizen that can help to overcome cardiovascular and vascular diseases in Ukraine. We would not want our next session to shake the air. If the authorities do not return to the social needs of the people and stop the increase in mortality, as Viktor Andrievich Yushchenko stopped the economic downturn in the country at the time, not the place for this power! The backseat in the race has to free the ski! I would like to ask you all to support that draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the committee prepared on this issue. And we're going to be grateful to everyone who comments on the project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u87	Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. 15 minutes — time for discussion. The word is given to Alexander Masenko, next to Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u88	Honourable MPs, distinguished radio listeners, Ukrainian citizens! And you've all heard reports, and you've probably all come to realize that the disease situation in the cardiovascular disease in Ukraine is just terrible, and as such, there's no concrete plan to get out of this situation. In general, the question is: Why do we have medical services in the state? When both the Constitution and the Constitutional Court have decided, and everyone says that these services should be free in Ukraine. And we have our salaries. Well, tell me if there's even such a small amount of heart disease in there or in the vascular system and a person goes to the hospital. And she was told that you needed 10,000 or 5,000 dollars to heal. A healthy heart can't stand it, but if it's already sick, that's it. Be assured that there is no man. So we should, we should think about it, dear friends. As a resident of the Poltava region, I am extremely concerned about the situation in this region of cardiovascular disease. These are the data provided by the Ministry of Health. I didn't know it existed. But the Poltava region is found on virtually all the indicators of the most inconvenient. I can't look at this calmly, so consider this my question of parliament and I'm asking the Cabinet of Ministers to provide comprehensive information on what steps are being taken to improve the situation in the Poltava region. Everyone says it's an ecologically clean region. And when it comes to oncosa, there's the worst, and there's the cardiovascular, too. What is the reason? Let's get this straight! And when it comes to funding, 92 percent of the money is spent just to pay the wages of health workers, which means that they need to be reduced. This is not to mention that medical drugs, or other equipment, or other equipment. I still have such concerns that in due time, medical facilities in various regions were provided with government funds. And now if you have better medical equipment in a region and you've got a person from another region, you have to pay, if you don't pay from this area, and if you pay from another region or another region, you pay. Why is this perceived imbalance? I think it needs to be eliminated, and it shouldn't be. We're residents of all the same country, we're all Ukrainians, and we can't do that for free, and we can't do that for each other. I'm not a medical specialist. [[One more minute.]] But I also think that living conditions are conducive to our having so much cardiovascular disease. There's no prevention, people don't go to sanatorium. And there are no other issues. As long as they go to the offices, to the courts, to the officials about solving the issue, so I say that a healthy heart will definitely get sick. Finally, he wanted to say that maybe Yushchenka did something right, but he also prepared medicine with pay. And you don't have to do the election campaign, but let's do the cardiovascular issues that Yushchenko will never solve. And let's talk about it directly. And don't raise such an important question to the elective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u89	Please, Vladimir Puzakov. Next Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u90	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. According to statistics, Ukraine's permanent population decreased by 435,000 per year. In the Kirovograd region, the population and animals are reduced by 19 to 20,000. The mortality rate for 2002 was 18 per thousand. In the structure of the causes of death, the first priority is the diseases of the blood circulation system, with 53.7 per cent in the area, and 61.6 per cent in Ukraine. About 11,000 people die of cardiovascular diseases each year in the area. The main cause of adult disability is cardiovascular disease and accounts for about 30 per cent. The main reasons for this situation. First. High-quality drugs, drugs for most people, are not available. Only one vial of thrombotics for a sufferer with a severe myocardial infarction is worth one and a half thousand bracelets. Cardiosurgery for the sick is not available, as heart surgery and vessels cost between 10,000 and 13,000 bracelets! In addition, such operations are mainly carried out in only four or five cities in Ukraine. Very weak in the logistics of treatment and prevention institutions. Electrocardiological research is not carried out in most district hospitals and medical clinics due to the lack of electrocardiographs. In the central district hospitals, laboratories were not provided with chemicals and biochemical analyzers for research. Most district hospitals do not have echocardiography due to the lack of ultrasound scanners. Ukraine has adopted a National Programme for the Prevention and Treatment of Arterial Hypertension, but it is declarative. Not funded at the State level, but set aside for local budgets that are unable to finance it. In our area, low numbers of doctors, cardiologists. The dispensation of cardiovascular patients is not sufficiently effective, both quantitatively and qualitatively. The Ministry of Health has not developed legal instruments on dispensation. The absence or lack of motivation is a barrier to the implementation of the National Programme for the Prevention and Treatment of Arterial Hypertension at the level of doctors. The doctor's salary is twice that of industry. From all the above, the question is, "Is it only cardiovascular disease that leads to Ukraine?" Of course not. People die in the streets, in transportation, in the markets. Did the authorities think why this was happening, what was the reason? Perhaps the main cause of all the hardships of a destitute person is today's anti-national regime, whose purpose is to cut off more than a small piece for itself and to enrich beyond measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u91	Dear colleagues! Now Karmazin's on the list, but he's not here. Let us consult with you. He asks the word Shurm to be moved there instead of Karmazin or Chernewsky. If there's no objection, from the committee, and this is the doctor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u92	Storm, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Ukraine, like all developed nations, is eager to pay considerable attention to the prevention of cardiovascular diseases, to the allocation of significant costs for their treatment. This would be natural, since blood circulation is the primary cause of death, preceding oncological and infectious diseases. The volume of cardiovascular disease in the structure of mortality is 61.3 percent. High mortality from cardiovascular pathology causes changes and demographics, increasing the negative natural growth. Over a number of years, the mortality of people of working age has been reduced by acute myocardial infarction, cerebrovascular and ischaemic disease. Statistics show this. All the measures taken by the Ukrainian medical network would have been effective if new medical technologies and programs had been put into practice. This is possible only if they are financed. If cardiologists were able to open cardiac surgery, then immediate surgery would not be a problem. I mean. plastic and aorto-convulsive bypassing. Functioning in the pre-infarct X-rays would allow you to conduct coronarography, but it takes angiographers and, accordingly, costs. In every region of Ukraine, there are developed and approved programs to provide medical supplies for patients with acute myocardial infarction in the first period of material development, but funding is not foreseen. An example is the Lviv Regional Cardiospanser in Lviv, where the cardiosurgery corps has been under construction for 13 years. By the end of 2003, it was planned to allocate 1 million dollars, but only 300 dollars were allocated to the area. Why? Poor politicians who don't care about the medical sector say it's buried money. It's not up to the Kiev officials. And to complete the construction of the cardiocenter, you need 5 million dollars, and to provide the equipment, you need more than 20 dollars. No funds are planned for cardiovascular disease control. Today, worldwide, there is an early diagnosis of acute coronary syndrome and the risk of sudden death. Such tests take 15 minutes. It takes 50,000 bracelets to buy markers for the Lviv region alone, but. and appropriate equipment. However, there are no funds. The prevention of the disability and mortality of the population of Ukraine from the disease of the bloodstream system should become a state matter. At present, targeted village assistance is needed. Medical clinics, district hospitals, and medical clinics provide medicines to the domestic manufacturer for the treatment of arterial hypertension atenol and others. I also want to focus on the addition of the rapid-aid cardiology brigades with thrombolytics and defibrilators and cardiographers. Medicine is a matter of road, 21 days of treatment without thrombolytics are spent in the state of over 800 bracelets. And in civilized countries, one day of acquittal treatment is $800. All programs to preserve the health of the population to prevent disease, to detect cardiovascular disease, supported by funds, will lead to a reduction in disability and are not available. And in this situation, we need to mention irresponsible voting in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u94	for the law on public health care. And the last. The whole world is good at funding the work of scientific institutions, scientific research. And we have to take care of science. In order to carry out scientific research, putting their results into practice, it is necessary to allocate funds. And the rest. Dear colleagues, we all have a heart. And as long as the Zosula has been for us, we must take care of this heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u95	Mikola Sherschun, please. Don't you insist, Mikola Haritonovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u96	Mikola Shershun, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Worldwide, health is thought to be a major asset in life. However, when you study the cardiovascular and vascular diseases, you're always convinced that Ukrainians don't have the benefit of that. The mortality rate is now nearly 16 percent. And nearly two thirds of people die as a result of these diseases. They suffer as much as 1 out of every 5 hardworking Ukrainians are disabled. Doctors say that the medical factor in this case is a maximum of 10 percent, and the main propagandizer of healthy lifestyles, primary prevention, and early diagnosis. Of course, this requires considerable material resources, but nothing can compare with the cost of one human life. So I think at the national, regional level, it's very important to develop, implement, highlight, implement, not just accept the "Healthy Way of Life" program. Because there is a world experience that shows that the costs invested in prevention are occupied from 1 to 10. In view of the poor equipment of modern diagnostic equipment, the Ministry also needs to establish a register of appropriate equipment and develop a phased but fast diagnostic system, combining government and local sources of funding. Today, there are modern methods of diagnosis and treatment in the world and in Ukraine. An example of this is the Ravens County Clinical Hospital, where the modern separation of cardiovascular surgery is operated by an MRI, an angeographer, and other modern equipment. There are symptoms of early stage illness and treatment. The equipment is purchased at the expense of the district budget, but there is no clear program of technical medical resupply at the level of the State. And this is our common misfortune. After all, these medical expenses are usually paid for. We need to look at them in the direction of increase, otherwise medicine will continue to chew. Last one. This is a very serious problem for the availability of medical supplies for the sick. In dealing with her serious expectations, she was relied upon by the President’s decree of the U.S. State Department of Medical Medicine and Medical Devices. One of the main tasks of this service was to introduce the registration of prices for medical devices as the main mechanism for the economic availability of medicines. Nothing in this direction is done, prices are rising. Few in the pharmacies next door are 10-20 percent different. And for the average patient, it is incomprehensible and just complaints. Honorable colleagues, when deciding on the matter, should remember that we are not merely supporting the branch, but we are fighting for the extension of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u97	Thank you. Sergei Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, today is a really interesting conversation about the health of the nation. Each speaker gives such convincing arguments that we sometimes want to cry. Thus, the NDP faction offers to hold back the tears so that all national MPs from opposition, most of them, may be agreeing today on a moratorium on blocking Parliament’s work, even in part when it comes to health care. Or we're talking curly here, and when it comes to funding, about adoption of new legislation, we're blocking this rostrum. And what will we then tell our electorate, our family, how will we eventually care for our health? The next question we wanted to raise is the implementation of an action programme by an active government. The main point in the health sector was the adoption of the Law on Generally Compulsory Social Health Insurance. He was not supported by part of the opposition and part of the majority. This actually means that most of this part doesn't support government action. I don't know. As the government is going to report in a year, but I think it would be advisable to see in Parliament the very government draft of an updated, revised law on compulsory state health insurance. It's not fashion, it's a time challenge, because there's another way to control the activities of medical professionals, another way to establish a shared responsibility for the health of fellow citizens so far. And we need to adopt this legislative act as soon as possible for the citizens of Ukraine and for the hundreds of thousands of our citizens who are now outside our country, either in Russia or in Poland. They are totally defenseless because there is already a health insurance program in those countries, and ours must pay their own bills if anything happens to them. And the Embassy of Ukraine, for example, in the Republic of Poland, can convincingly prove how much our country has already owed for the treatment of citizens in that state. In our view, there should also be a change in health funding. I can't quite understand if there's a government order, budget, utility. Only municipal public health facilities are excluded from the State Budget. If new forms, if private structures are more efficient, are better off doing their job, why are they not entitled to part of public or municipal funding? After all, the Constitution ensures the equality of operators regardless of the form of ownership. And the last. A bill on patients' rights has been submitted to the Ukrainian Parliament by the NDP faction. Let us agree that our fellow citizens — 80 percent of patients in health care — should have the right to be legally and financially protected in the event of inadequacies of medical care, inadequacy of medical care. Our people should have the right to information in full, timely, openly, free access to medical care, quality and free health care, and financial compensation if health care institutions, regardless of their property, do their job and do our citizens harm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u99	Thank you. Sit down, please. Dear colleagues, questions, time is up, but let's do it this way. From place to place who wants to speak. Basil Bartkov, please. Any person who wishes per minute will be able to express himself. Okay, on the list, yeah. Vasil Bartkov's microphone. Yes, while he's getting ready now instead of Alexander Frost Valentin Semenyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u100	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. I have specific suggestions. Dear colleagues, in our time, we had a very big problem with the children’s cardiology center. When Alexander Alexander Moroz, Head of the Supreme Council, was in the budget, we offered to make a separate line for the children’s cardiology center. We don't have many centers that treat cardiovascular disease today. So let's take a separate line of our Institute of Medical Sciences, which directly performs both medical and diagnostic work, and we're going to write directly into a separate line. That's the first one. The other one. I want to go to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Minister in particular, to clear the city of Odessa with a quick hospital worth 17 million dollars. The construction was completed by 90 percent. Sold for 1 million 290 dollars. And the previous minister was right before you, and he was good at privatizing the object. Nevertheless, I would like the Ministry to provide an answer: On the basis of which documents were good for privatizing the object. The more I'm worth right now, the commission will be handling this object, because the actual understatement took place with the blessing of the Ministry. The second question. I would like you to answer the question: on the basis of which documents were given good for the privatization of the Primorski sanatorium, the "Friendship", the name of Gorkok, who today in the recreational zone actually got good for privatization. [[It's in Odessa.]] These are the kind of sanatoriums that treat cardiovascular diseases. I'm going to ask you to answer these questions after the end of Government Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u101	As for the question, well, you could have asked or asked questions when the minister answered from the rostrum. Well, you can't do that! And take the time! Vasil Bartkov, are you ready? Please, Bartkiva's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u102	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. I was getting ready to come out of the rostrum, but I'll try to fit what I wanted to say in three minutes. I'd like to draw your attention, fellow officials, to the way that some officials from medicine are "helping" they are helping to get charity in Ukraine from the U.S. Projekhop Foundation, which applies in particular to Mewakor. [[in quotes]] These medicines are used to lower cholesterol levels and protect people from heart attacks. Thus, Mr. Pasicnik, deputy minister of health, effectively hindered access to humanitarian aid, which is then to be given free of charge to more than 8,000 people in Ukraine. So I propose, Hennady Andriyovich, that I assign a profile committee to develop a question to listen to the Head of the State Medical and Medical Services in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u103	Let's protocolly give this commission to a profile committee to study this issue and report it. Anatoly Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u104	Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I think you'll all agree that today's discussion with the red thread was about the main issue, or the very main problem: why our medicine and the problems that we are discussing today are in this state. The main reason, I think, is that you all understand, is in the economy. In addition to the government’s help, it is said that up to 85 percent of the allocated funds in Ukraine are paid by workers in the field. And according to the World Health Organization estimates, if more than 30 percent of the world’s spending structures weigh more than in terms of income, this is evidence of medical processes that are irreversible. And the main thing, comrades, I support, was the chairman of the committee saying that we should be looking at parliamentary hearings as soon as possible, or maybe having a separate Government Day -- the issue of alcoholism in our country and smoking. Because this is also the shearing of the problems that we are dealing with today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u105	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I have two proposals for a draft regulation. I propose that the Cabinet of Ministers develop two targeted programmes, I stress that the Cabinet of Ministers will not be put in place, but the Cabinet of Ministers. First. Centralized and district and district health facilities with special diagnostic equipment to detect early-stage disease symptoms. And the second. Provision of ambulances by special cardiology vehicles to provide medical assistance as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u107	Gerasimov Ivan Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u108	Dear Gennady Andreevich, distinguished members of the people! I wanted to speak for three minutes, but you give me one minute, it's very difficult. But I wish to say that veterans of war, labour and military service have special attention in this regard. And what do you have to say? If a network of hospitals and medicines are still maintained for war veterans, for which the veterans are grateful to the State, veterans and other pensioners must pay a large amount of money for treatment. Thus, article 49 of the Ukrainian Constitution and other legislation are virtually not being implemented. It must therefore be noted that there are no public health and social programmes for veterans and older persons in Ukraine today. And the second. Of the sick older people, every second of us in the country requires an annual rehabilitation treatment. If for people who have had a heart attack, such treatment is provided for and conducted everywhere, this is a major problem for people with brain disorders. The family in which there is such a disease is in extreme emotional and material distress. We therefore believe that an interdepartmental document between the Ministry of Labour, Social Policy, the Ministry of Health and the Red Cross should be developed to provide care and care for the sick and the family, such as cross-country mattresses, pillows, mobility devices, hygiene equipment and the nutrition of the sick. Unfortunately, we have almost nothing in the country. We therefore hope that the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Red Cross will take the necessary measures as soon as possible to remedy the material situation of things and help the people of the older generation who have lost their health in the war, to help them in the post-war recovery of the population and to do everything they need for them. It's a duty of the State! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u109	Zara Katusheva, please. In a minute, please, in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u110	Dear Gennady Andreevich, the people's deputies present! As a representative of the Crimean region, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in a deplorable state, the Crimea population is suffering from cardiovascular and vascular diseases. Although I'm sure it's not just a problem of 2.5 million Crimeans. Similar problems have been raised here today by my colleagues. In Crimea, we don't even have a specialized surgical office for cardiovascular and vascular diseases. This is the factor that affects the high rate of disability and mortality in Crimea. A 30 - year - old computer tomographer in Crimea does not meet the need for modern medical development. The apparatus called nuclear resonance does not exist in the Crimea at all. There is no modern computer tomographer at least 95 years of output. The only Simens machine we have in Crimea, in the eighth hospital, is simply unable to provide a proper survey of the Crimean. In the main mass in the hospitals, there are no modern laboratory methods of diagnosis, definition, study of cardiovascular and vascular diseases, no blood markers, definition of blood gases, emergency express diagnostics, determination of biochemical electrolytes in the blood, excuse me, a minute. I'd like to focus on the fact that we're in the neurosurgery department, where we're already operating on something, there's no tools. This list could continue indefinitely. There is absolutely no diagnosis of coronary disease in the Crimea, the so-called chronography method. We have heart disease in Crimea in our 30-year-olds. Recently, a 30 - year - old man died. All this says, I know from the press that Zaporozhye is now working well in this direction, partly in Donetsk. I would like to say that there are a lot of professionals and there is nothing but logistics. I would like to consider my statement to be an official parliamentary request and to refer to the Crimea region.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u111	Is everything so bad in Crimea? The Crimea ministers, and you say everything's bad. Crimea priority. Leonid Chernewicki, please, and let's finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u112	Dear Gennady Andreevich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Darnicke constituency, Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine. I want to tell you that not only in Crimea, Gennady Andreevich, we have so bad. We have all over the country slowly, quietly, silently dying pensioners, people who fought there and didn't fight -- different, but there are no programmes that the Ministry of Health could offer to these people. What's more, I meet hundreds of people every week who are at the top of every range. We're calling an ambulance. She's not coming. "Emergency" brings people back and does nothing. I have facts when I come from a hospital like this, but I'm moving on to street people now, aren't I? - they're just being taken out and thrown into the woods. Actually, we're talking now. The issue of hunger has recently been discussed, so I would like to say that the problem that exists with health today is much more serious than famine. And, by the way, I keep talking to the Minister, and now, in the presence of all the deputies, I want to invite him in. For 4 years, there is a centre that I have the honour to look after and where about 2 million people have been rehabilitated, let's go and figure something out. You need bets, you need people. It's just a nightmare, that's all. That's unimaginable. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u113	I'd like to ask the minister to conduct a service investigation into people, you say, take them out into the woods and dump them there. You've talked about what amputation legs did without drugs and stuff. Andriy Volodymyrovich, let's conduct a service investigation into these issues, what are the materials in Leonid Chernowitz -- let him give it to the Ministry, and inform the Supreme Council on these issues. Dear colleagues! Question completed. If there's anything to say from the government, please. Is there not? None. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. The concept of an international consortium for the administration and development of Ukraine’s gas transport system He will report to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, Sergius Fedorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u114	Honourable Chairman, Honourable Members of the Supreme Council. Let me tell you about the government's work, which was aimed at implementing an intergovernmental agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the government of the Russian Federation on the strategic cooperation of the gas sector. On June 9, 2002, the President of Ukraine, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, and President of the Russian Federation Putin, signed an application for strategic cooperation in the gas field, which envisioned the establishment of an international consortium for the administration and development of Ukraine's gas transport system. On June 10, 2002, a joint statement was adopted by the President of Ukraine, the President of the Russian Federation and the Federal Chancellor of Germany, according to which the Heads of State supported the initiative of the Federal Chancellor of the FRF to participate in the consortium of German gas companies and to establish a working group with the participation of senior officials from Ukraine, Russia and Germany to coordinate this activity. As part of the implementation of the provisions signed by the bilateral declaration of 7 October 2002 in Chisinau, a framework agreement was signed between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on strategic cooperation in the gas field. The objective of the agreement is to activate the bilateral interaction between Ukraine and Russia on ensuring a reliable supply of Russian natural gas to European consumers, and to transform bilateral Ukrainian-Russian gas relations into a pan-European context, giving Ukraine the right to become a full participant in the implementation of the European Union energy strategy aimed at the development of a whole European gas transport network. Liberalisation of the European gas market Approval of the only legal basis for all participants in accordance with the requirements of the European Energy Charter. Thus, according to the signed documents, the creation of an international consortium will enable Ukraine to achieve these goals. Effective use of Ukrainian gas pipelines, uninterrupted transit of natural gas into European countries through Ukraine. Reliable supply of natural gas to consumers, accelerating Ukraine's integration into the European world economic space. Maintaining the role of the gas transport system as one of the main sources of the state budget. Designated in the above-mentioned inter-government agreement by the Ukrainian-owned NAC "Naftaftogas Ukraine" and the Russian-based VAT "Gazprom" which prepared and worked and signed an agreement on the establishment of an international consortium for the administration and development of Ukraine's gas transport system. The general principles of creating a consortium set out in the contract provide for two successive phases: pre-investment and investment. The main tasks of the pre-investment phase were to develop the concept of consortium activity, to prepare the technical and economic basis of the project, to develop a business plan and to finance it, to define the legal form of the relationship between the consortium and the owner of the gas transport system in Ukraine. During the pre-investment phase, the work plan for the consortium project, the creation of a working group for its execution, the identification of industry experts and consultants has been approved, the technical tasks for the execution of the project have been approved, and the technical status analysis of the UK GTS has been carried out. Conceptual models of consortium function have been developed, and directions have been agreed on to increase the amount of gas transit in Ukraine. The conclusion of this phase will be that the parties will decide on the size, structure, order of statutory capital formation and implementation of the consortium's investment phase, taking into account financial, tax, legal and other aspects, as well as the signing between NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" and VAT "Gazprom" of the consortium's activities, which reinforces the basis of their relationship as partners, the conditions for financing and conducting the consortium's business. Two representatives from NAC Naftogaz Ukraine and VAT Gazprom and one representative from the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation joined the elected council of the Ukrainian Party. On the Ukrainian side, it was determined: Dubina Oleg Viktorovich, Voronin, and Kovalko. From the Russian side: Kristenko, Razanov, Seleznov The council of the participants was elected the Dubina of Oleg Viktorovich. The board of participants at its meetings made decisions regarding the creation of a consortium. The working group prepared guidelines and directives to ensure the preservation of Ukraine’s interests in the creation of a consortium. The interministerial working group worked according to the approved regulations of its work within the limits given by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The meetings of the inter-ministerial working group addressed the following issues: the prospects for natural gas consumption in European countries and Ukraine's participation in the provision of these volumes; the technical capabilities of the GTS; the prospects for transporting natural gas to Ukraine's territory; the necessary investments in Ukraine's gas transport system; the results of NAC working groups and consultants on Naftogaz Ukraine and VAT on Gazprom; the results of the technical task; the assessment of the necessary investments to ensure the reliability of transport of natural gas through Ukraine's gas transport system and the period up to 2013; the results of meetings of the participants' board; the International Consortium on the Management and Development of the Gas Transport System of Ukraine; the proposals of the German side for the establishment of an international consortium; and the conceptual model for the international consolidation of the international economy, the management and development of the transport system. On 7 May 2003, a tripartite Ukrainian-Russian-German meeting was also considered on a corporate level on the creation of an international consortium and the preparation of a tripartite meeting of senior officials from Ukraine, Russia and Germany. It's an offer from the Argentinian company Bradas. Preparation for meeting senior officials from Ukraine, Russia, and Germany The international consortium’s conceptual models were considered by the Inter-ministerial Working Group, which were developed by designated experts. During the development of natural gas management models and operating functions models, Ukrainian legislation has been carefully studied and analysed for regulating relations in the oil and gas complex, the conditions for transport services and the supply of natural gas. Given the trends and prospects for increasing natural gas consumption by European countries, the conditions and volumes of natural gas supply, the definition of the gas market in Western Europe in long-term contracts, Gazprom, with leading gas companies, and the results of analytical research by international energy agencies, a marketing survey of the gas market in Western European countries has been carried out and the prospects for the project have been identified in the event of an increase in the volume of natural gas transit across Ukraine. The Inter-ministerial Working Group and the Board of Participants of the International Consortium have concluded that, at this stage, the supply management models and operational functions presented are unacceptable to Ukraine and Russia for various reasons. On July 9, 2003, the Association's Council took stock of the work plan, decided to expand Ukraine's gas transport system through the construction of a new pipeline from the east to the west border, which would increase gas transit volume by 20 to 30 billion cubic metres per year by 2013. In order to implement these decisions, it was directed to prepare a business plan for an investment project to expand Ukraine's gas transport system with appropriate legal, economic, financial justification. There is a project resource base that can be formed by the Russian side on the basis of its own gas and on the basis of the available technical capabilities of medium-Asian natural gas. On August 26, a meeting of members of the Society was held, during which a report on the work of the consortium was approved during the preinvestment phase. The decision of the board of participants on an investment project to expand Ukraine's gas transport system towards Novopskov-Uzhgrad- is agreed. Hai, with an increase in the volume of transport of natural gas in this direction, taking into account the operation of the pipeline, both autonomously and in synchronous mode with Ukraine's active gas transport system, and accepting it as the first phase of the consortium's investment phase. Consider the basis for further work developed and presented for consideration by the business plan of the investment project. During the meetings, the Russian side proposed, as part of a comprehensive solution to the tasks of the NAC International Consortium Naftogaz, Ukraine and Wat Gazprom, to continue working with the consultants to calculate the efficiency of the management of Ukraine's GTS on concession conditions and to complete the work by December 1. Since the work plan will be processed by 20 November of this year, they will be discussed at a meeting of the inter-ministerial working group separately after the date. As decided by the meetings of the members of the association, the term of the pre-investment phase of the association and the powers of the council of the members of the association was extended until December 31st, on which the signed addition to the contract between NAC Naftogaz and VAT Gazprom was signed. In the course of bilateral Ukrainian-Russian consultations at the level of experts on the creation of an international consortium of Minpalevenergo and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have repeatedly challenged the Russian side with regard to the holding of a tripartite high-level meeting and the possibilities and conditions for participation in the project of other participants. The Russian side is convinced that it is appropriate to invite a third party to work after addressing the fundamental issues of bilateral cooperation. Accordingly, the Russian side refused to negotiate at a high level, with the result that senior officials met on numerous occasions. But the work of involving other participants in the international consortium continued. In the context of the implementation of a tripartite statement by the Presidents of Ukraine, the Russian Federation and the Federal Chancellor of Germany on December 19-20, 2002, a joint Ukrainian-German consultation was held in Minpalevenergo, which initiated the development of the Ukrainian-German dialogue on mechanisms for the implementation of the three-party political agreements. On April 23, the first Ukrainian-Russian-German high-level meeting took place in Kiev, Ukraine and Russia, and representatives of representatives. and a trade mission to the Embassy of the Federal Republic of Germany. In the course of the meeting, the parties informed each other about the work being done to create a consortium and develop Ukraine’s gas transport system. In the follow-up, the working group worked on issues and agendas to meet at a high triangular level, preparing guidelines for members of the Ukrainian side. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has repeatedly sent notes to organize and hold a tripartite meeting. During the work of the interministerial working group, the Ukrainian side also held consultations on several occasions and received suggestions for participation in the consortium from the leading gas companies France, Italy, and others. Participants in the consortium, as required by article 5 of the Inter-Governmental Agreement on Strategic Cooperation in the Gas Sector, taking into account the agreements reached by the joint statement of the Presidents of Ukraine and Russia and the Federal Chancellor of the FRN of June 10, will jointly determine the conditions for participation in the consortium of European gas companies. Taking into account the national interests of Ukraine in the long-term provision of natural gas to the people and the efficient use of the gas transport system, we consider it appropriate to carry out specific projects for the creation of an international consortium, to consider including the countries of the Caspian region. To this end, in the first phase, start negotiations with the Russian Federation on the involvement of these countries and establish mutually beneficial cooperation for the construction of gas pipelines that ensure the transit of natural gas to the border of Ukraine, both within the Russian Federation and within the territory of the Central Asian States. Dear National Deputies! A great deal of work has been done to implement a joint statement by the President of Ukraine, Russia, between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Russian Federation on strategic cooperation in the gas sector. The work continues. The work confirmed the President's and the government's faithful decision on the need for increased capacity to improve the efficiency of Ukraine's gas pipelines, to ensure the smooth transit of gas to Ukraine's territory to European countries and to ensure the reliability of Ukrainian consumers. Work needs to be continued for its logical completion. We ask for support from the government regarding the establishment of the International Consortium for the Construction of Additional Powers for the Transport of Russian Natural Gas through Ukraine towards the Alexanders. This will allow foreign investment, increase the volume of gas transit to EU member countries, increase the revenue to the State budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u115	Please sign up for the questions. In 10 minutes, let's take it away. Light up, please. Michael Pavlovsky. Next Carnauchus.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u116	Thank you, Hennady Andriyovich. Dear Sergey Fedorovich, you're one of the few in the government who stands for national interests at least a little bit. So I ask you very frankly to answer three questions. You said it was bigger. They're here, and I counted it as an economist. From what's signed today, I see direct losses in 30 years, because this is about 120 billion dollars coming into the budget, taking into account the loss of jobs there in pipe and other industries -- and only 200 billion dollars -- are direct losses. The other one. Please tell me if we are. conditions, we give Russia and Germany a third in ownership, using pipelines. Does Russia give us an equivalent part of its gas fields, oil pipelines, and Germany? If not, where is equality? And the third. Don't you think that's the idea that this one is signed enough not to recognize Ukraine as a market economy country? Because in the market, everyone's looking for benefits, and we're just one loss. This means that we must not be allowed into the market system. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u117	Thank you, Mikhail Antonovich. I'm reporting on behalf of a government that advocates the interests of Ukraine. This is the first time. It's different. If you listened carefully to my report, today's decisions taken at the level of the founders' council and the interministerial working group did not make any decisions about transferring existing ones from the transport system to any legal entities. This is about expanding the capacity of the gas transport system and building a new branch of Alexander. Dogs to Uzhgrad. This will allow an additional capacity to increase to 30 billion cubic meters and accordingly increase the government's revenue, that is, no loss will the state bear, only profit will be earned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u118	Instead of Karnauha Mikola Rudkowski, please. Rudkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u119	Dear reporter, please tell me you're looking at the construction of a new pipe from now on. And why don't you do that from the border of Kazakhstan to the end of the western border of Ukraine, so that you can have a guaranteed supply of Asian gas to European markets, because to Alexander. There's still a clean Russian pipe, and it's going to be controlled again by the Russian Federation for the supply of Asian gas to Ukraine? That's the first question. And the second question. What tax base will apply to the newly built gas transport network? Will the same income be paid for transportation through Ukraine? Will the same dollar be a hundred kilometers per thousand cubic meters and so on and so forth?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u120	Thank you, Mikolayovich. What's the direct connection to the extra power building project? Why Alexander Guy? The work was done by appropriate institutions. And to increase power, you need this point right over here. It's using the minimum cost, as they say. As for taxation of the international gas transport consortium, it will be registered according to the agreement in Ukraine and will be fully subject to applicable Ukrainian legislation, including tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u121	Omelyan Pussy, please. Next Nadya.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u122	Please give it to Rodion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u123	Please, Mikhail Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u124	Communist faction, Rodionov. Please tell me, is there a gas contract in Ukraine that is most beneficial? This is what we're talking about for the consortium, Russia, this pipeline. The first question is, do we have better partners, right? And the second question is, when will this be resolved definitively? This is, for example, a long-term supply of 10 15 years. We can't talk about gas, gas every year. Is that what prevents Ukraine from translating this into political space? What do we benefit from?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u125	Thank you for asking. If this is about the direction of transit of Russian or Central Asian gas, Ukraine is on the path of transit and we must use this opportunity today to expand our capacity of our gas transport system. As far as long-term arrangements are concerned. They exist today with the Russian Federation. But in order to strengthen and strengthen, it is necessary today to implement what is said in the joint statement of two presidents and then three heads of state. And what today is a joint agreement between the government of Russia and the government of Ukraine. If we don't do that, the risks of a natural gas supplier State through an area by one country are purely economic, not political, they are very large and they need to be reduced. So either these supplier states will diversify supply routes and choose other countries. Or we offer them better conditions, offer our territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u126	Please, Basil Nadrag, the next one is Stay.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u127	Dear Sergey Fedorovich, I understand perfectly that creating such a complex design as a consortium does not allow it to do so in a day, two weeks and even a month. But still, I would ask you, please tell me if there are any, in your opinion, calendar elements that we can say, yes, we are planning on going out on that date on organizational issues. For such a period, we will go there after completing logistical matters. And since that date, we can count on this consortium to start working and doing what it's supposed to do. Please. I'd like to ask you to give your vision on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u128	Well, the terms you're talking about are defined by agreements. And the pre-investment phase continued until December 31st, and the tech-economic justification we have to get by December 1st. The investment phase will then begin: the creation of an international gas transport consortium. It will take 2-3 years to build an additional branch of 20 to 30 billion, as predicted today's previous calculations. So in 2-3 years, we're going to be able to get an extra power in the territory of Ukraine. If you are satisfied with that answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u129	Please, stay. Igor Ostas' microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u130	Thank you. Mr. Ermilov, myself from the gas field, I live not far from Dashava, from Dashava, the cradle of our gas industry. And indeed, our gas pipelines are seriously concerned about whether we can protect our national interests in this project. So I have two questions. How much real documents have the agreements proved to be involved in this project by our Western partners: France, Germany, Italy, etc., etc.? The second question. Was it really not the question that the consortium included not only the Ukrainian pipe but the whole pipe: was it from Kazakhstan, or was it from Russia, but the whole complex of gas transportation systems? And the third question. Why is there no government representative in the observation board today? There are Ukrainians who are not part of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u131	The last question is not for me, Your Honor. As far as the involvement of Western companies and medium-Asian companies is concerned, I have made this very clear in my report. Once the pre-investment phase is completed, the agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation will determine the involvement of other countries. We have enough proposals today — from France, Italy, Germany, and others.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u132	Please, Leveko Lukyanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u133	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko faction. Sergei Dmitrovitch, after all, you know, there are a lot of doubts. Doubts about the purpose of creating this consortium. One, just, you know, simple. Is it more convenient for the Ukrainian economy to manage the pipes itself that are in Ukrainian territory? The other one. Here is the statement: “Declaration by the President of the Russian Federation and the President of Ukraine on strategic cooperation in the gas field”. It's said that it's in the management and development of the gas transport system. The very name of the consortium includes the word "manufacturing and development." If this was just a "development," you could think about what we have -- Ukraine is running it, but here's the new pipe, a new enterprise is being created, and we need to build it together. And here's the "governance" that we already have. There is no point in passing on to anyone else when Ukraine itself is capable of managing what it has. So that's the second question. And third, the one my fellow MPs have already said. If this is an international transport consortium, why isn't Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, that is, those countries that are going to supply gas? Russia? And why are there no Western nations that are consumers? Then we would understand that there would be justice and equality. And so article 7 says, it was signed by two presidents, that neither side can give up its rights to anyone or anyone else. In this I see the desire of one side -- Russia -- to actually limit the rights of Ukraine. Please develop my doubts.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u134	Thank you for asking. As for the transfer to someone in the administration of an existing gas transport system, no decisions on this issue were taken by the government or the authorities that were created, and I counted them today that are working on creation. The two models discussed are operating functions and supply management, which are now considered unacceptable at this stage. What's on the Russian side's offer to deal with concession issues is now being worked out by experts. But no discussion, no decision has been made. This is about building an additional power that is entirely in the interests of Ukraine today. As for the involvement of other partners, both Western Europe and Central Asia, we stand in these positions completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u135	Time's up. Have a seat, please. The head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Kljev Andri Petrovich, will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u136	Dear Gennady Andreevich! Dear colleagues, the People's Deputies! Devoted representatives of the Government! The maintenance of the current situation of expert assessments will not provide the necessary conditions for the sound functioning, modernization and development of the gas transport system, and improve the financial performance of its work. The delay in meeting these challenges will lead to a complication of the situation, a reduction in the reliability of the gas transport system and transit capabilities of Ukraine. While the debate on the usefulness of the consortium continues, economic logic requires an answer to more pragmatic questions: " In what form, on what legislative basis will a consortium be established and who are its participants?" Regrettably, there is still no organizational and economic model and appropriate justification for the project. The indecisiveness of these issues only contributes to the emergence of many speculations. However, the consortium's opponents do not offer any serious options to address this strategic challenge. To date, all parties to the process have found that the establishment of a consortium requires considerable time and professional development. The preparatory work has been under way for almost a year. For projects of this magnitude, this period may be extended, as confirmed by the practice of establishing transnational projects. This is one of the most ambitious international projects on the Eurasian continent. We must therefore appeal exclusively to data, facts and verified assessments. I am sure that there should be no hasty decisions and conclusions and more political speculation on this issue. As already noted, the problem of modernization and development of the gas transport system in its solution is multivariable. Each option has its own pluses and negatives. One option is to transfer the gas transport system to the concession. The application of the concession model requires that the following main points be taken into account. This is the duration of the contract, the distribution of risks, the size of the collection, the implementation by the investment concessionaire. The following are among the merits of the concession. The financial burden is lifted from the State, as the concessionaire undertakes to carry out all financing, management and ongoing repair of the facilities transferred to the concession. A sufficiently rigid long-term legal framework is established, i.e. stable relations between the State and the concessionaire. Concession contracts enable private, including foreign capital without losing strategic control over vital systems and facilities. Thus, the interests of the State consisting, first and foremost, of reducing the costs of the facilities and second, the State is replenishing the budget through the proceeds of concession payments. What risks? Risks.Schemes, returning the risks of applying the concession model are related. that the conditions of operation of the object of the concession are at the top of the agenda. Therefore, the investment attractiveness of the object of the concession is limited to the time frame, i.e. the duration of the concession. The State is temporarily deprived of the possibility of making more objective use of the facility concerned. There is no possibility of altering the form of ownership of the object for the duration of its concession. The transfer of gas transport facilities to the concession will be permitted under Ukrainian law. Another option is to privatize the gas transport system with the State's stock control package. You all know we already have a bill like this, it's registered with us in the Supreme Council. It is proposed to sell part, 49 per cent of the gas transport system. The merits of the model stem from the purposes of privatization. What are the purposes of privatization? First, it's an increase in the income of the State. Second, opening up new opportunities for strategic partnerships, creating an enabling environment for attracting investment in core funds or enhancing the efficiency of operational management. Thus, the gas transport system is monitored, the impact on profit capitalization and dividends, quality management and participation in system development policies as a whole. The risks of privatization are linked. First, the problem of determining the market value of the gas transport system. It is clear that the valuation cannot be based on a book value, as it does not take into account the potential profitability of the system and future cash revenues. Secondly, the issues of guaranteeing investor compliance with its obligations. Moreover, privatization and the establishment of enterprises with foreign capital in line pipeline transport are prohibited by existing legislation. It is a difficult process to bring about changes. Even if the legislative framework was quickly amended, the process of privatization itself would take a long time. Respectable People's Deputies, distinguished colleagues! For Ukraine, the overall characteristics of the project under consideration are national priorities. This means that, in preparing and implementing it, public benefits must be ensured and national interests protected. The draft document, in addition to the classical indicators of redemption, the rates of return, the valuation of cash flows should be an assessment of the social impact of the project. These include the number and characteristics of retained and new jobs, the impact on business activity in other areas, and tax revenues. We believe that it is necessary to identify the form in which the consortium will work and the conditions of this work more quickly. The need to optimize the negative. The options for concessions, privatizations may be considered by another third, fourth variants, as well as the achievement of maximum public benefits and national interests demonstrate the usefulness of considering an integrated approach to the consortium model. On the basis of the above, at this stage, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council take note of the information provided by the Cabinet of Ministers on this matter. The final choice of the consortium model with the appropriate justifications should be made available to the people's deputies. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u137	Will there be questions for a coconspirator? Please, Yuri Karmazin, next, Sergey Shevchuk, then Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u138	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter! I understand from your report that you don't really approve of what's done, and you're saying that you still need to harmonize the concept. But I would like to know your committee's opinion on a treaty that has already been signed and has entered into force between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation. Can't he see the committee? Which has already taken effect, I say again, as if under this agreement. Can't the committee see the danger here, or can't the committee see the violation of the rules of the Constitution and the law on international agreements? If you see him, what is your solution to the situation today? That's the first question. And the second question is, can you see and give examples if we were offered fate in Gazprom, Rurgaga and so on? And whether a sufficient fund is one million now foreseen. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u139	With regard to a million, of course, I understand that this amount has been made available to the statutory fund so that the gas consortium and the working group that actually exists now begin to work and start to work on projects, on justifications. With regard to the idea itself, the very work project that is currently being prepared, of course, I think that no billion, if any, will be implemented, these projects, no billion of us will be able to deal with you. At least the decision that has been taken, I believe it is right to build a new pipeline. The project is estimated at 2-2.5 billion. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to hurt you. If this project is implemented, our State will naturally expand its capacity with regard to gas transport systems. There's a normal work process going on, people working, professionals working. Of course, on the part of the Cabinet of Ministers and on the part of a number of people's deputies and members of the Committee, the process is monitored. And all the deputies, members of the Committee on the TEC, clearly believe that the issue of the protection of the national interests of our State should be at the top of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u140	Please, Yuri Manchulenko. Next Sergey Shevchuk. Manchulenka's microphone, please. Manchulenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u141	Please, Sergey Shevchuk, next Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u142	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, NDP faction. Dear Andrew Petrovich, the arguments you have given us are certainly serious enough. But I have a question for you. As far as this project can be in line with the Ukrainian Earth Code, which we have already adopted, and as you know, since 2005 the sale and use of Ukrainian land will begin. Let me remind you, this is a huge area. When I'm talking about gas pipelines, I'm talking about the fertile soil that's underneath it, the beneficial fossils. Will a Ukrainian citizen have the right to use this Ukrainian land? Will it already be owned by an international consortium? And wouldn't that be the case, let's say over this land roads, bridges, electricity lines, or just say, the garden is towering around the house. The Ukrainian citizen will no longer be able to use it. And then Ukraine will be divided not by Dniper, as politicians say, but simply by a pipe into two parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u143	Well, you know, we have to do everything we can to keep Ukraine from dividing by the axis of the gas transport system. That's why it can't be here. With regard to the review of the model already in place, it is not a transfer of ownership to the same gas transport consortium. A number of models are under way and the transfer of ownership is not a matter for discussion. As for land, land sales, well, perhaps when we do so, there is customary international practice. Under some facilities if the land is sold, if it's private property and it's under some kind of facility, I think it's going to have to work under existing legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u144	And when you said "Our Ukraine," you didn't mean the faction, did you? Please, George Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u145	Georgi Manchulenko, Hennaday Andryovich George Manchulenko, 203rd District, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Andrew Petrovich, a few questions for you. One: which share of the shares is held by the Russian Gazprom in Rurgaga? That's the first question. The second question is, what is the relation of the planned new pipeline to the existing Ukrainian gas transport system and to the international gas transport consortium created on this basis? We don't have the power of the current system, or have we loaded it so much, this system that we can't pump all the gas that goes through our gas transport system? So you don't have to take these new projects away from the main problem. If you go to the oil pipe, TNCs on the Trans-Prosian highway pipelines seem to have claimed a leak of about 5 million tons. At this point, they've only gone up 2 million tons. Then why do we need new pipes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u146	As far as I know, Rurgaz is about 5 or 6 percent. I may be wrong, I can't tell you exactly, but somewhere like this. With regard to new projects, we have virtually everyone working on the committee in the fuel and energy complex. And almost most of our members of our committee, the opinion that the more we will develop the gas transport system, the more income will be in our State. What is lacking now is, if we take the strategy, the energy strategy of the same Russia, if we take the plans of the same Uzbekistan, the same Turkmenistan, when we pump its own gas into Europe, of course, if we sum it all up, our own, now existing capacity in Ukraine will obviously be lacking. In order for us to build new branches, develop this whole thing, new pipelines so that those surpluses of gas that are ready to go to export do not go the other way. I mean, they can go through the Baltic. You know, they can go through Asian countries, through the same Turkey, then they can go to Europe. A number of projects are already being built, the same Blue Stream. That's why we should, that's my opinion, of course we didn't discuss this, this is the issue on the committee, but I think that most specialists will support me, that we should, as much as possible, reasonably, develop the gas transport system, and, of course, where there is an economic feasibility, build new pipelines.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u147	Mikola Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u148	Dear reporter, please tell the Supreme Council whether it would be more appropriate to take a concrete decision-recommendation of the government to create a gas transport consortium with the participation of Asian gas supplier states: Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, to commit all over Russia to construct a pipe that the Russian Federation would not be able to operate. And thus ensure the supply of Asian gas to the European market? That's the first question. And the second. Don't you think the Russians raised the issue of creation after the chaos began in Ukraine with the appointment of oil - gas leaders? First the foresters, then the metallurgy, then someone else. Perhaps it would be appropriate for the committee to show principle here and recommend, to set order in this part?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u149	I believe that this project should best be considered pragmatically. With regard to our recommendations, how to act, I think there is a point, I know that the deadline is December, to wait, and to wait for the results of the work of this working group, to look at the options and to choose from these options the most beneficial one that will best protect the national interests of our State. [[our deputies, committee members actually work in this working group]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u150	Vladimir Cherniak, please, one last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u151	Dear Andrew Petrovich! I like the way you think about what needs to be done about the model of the international consortium, which means that you recognize that the proposed model in general is imperfect and that it does not suit the national interests of Ukraine. After all, how does this model of yours see your committee? Again, in general terms. And the second question. Are you asking about an international consortium in the context of resolving the border issues between Ukraine and Russia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u152	Thank you for a very interesting question. You know, I think that the gas consortium and the gas consortium project are a separate project, it's completely different from the project of building our borders with Russia. As for the gas transport consortium and the model, I believe that there is no limit to perfection. And, of course, even after you and I are set up in the model, maybe after that, we'll come and finish this whole thing. Here. But I think it should be in the head. The question must be: first, this is what the gas consortium should do. We must not lose the gas transport system under the control of the State. First. Second. We must create conditions to attract investment in the gas transport system. Third. We need to understand that clearly. To make sure that the stable volume of gas that is now going to go and, if it is said to go, on schedule, the gas increases to increase and comply with the schedule. Fourth. To make it clear that the gas that passes and is consumers and none of the consumers or suppliers of gas 3, 4 or 5 are building a thread around Ukraine. But of course, this is also one of the main issues, so that there will be no cuts in budget income. Multivariability and many challenges that need to be addressed. Because I think it's a very complicated project, and that's why I think that Mintopenergo and the Government are doing the right thing, that they're not in a hurry to make final decisions, and they're doing everything in a transparent and public manner, rather than then answering the incomprehensible questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u153	Please sit down, Andrew Petrovich. He's reporting from the Goodima Committee, Alexander Mikolayovich. Please. In five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u154	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, distinguished members of the government. I'm actually surprised that such a serious tone of government today on the question of consortium is not an ingredient of humor, because a year and a half that government and we are doing that consortium must be an element of humor. And we have to look at this in the context of a question that has been in Ukrainian society for 10 years. What about our gas transport system? As a member of the interdepartmental working group of two members of the Cabinet of Ministers, as the author of a bill on the specialities of the privatisation of the Ukrainian gas transport system, and as the author of a bill amending the Act on Concession, which I propose to ban the transfer to the concession of the Ukrainian gas transport system, I conclude that the situation in Ukraine is not the worst option. So I'm proposing in a decision that we're going to make on the results of Government Day, that we recommend to the government not to make any decisions from the consortium until 1 November next year, until the Ukrainian society chooses a new president who, together with the government of popular trust. the legitimate right to make strategic decisions relating to the Ukrainian gas transport system. In response to the question of the People's Deputy Karmazin, I would like to say from "Our Ukraine" and from a group of experts working on the issue of the International Gas Consortium that the agreements signed by China and Cassian for an international consortium or cooperation in the gas field are, to our belief, in conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine, the current legislation and that agreement should be ratified by Parliament. Only a problem if the government made that agreement to ratify parliament last September is there any doubt that this treaty would be ratified by Parliament. But with no less conviction, I can say that if the government does listen to our recommendations and makes a treaty ratification in November or December of this year, in the context of the signed agreement on the Single Economic Space, I am convinced that Parliament will not ratify the agreement on cooperation in the gas field. I'd like to quote again a paragraph in the government's report that relates to direction and answer to questions, and where does Ukraine move in the context of cooperation with Russia in the gas field. The government's report notes that the purpose of the agreement is to give Ukraine the right to become a full participant in the implementation of the European Union's energy strategy for the development of a pan-European gas transport network and the liberalisation of the European gas market, the approval of the only legal basis for all participants in accordance with the requirements of the European Energy Charter. This, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, is a beautiful paragraph in the comments that Ukraine must make on its course. Of course, to the European Union. But in the context of the agreement signed by the Presidents of Ukraine and Russia on the Single Economic Space Agreement, we have to say that this paragraph today sounds like abuse, because we need to know that Russia is the one that opposes the liberalisation of the European gas market. Russia today does not sign the European Energy Charter. So in answer to the question: does the agreement on international gas cooperation and consortium conflict, of course, the answer is clear: this agreement contradicts the political and external economic course of our State, approved, should be noted in the government programmes of the two governments - the government of Yashchenka and the government of Yanukovich. The next question, which is now the answer to the question: Are the treaties signed in force law in conflict? We remember, though, that no one today refutes the comments of Minfin, Minouste, and Mineconomy. You all remember that Deputy Finance Minister Baulyn said good-bye to his office for publishing damage data in the Ukrainian budget if a consortium on parity principles was created. Today, when we talk about economic justifications, we must recognize that there is no such economic justification in nature. That's what I'm saying as a member of the interdisciplinary working group. And by concession. Dear friends, in the Ukrainian government, and in the Ukrainian Parliament, and in the interministerial working group, no one is seriously considering the issue of concession. This is a duck that is being launched by Russian politicians, the Russian media, and it is convenient for them, especially when the issue of repayment is being considered today. Ukrainians, agree to the concession, and then in the case of concessional wages, we'll offer the one-and-a-half billion that you owe us to count as concession fees. Clearly, the concession is unacceptable in view of Ukraine’s national interests. And finally, there were national MPs and politicians who had doubts a year and a half ago about whether we needed an international consortium on parity principles or not. I think that the latest statements by President Putin of Russia and the latest statements by the famous oligarch Anatoly Chubays, particularly that Putin considers the Ukrainian gas transport system to be a strategic direction for Russia in the context of its perception as part of the former single gas transport system of the Russian Union. Well, Chubais says that Russia has aggressive plans for Ukrainian strategic objects, I think it will convince all the pessimists who are still in that room today. And I repeat to the end what I started. We need to understand that the Ukrainian government, from the point of view of internal and external motives, cannot today make the only right decision from the point of view of Ukraine's national interests. It's not a disaster. Because no less wise decision that a government can make today is made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u155	Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Yuri Carmazin, next to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u156	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear government officials! Long - Suffering Ukrainian People! Today, the concept of an international consortium for the administration and development of Ukraine's gas transport system is a matter of national security. And there's a question, in fact, how does this Ukrainian people want to just search further. I'd like to draw your attention to the legal side of the problem. Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on Strategic Cooperation in the Gas Sector. Article 11 determines that this covenant does not affect the rights and obligations of the parties arising from other international treaties to which they are parties. Thus it is recognized as an international agreement. If this is an international agreement, it should be subject to the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts. If so, it will enter into force only when it is ratified by Parliament. This comes out of the Constitution of Ukraine. What is written in this covenant? And this agreement says that this agreement becomes effective from the date of its signature and will be in force for 30 years, and then automatically continues for the next five years. Oh, my God! But save yourself from such friends, and we will get away from our enemies. So, dear friends, I would like to point out that article 9 of Part 2 of the Constitution of Ukraine provides that the conclusion of international treaties that conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine is possible only after making appropriate changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. Make changes, then do what you want. We're not going to let you make that change. In particular, the Constitution provides that the earth is the basic national wealth under the special protection of the State. This is article 14. And so distinguished national MPs, I have proved you unconstitutional. Now we're looking at the schemes that we're looking at tossing property. In all cases, the same things are the same: corporateization, stockpiling, stock exchange on a bubble hole, the promise that the shareholder has a oil or gas well somewhere; plus part of the shares through the labour force's right to ransom are taken by foreign offshore firms, which in many cases look like managers of these companies. Thus, because of a deliberate disregard for the State’s obligations to protect its interests, the enterprise becomes a bankruptcy, and it becomes the property of another state. Clearly, taking into account the actions of the Russian Federation in Georgia, the statement made by the head of the RAO, the EU, the Anatolia Chubais TSP, this country, through its structures, wants to take control and become the owner of Ukrainian energy. In 1995, we were already trying to extend through the Supreme Council the Gaztransite project and transfer our gas storage tanks to the Russian Federation. Then it didn't work out. And today it won't go away! Why is this being done? To become a full participant in the EU gas transport market? Yes. But Rourgas, Gazprom don't want to put their own highways and ancestry into the future consortium, and Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan aren't at all, even though their carbon deposits have already taken an interest in all the countries of the world. They want to take our highways, which means the "government" position of our government officials, will lead to the very quick departure of all these highways from the property of Ukraine. [[in quotes]] According to our Cabinet of Ministers, the statutory society fund, which will implement the consortium's idea, is $1 million. This sum is less than the cost of meals that are spent on these meetings. Can we manage these systems ourselves and receive income from transportation and income? Yes. If we're an independent state. I call for these agreements to be ratified by Parliament and failed. And I'd like it never to be run by Ukraine, and it's managed by a large portion, which is estimated at between $30 billion and $40 billion, that's the beginning of the management of Ukraine. Why, then, would we want a government? That's why I urge you, Your Honor, you're government officials! - Save your face, save the Constitution, save Ukraine for your offspring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u157	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. Next Volodymyr Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u158	Dear colleagues. The Communist faction suggests that it is important to consider a framework agreement for the formation of a consortium. And when we look at ratification in the Supreme Council, and when we make decisions, it comes first of all that the Supreme Council should put under control the formation of this consortium and a specific implementation programme. That's what we're getting out of. First of all, the faction is that it doesn't want our gas transport system to meet the share of the Odessa-Broda pipeline. There was a lot of talk, money buried large, washed very much and in their own pocket. And the pipeline rots and rots in such a policy. Secondly, we are of the opinion that it is necessary to determine that the Government of Ukraine has proved unable to operate in a reliable and efficient manner a gas transport system that ensures the energy security of the state. Thirdly, we can argue about the consortium. But it must also be recognized that, in 12 years of independence in Ukraine, there is no real energy policy, no clear idea of where energy sector segments are more appropriate to maintain a state monopoly and where to implement a market regulation mechanism. Whether it touches the coal sector or energy or the oil and gas complex. What warnings there are. The Communist faction believes that the sale of hammers at the cost of energy complexes is another confirmation of the bankruptcy of politics and the destruction of energy, economic and political independence. This conclusion confirms the privatisation of Oblenergo. Not only is there a threat to energy security, but primarily national security is that by satisfying the ever-increasing appetites of insatiable oligarchs, so-called effective owners, the government and the President have gone to privatize Ukrainian strategic enterprises, which is a real threat to our security. Various foreign experts estimate that the cost of the gas transport system is $28.7 billion. It's a powerful complex of ours. It was on Ukraine’s gas transport system that billions of shares of the shadow economy were used in a short time. Some have been sent to “a different world, ” others have been held in prisons abroad, and others have been promoted as we see the final assignments. In our view, in creating an international consortium of governance and development of this system, we should not allow the formation of an obfuscated form of sliding privatization of one of the most important strategic objects. This is the first time. It's different. Through the creation of a consortium, its foreign participants will be able to control Ukraine's gas supply system, which means controlling virtually all industry, utilities, fuel and energy complexes. This is also a problem that needs to be considered very carefully. Third. Ukraine’s state budget may lose its stable revenues from transporting gas. Clearly, we have questions about how the richest public company could have happened to be an evil debtor in front of the government budget. Who will cancel this debt when NAC is transformed into a consortium? Who will invest in the restoration of the core funds? According to expert estimates, about 60 percent of the pipelines have already worked out their amortization resources, and in large areas, the volume of pipes has decreased by 60 percent, making the pipeline potentially dangerous in operation. What we offer, Communists. First. Establish a moratorium on sales, privatization, corporateization, lease or concession and other changes in the form of state-owned gas-, oil-, ammonia transport systems in Ukraine until 2015. The project has been introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council. The other one. In the first half of 2004, the government developed a programme for the restructuring, modernization and non-accidental operation of Ukraine’s gas transport system until 2015. And the third. Last one. Taking into account the huge five-billion dollar in NAC Naftogaz Ukraine's debts in front of the budget of the Ukrainian Chamber of Auditors, the Audit and Audit Office conducts a comprehensive audit of the financial and economic performance of NAC Naftogaz, Ukraine. And a faction of Communists is asking to take these proposals into account in the Supreme Council's draft ruling on this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u159	Vladimir Puzakov, next Mikola Rudzkowski
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u160	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. The Ukrainian gas transport system is a strategic sector of the country's economy. About 90 per cent of Russian natural gas is transported to Europe through Ukrainian pipelines. For transit of Russian gas, Ukraine receives between 25 and 30 billion cubic metres of blue fuel annually. If we convert this into a monetary equivalent, we get $2-2.5 billion or 12.5 billion dollars of bracelets. This represents 25-30 per cent of the income of the current Ukrainian budget. This does not mean, however, that this money does indeed supplement the country's State budget. The Ukrainian gas pipeline provides a budget of not more than 2.5 billion grevens, representing only about 20 per cent of the gas transit fee. About the same goes for maintenance of the gas transport system, and where does the rest of the money go, i.e. 7 billion bracelets? Today, unfortunately, this question cannot be answered even by the highest economic control authority, the Court of Auditors of Ukraine. The question is why keep and pay a large amount of budget to the army of the artists of the organization. For many mortals, it is clear that this money cannot evaporate indefinitely and the Ukrainian Court of Auditors is obviously simply afraid to say that they are probably sitting in Ukraine's oil and gas pipeline structures near the President. In fact, so far, this luxurious trough has been fed to and fed to the President of Ukraine of the oligarchy. Russian Gazprom and European gas companies are now receiving their share of the Ukrainian gas transport system. The signed joint statement on Ukraine's cooperation with Russia of the gas industry essentially means the Ukrainian authorities'willingness to admit Russian and European capital to the Ukrainian gas transport corridor. The arguments by which the Ukrainian authorities justify this idea of creating a consortium are well known. The main one is the possible construction of Gazprom Russia and its European partners of the alternative pipeline, although if Ukraine is incontrovertent, Gazprom and its Western partners will release a new pipeline across Ukraine and then Ukraine will remain with nothing. So these conversations cannot be taken for granted as pure water political acceptance. In this case, the anti-national regime is a major economic victim, with the expectation of political support for the European bourgeoisie. With regard to the loss of part of its profits, the current interest rate regime compensates workers for their economic loss in the fight for control of the Ukrainian gas pipe. And we can be sure of that, since we are living witnesses to it. For example, today, on 11 November, many regions of Ukraine, with both physical and physical strength, are frozen in apartments for lack of gas in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u161	Mikola Rudzkowski, next one is Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u162	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. With the strategic goal of taking the gas transport system into the former Soviet Union under its control, the President and the Government of the Russian Federation are taking steps to achieve their goal. This is confirmed by a recent statement made by the President of the Russian Federation. Using the political weakening of Leonid Kuchma, Vladimir Putin obtained from Ukraine the signing of the October 7th agreement in Chisinau on strategic cooperation in the gas field with regard to the creation of a consortium. We, a group of Ukrainian national deputies, have submitted an appropriate submission to the Constitutional Court and have already made an open reference to this issue regarding the non-compliance of the treaty with the current legislation and the invalidity of the signed agreement. As a member of the working group, the government’s energy block made a positive impression on me. And I think that the government is acting consistently and correctly in a direction that is not in line with the proposals proposed by the Government of the Russian Federation for the creation of a consortium based on Ukrainian gas transport networks, and is looking for other options, which, by the way, is insisted by the Ukrainian President's Administration. And I don't rule out any other options in the near future as personnel decisions, because the task assigned by the Ukrainian President's Administration is to resolve the issue of the transfer of a gas pipeline under the control of the Russian Federation. I'm not going to develop this direction anymore, and I want to concentrate and offer you, the national MPs, a few suggestions for a Supreme Council ruling that I think should come in. First. Do not consider creating a consortium based on existing gas transport networks. The other one. Force the government to enter into long - term gas transport agreements through Ukraine with the contracting party before the opening of negotiations on the establishment of a gas transport consortium. Third. Prohibit consideration of the option of a gas transport concession in Ukraine, which is contrary to Ukraine’s national interests, image and independence. Four. Recommendation to refrain from building a new pipeline wire without being involved in it at the full start of Asian gas suppliers, European gas importers and consortiums throughout the Russian Federation from the border of Kazakhstan and across Ukraine. Such a consortium will enable Ukraine to gain real energy independence and effectively increase gas supply through Ukraine to Europe from alternative sources. European nations will also be interested in this. I believe that under such conditions the position of the government can be maintained. But once again, there is no way to prevent anyone from getting into existing transport networks. This is the independence and security of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u163	Please, Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, the key issue of creating a consortium is to fit national interests and address energy security issues in Ukraine, the main criterion for assessing all government actions on this issue. By the way, during the crisis around Tuzla, the President of Ukraine rightly stated the need to address the energy supply issue of Ukraine from the Central Asian region. The government also rightly asks questions about finding alternative sources. I think we need to support the government. We need to support the government in the sense that it opposes the transfer of Ukraine's gas transport network into concession. These, in my view, are the right actions of the government. But they are not enough, and we need them, really. think about the perspective and think about the so-called model of gas cooperation between Ukraine and Russia and other countries. This question exists, it's a really important question. And we can't decide anything here, I support Deputy Gudima, that would be the worst way to react if we didn't decide anything. In this regard, we are obliged to consider Russia’s position, a position of aggressive imperialism. Putin claimed that gas transport networks were a product of the former Soviet Union and he said only Russia was capable of order there. So Russia is essentially asking about the transfer of the strategic oil and gas network of Ukraine. This is a totally unacceptable question for us. In front of me is Deputy Rudzkowski, who said that I also fully agree. At the same time, Putin claimed that he would not allow anyone to access the Russian oil - gas network. If the question were really about what it would be like to be something like this, a common, a common and cooperation throughout the entire space of the Soviet Union of the former, well, excluding the Baltic or other republics. It was one question, and so he's practically asking questions about our network, Ukrainian, and he's talking about it! What should we do about it? Do not lose control of Ukraine’s gas transport system. Indeed, losing that kind of control will mean virtually losing energy and economic, and in some way political independence. And don't hand it over! If we transfer it to ownership, we lose control. And in this regard, I think it's a possible last resort. This is 51 percent of shares held by the Ukrainian State, 49 percent privatized and divided between producers and consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u165	Michael Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u166	Thank you. The government's venerable remains, there are no journalists, and there are no national MPs. But I'm mostly talking to voters. I want to draw attention to the fact that we are repeating Russia's ways. In Russia, when Yeltsin took over something at night, he'll get up in the morning, he'll say something, and now he's starting a piece, and scientists are proving what's genius. But now it turns out that's not what it is. And that's what we have. As the first official suggests, something is wrong. He suggested that the Chernobyl nuclear station should be closed for the first time. I'm losing. I offered a consortium. Now we don't know how to get out of this situation. And the consortium is one of the losers. I'll call you, I've been counting. Losses to the budget under the terms of this framework contract are direct losses of 120 billion dollars. So what kind of medicine can you talk about? It'll lose everything. And given that we're still going to lose jobs in the pipeline industry and the furniture and stuff, it's going to be 200 billion dollars. That's a loss! And why, look at how we write, "In the market, everyone has to stand up for their own interests." And we stand for someone else's interests: the European Union, Russia. Is there no Ukraine here?Oh, my God! We must, no one will stand for them, we must defend the interests of Ukraine! So it's not just a pipe, it's a concession, it's another 100,000 acres of land. Look at this: An ass of 30 acres [30 ha], 100 million bracelets, and a nation of people united. Is it really a pipe that costs a period of 30 years or two, 200 billion dollars, 100 hectares of land that will not unite the Ukrainian people?Oh, my God! We understand that those who offered it are temporary people. They are gone, and we must be on earth forever. That is why we need to get rid of this idea, and it is necessary for the government to act courageously: How long is there left of the one on whom you depend? We must act in the interests of the state. Moreover, an alternative source of gas needs to be created immediately. Then Russia will behave normally, because there will be an alternative, and Europe will support it. Or we're going to get into these lenses. Russia gives us one gas well? No, it's not. It's taking everything! So, ladies and gentlemen, this shows that Ukraine cannot be recognized as a market economy country today, because everyone in the market thinks about their interests and we give them up. So it's also a government guarantee that we can't leave now, because we can't stand up for national interests. So, Your Honor, I want to say to the government. What is it that you're misleading that we can't serve? 80 percent of the project, research and research institutes of the former Union in the gas pipeline sector are in Ukraine. We can do everything on our own. I'll tell you all about it by technology. You just have to want to do it and stand up for yourself. And in order to support it, we need 25 percent of what this pipe is doing today. For we will not look patriotically at our trumpet, so the State, as Julia Timoshenko wrote in one article, will be the trumpet. Thank you for your attention. And that's why we need to act in the interests of the state and not support the President's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u167	Alexander Borzih, last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u168	Dear national MPs, members of the government! The position of the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party on the development of the Ukrainian gas transport system has always been constructive. We come from the fact that all the government's efforts to create conditions to improve the efficiency of this sector should definitely have been supported. True, the model proposed today for the concept of an international consortium for the administration and development of Ukraine’s gas transport system generates different assessments by national deputies, individual executive heads. That is why the concept itself, and the forecast economic consequences for Ukraine, from introducing new approaches to the administration and development of the gas transport system require serious further study. At the same time, we agrarians feel that all issues must be considered with regard to the interests of the village. It's not necessary to remind once again of the critical state of the village's social sphere. Among these problems is the problem of providing heat to rural people. Today, only 29 percent of rural areas are gassed. In addition, after GRES in the gas pipeline, the gas pressure decreases to such a level that it becomes virtually impossible to use for household use. So the peasants here need substantial government assistance. Unfortunately, in recent years, both social and gasification investments in the village are virtually non-existent. This does not allow the construction of even the beginning of gas networks to be completed. If an agreed decision is to create a consortium and ensure the further development of the Ukrainian government’s gas pipeline system, it is necessary to realize that almost all gas transport networks are built by private farmers. The expansion will raise the issue of new sewers for the construction of compressors, gas distribution stations, underground gas depots, and other technological facilities. In the security zones of gas transport systems for agricultural producers, restrictions are placed on the construction of agricultural products and on the construction of production facilities. It is clear that the farms are suffering damage from roads, power lines, and oil pipelines built on agricultural land. Nowhere in the world is it possible for the land used for the stated or other purposes to be paid. Under these conditions, peasants have the right to demand in the state, as well as in other structures that are involved in the construction and maintenance of gas transport systems, in the payment of costs and in the use of such land for rent or in the way of redemption. I mean, private lands have to be paid. And this should be clearly foreseen in the concept that will work. The Agrarian Party of Ukraine draws the attention of members of the inter-ministerial working group to the proposal of farmers when working on the concept of further development of the Ukrainian gas transport system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u169	Thank you. a closing word from the government who? Vitaly Anatolyovich Hayduk, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u170	Dear National Deputies! Thank you for addressing this issue today, hoping for more activity, but I'd like to go somewhere in preparation for the decision of the Supreme Council, so let's just go back to the material that the government sent you, because today we're having a conversation with the deadline a year ago. The conversation we're talking about. The question that is being considered today and the emphasis that there is is a situation that we had a year ago. We are in a very different position. It's not the kind of money our networks are talking about there today. The point is that by 2013, to increase gas transport by 30 billion, we've determined where the source of that gas is going to come from. And in order to prepare our network, to be able to transport it, we need to build a separate new network that starts with Alexander's Hay, this is the reverend Nicholas Mikolaiovich saying that this is in Kazakhstan, Alexander Guy's station compressor to Novopskov, to Uzhgrad, Novopskov-Uzhgrad. This network is already running. And only on the basis of a new construction will there be a so-called gas consortium, but a consortium is a conditional name to make. It doesn't mean that the organizational form of this enterprise is going to be in the form of a consortium or it's going to be a stockholder society that's going to be open there and so on. As for the issues of the agreement, there are different approaches, there is constitutionality, there is unconstitutionality. I think that when we get a decision from the Constitutional Court, then it will be determined what we have to do, to ratify. But according to the lawyers of the Ministry of Justice, what's not necessary is the lawyers of the Cabinet of Ministers, who don't need ratification. There will be a conclusion of the Constitutional Court, we will act in accordance with the conclusions, and we will have no problems. We have to give ourselves one to establish that we are, in terms of the gas sector, a transit state. Our task, with a gas transport network, is to provide both gas manufacturers and consumers with the most comfortable services to keep this network loaded and to think about how to do it. We can't just get out of the state we were in yesterday or the day before, or today, we have to consider what the question of energy security of any country, it will always be question number one. And that's why we need to integrate ourselves into a situation that would allow consumer countries and consumers to get an information base on our ability and safety of this transport. That is what we should be able to make sure that Ukraine’s gas transport network is capable of providing not only today but also in the future what we are taking. Since the gas industry, you know that the discussion is about. contracts, but the gas market is within 25-year contracts. Because if you don't have that level, you can't immediately build the corresponding transport networks that would provide if you have a smaller level. There's a market. The gas that's there is 10-15 percent, but it's all 25-30 years long-term contracts that make it possible to be more confident. And in general, I think that the broad circle and the political forces that participated in the discussion testify to that, and the estimates that were placed, that what we are doing today, where we are, we are on the right track. The same is true of concessions. We've got all the conclusions of all experts today, both from the Russian side and the Ukrainian side, on two models, we have negative conclusions about the possibility of managing or the possibility of operating functions. Because it's not possible to separate the gas transport network from the bus. the distribution of the transport network, there are many functions. We also have a negative conclusion from today's legislative framework on the possibility of a gas pipeline concession. But in order to be sure, we agreed that by December 1st, we would be able to make experts fit not only as a negative fact, but rather as a change in the fact that we need to have, or perhaps in the future, a concession, considering that we need to go through changes in the relevant legislative acts directly in Parliament. In general, I would like to thank the distinguished national deputies, the honourable colleagues, for this work. And I would ask you not to ask questions about terms, because when TEO is prepared, a calendar plan will be redesigned accordingly, where the corresponding terms will be developed. Since this is not an easy question, let me tell you, I am grateful to all scientific institutions and Ukraine, and also to the Russian Federation. For the first time, maybe a few or ten years, well, in ten years, we can say that we have a state or state analysis not only of the Ukrainian gas transport network but also of the Russian gas transport network. So we have a clear procedure that experts can talk about, so to speak, not in general, what to say is that your system is bad, but our best, where everything is written. Construction deadlines, the state of today’s networks, the state of compressor stations, the level of wear, where replacement is needed not only in Ukraine but also in Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-11-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, today we have discussed very important issues on Government Day. This is true of both the cultural heritage and health care and the gas transportation system of our nation. Let us hope that today’s hearings will give us additional impetus to solving the questions that have been identified. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. This week, MPs are working on committees, factions, and groups. The next plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine begins at 10 a.m. on November 18. Good-bye.
