ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:53]] Registered -402 402 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. Dear colleagues, I have walked away from the life of two times the Hero of the Soviet Union, Lieutenant General Petrov Vasil Stepanovich, who was a courageous man and a truly legendary personality. On April 14th, Love Trochymovna Mala, an outstanding doctor and scientist, director of the Institute of Medical Sciences of the Academy of Medicine of Ukraine, the Academy of National Sciences of Ukraine and the Russian Academy of Medical Sciences. The hero of Ukraine, the Hero of Social Work, is one of the founders of the Ukrainian Cardiology School. Please honor her memory with a moment of silence. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, life lasts, today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputy Abramenko Vladimir Fedorovich, let's welcome him, wish him all the best. Dear colleagues! In accordance with Friday’s Rules, we discuss the order of the day, and you have a list of issues to consider. The rules do not provide for the consideration of parliamentary requests today, but if you agree, requests could be made. If there's no objection? Please, Melniczuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u2	Mikhailo Melniczuk. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear Hennady Andriyovich, there are no comments about the announcement of requests on Wednesday, so to speak, but on Wednesday the chairman did not allow the MPs to address the motions, motivated by the fact that only 30 minutes and beyond. Today, there is no room for written requests from deputies and oral statements from those who sign up for these statements. Please, how do I count this? If we're going in the daytime, we're going in the daytime. If you ask, give the opportunity to address the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u3	All right, there's no denying it. Thus, we follow the Rules. Please, just one minute, according to the Rules. With regard to parliamentary inquiries, appeals, announcements, and so forth. Yes, indeed. There should be no questions under the Rules today. As far as the MPs' statements are concerned, we're going to have a 13-hour shift to "Rizzna." You can talk about it, you can write it down, and you can announce it. But, if you ask, let's put it to a vote, please, or should we call in? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE Yes, advertise, advertise.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u4	I'll put it to the vote. Here we go. We're following the Rules. [[10:07:32]] For 218. Today's our day. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's not a procedure, it's a question of at-hok, it's accepted, because you and I are leaving the Rules. So let's define ourselves. You and I are wasting our time. If we act by law, by the Rules, let us be determined. Moroz Alexander Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u5	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, you know there was a parliamentary breakdown yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u6	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u7	There are reasons for this and we need to get into a normal situation. And there's 40 minutes or so on the application, that's actually even a procedural question, you don't need 226 votes. So either put it to a vote, or just let people speak and ask for votes, because there will be no sessions for two weeks and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u8	Alexander Aleksandrovich, you probably know me better than anyone else. And if we have to make a decision and move away from the Rules, we need 226 votes, ad hoc procedure. If you insist on voting again, that's fine. Oh, right. All right, let's put it to a vote. Turn the system on. But we have to decide with you. Are you and I moving away from the Rules and voting for questions or statements by deputies? Just ask questions, okay. Let's put it to a vote. [[10:09:40]] For 289 Decision taken. Requests were made by Ukrainian national deputies Andrija Polit and Igor Alekseyev to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, regarding a grave violation of the Ukrainian Law on the status of the Ukrainian national deputy as head of the Malovsky district council of the Kirovograd region. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:10:27]] For 178. Decision taken. Igor Yukhnovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the joint order of a number of ministries and authorities of Russia for the mandatory issuance of migration maps when entering and staying in the territory of Russia of Ukrainian citizens. Vote. [[10:11:00]] For-143 Decision taken. Mikola Tomenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the application of the National Television Company of Ukraine to censorship in a presentation by the President of Ukraine with an annual message to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Puts the vote to the vote. [[10:11:34]] For-188. Decision taken. Maria Markusz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the financing of the completion of the construction of the Tečevlja-Vedevlja-Teresva gas pipeline and Vedevla-Solotvino. I'll bet you a vote. 0: 12:06 For 169 Decision taken. Valentina Savitsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on formal replies to parliamentary requests announced at meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on some socio-economic issues. Vote. [[10:12:35]] For-174 Decision taken. Maria Marcus to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the facts of land violations during the reform of farms in the Red Cross region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:13:05]] For-138 Decision taken. Paul Kachura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unlawful restriction of the government's decision on the extent of compensation to rehabilitated citizens and the imposition of this order in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:13:40]] For-149 Decision taken. Anatolia Átovajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to implement the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the illegality of the abolition of benefits for veterans of power structures. Vote. [[10:14:09]] For the 110. Decision taken. Valerie Samowoski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the anti-dumping measures on imports from the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus of matches. Vote. [[10:14:40]] For 122 Decision taken. Mikoli Krutz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of a technical committee in the city of Ivano-Frankivsk from the standardization of gas counters. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:15:07]] For 118 Decision taken. Sergia Ivanova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of the Azov liquor plant of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Vote. [[10:15:34]] For-24 The decision is not taken. Zarai Katusheva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the repayment of compensation payments to participants in the liquidation of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:16:03]] For-157. Decision taken. Petra Olijnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the liquidation of the Red Cross Centre for Standardization, Metrology and Certification. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:16:30.]] For-125 Decision taken. Georgia Manchulenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of a tourist recreation complex in the constituency 203, the Chernivite region. Vote. [[10:17:00]] For-127 Decision taken. Igora Tarasyuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the elimination of the effects of natural phenomena in the Ternopil region in 2002. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:17:28]] For 168 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Coordinating Committee to Combat Corruption and Organized Crime at the President of Ukraine for the creation of a government commission to verify the destruction of the sanatorium complex on the Black Sea coast of illegal removal of recreational land and transfer to individual officials and citizens. Please vote. [[10:18:15]] For 219 Decision taken. Tarasa Crnowila to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to confirm or correct the text of an order from the Cabinet of Ministers for the purchase of two cars worth 509,000 dollars each. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:18:48]] For 199 Decision taken. Jurija Pavlenko and Petra Toloczka - to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the audit of the financial and economic activities of the state postal company “Krošta”. Please make up your mind. [[10:19:22]] For-157. Decision taken. Groups of deputies of Slabenko and others to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine on violations of Ukrainian legislation on the budget of the Ukrainian system and over-authorisation of acts of order of the Lutsky city head. Please make up your mind. [[10:19:55]] For 114 Decision taken. Vladimir Oneichuka - to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the clarification of certain provisions of Ukraine's legislation on financial services. Please make up your mind. [[10:20:21]] For-129 Decision taken. Vladimir Leschchenka to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, on the collection of disability insurance due to industrial injury. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:20:52]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Sergija Slabenka to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, John Kirilenko, on the violation of the rights of land landlords and the Ivantsiv region of Volin region. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:21:20]] For 132 Decision taken. Andrew School to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the re-examination of the circumstances of the illegal movement of the Consulate General of the Russian Federation in Lviv. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:21:47]] For-127 Decision taken. Valentina Seminouk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of information on violations of the Ukrainian Property Privatization Act in the agribusiness complex. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:22:14]] For 168 Decision taken. Vladimir Chandra and Paul Ignatenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of legislation in the activities of the National Energy Share Company Energoate. Vote. [[10:22:41]] For-126 Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the payment of wages to the employees of the Macarov sugar plant in the Hmelni district and the illegal alienation of the property of the company. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:23:10]] For 175 Decision taken. Peter Simonenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with the violation by the Prosecutor of the Autonomous Republic of the Crimea of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in the matter of the powers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:23:42]] For 118 Decision taken. Vasil Onopenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations by officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the city of Harkov of the constitutional principles of the functioning of the judiciary, the status of judges and the exercise of justice. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:24:10]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Eugene Kirilchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the delay in the enforcement of the law enforcement agencies of Volina was taken over by the Supreme Court of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:24:38]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Jury Solomatin to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with the dissatisfaction with the activities of the Kyiv’s Public Prosecutor’s Office on the sale of the construction site “Citizen Center”. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:25:09]] For-143 Decision taken. Valentina Matvieva and Alla Alexandrovsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the update of the constitutional rights of citizen John Motika. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:25:40]] For 131 Decision taken. Zarai Katusheva to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with his dissatisfaction with the response to the breach of a contract for the joint construction of a residence. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:26:11]] For-129 Decision taken. Vladimir Drachevsky to the Ukrainian Minister of Health regarding the placement of a child’s dental clinic in the city of Nicopol. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:26:37]] For-100 Decision taken. Mikoli Shershun to the Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine regarding the use of the production capacity of the Starite plant of bridge technological structures included in the list of enterprises of strategic importance to the economy and security of the state. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:27:23]] For 190 Decision taken. Once again, Eugene Kirilczuk is proposed to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the delay in the execution of the execution of the Supreme Court of Ukraine by the law enforcement authorities of Volina. The decisions of any court must be carried out. [[10:27:50]] For 177 Decision taken. Mikli Sokirka to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine for the renewal of the electric train on the Žmerinka Popeluhi route. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:28:20]] For 109 Decision taken. Oleg Gumenyuk to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine regarding the quality of the preparation of motor vehicles. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:28:45]] For-92 Decision taken. Victor Musiyaki to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the redeployment of the military from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to the city of Kyrovgrad. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:29:10]] For 135 Decision taken. Eugene Hoornik to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the provision of medical equipment at the Volin district hospital of Ivano-Frankow district. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:29:44]] For 178. Decision taken. Viktor Slavati to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine regarding the negative attitude of railway teams towards the decision to privatise railway undertakings. Please vote. [[10:30:09]] For-125 Decision taken. Sergey Gmiri to Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine for debt in front of the miners of the restructured "Krasnopoliowska" mine in Lugansk region. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:30:39]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Vladimir Lechchenko to the Minister for Emergency Affairs and Protection of the Population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster for the construction of the Novgorod North High School in the Chernigiv region. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:31:12]] For-149 Decision taken. Andrija Polita and Igor Alexieva are headed by the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the facts of the official abuse of the head of the Cerka territorial commission on securities and the stock market. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:31:44]] For 121 Decision taken. Jury Pavlovnka and Oleg Yuhnovsky to the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the actions of the State Commission and its state-owned enterprise Krašta aimed at narrowing the information space of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:32:16]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Sergey Pravdenka to the head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service for failure to execute the Chopper Customs rulings of the Uzhgrad District District Court concerning the Eurokar Society. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:32:46]] For-16 The decision is not taken. Michael Dobkin to the Head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service for the violation by officials of regional customs officials of the requirements of applicable legislation. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:33:12]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Valentina Seminyuk to the head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine regarding the full payment of taxes to enterprises transferred to the field of state administration. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:33:42]] For 148 Decision taken. Mikoli Krouta to the head of the State Committee for the Protection of the State Border of Ukraine for monitoring the presence of an insurance certificate for owners of vehicles registered in Ukraine when they leave abroad. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:34:16]] For 115 Decision taken. Jaroslav Jojik is head of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio talk about the need to remove immoral and unconscionable advertising from television screens. Please vote. [[10:34:48]] For 193 Decision taken. Victor Taran to the head of Kiev City State Administration for the preservation and protection of the historic sites of Kiev. Please make up your mind. [[10:35:16]] For the 180. Decision taken. Jury Karmazin is headed by the Coordinating Committee to Combat Corruption Organized Crime with the President of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the verification of abuses by the heads of the Kirovograd District Authority. Please make up your mind. [[10:35:48]] For 215 Decision taken. Lilia Grigorovich, to the Human Rights Council of the United States of America for the purpose of overseeing the deployment of citizens of Fedotenko and Humicko to the Kyiv Court of Appeal. Please make up your mind. [[10:36:20]] For the 180. Decision taken. Alexander Turchinova, head of the Suma District State Administration for free travel in the suburban transport of persons with disabilities by sight. Please make up your mind. [[10:36:51]] For-125 Decision taken. Mikhail’s volunteer to the prosecutor of Kyiv Haisinski’s city regarding the observance of labour law and financial discipline. I'd like to make a statement. It's probably not the city of Kiev, probably the prosecutor of the Kyiv district, it's a mistake. [[10:37:25]] For 128 Decision taken. Vasil Kalinczuk is head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the legality of privatization of food markets in Kiev. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:37:57]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Georgia Manchulenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the DPA Ukraine, Head of the Montenegrin District State Administration on the failure to execute the decision of the court and the inaction of the State Executive Service of the Global Paradise Administration of Justice of the Montenegrin Region and the State Tax Inspectorate in the Glucian region of the Montenegrin Region concerning disability and the group of Mankish. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:38:45]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Parliamentary request from National Deputy Vasile Redonia and others to the Minister of Education of Ukraine for an attempt to unlawfully eliminate vocational and technical school number 28 in the city of Ostróz Ravniskie district, please identify yourself. [[10:39:23]] For 172 Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the development of a mechanism for the payment of cash savings invested until 2 January in institutions of the former savings bank operating in Ukraine in connection with the marked reduction of savings branches in the rural area of the Hmeljna region. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:40:03]] For-142 Decision taken. I called him by his name when I announced a parliamentary request, and the heads of the Security Service of Ukraine signed by Vasil Kalinczuk, Mikola Rudzkovsky, the third name I cannot understand. As regards the legality of the privatization of food markets in Kiev Let's put it to the vote again, please. [[10:40:52]] For-127 Decision taken. National Deputy Kostinuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the actions of the head of the Suman district administration of Sztrban. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:42:03]] For 133 Decision taken. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. The first one on the schedule is the annual report of the authorized one. Dear Stephen Ilkovic asks questions about his request -- to ask the Attorney General to hold me responsible for releasing the head of the committee's secretariat from office in the fight against organized crime and corruption. I want to report that we voted on this issue on Wednesday. It didn't pass. Moreover, please listen, please listen to what is stated in the Rules, and only those matters and the body competent to deal with the matter will be put to the vote. As far as your question is concerned, it's being tried in court right now. Stepan Cloud's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u9	The cloud, the Julia Timoshenko faction, the Motherland Party. Ladies and gentlemen, on Wednesday, the distinguished Gennady Andriyovich misrepresented the name of my MP's request, so I don't think he's got the right number of votes. And Hennady Andriyovich, I ask you not to comment, but to read the correct title on the request and put it to the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u10	Stephen Ilkovich, do we really yearn for the rule of law? Now the matter is being considered in court, and you're pushing through me, through the Attorney General to the court to decide that question. Is that what you can do? Can you do that? I say again, read the Rules, it's all set. Come, please, and I'll give you the conclusion of the judiciary. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. On the first schedule, the annual report of the authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights. The authorized person requests 30 minutes and 15 minutes to be answered for publication. Please. Nina Ivanovna Karpachov is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u11	There will be time for the deputies to be determined by the approval of the candidates. By the way, in secret, by secret balloting, not in the hall, but in the cabins. Honorable national MPs, your Honourable Head, distinguished representatives of the judiciary, distinguished diplomats, representatives of the media, all present, dear compatriots? The beginning of the new millennium has shown that the world has not become more humane or more secure, for as ever, massive human rights violations take on ever more violent forms in all parts of the earth. Human life itself is crumbling, international communication is becoming more and more double standards, and the role of the United Nations as a universal international organization called for the promotion of human rights throughout the world is being undermined. This requires all of us to rethink approaches to human rights, taking into account the realities of today and the new challenges of time, such as globalization, terrorism, the deepening of social dispersion around the world, the devastating environmental consequences of man's thoughtless intervention in natural processes. Five years ago, when the Human Rights Commissioner just started her job, there was no clear idea of the real human rights situation in our country. The Commissioner conducted the first comprehensive study, a monitoring complex study that gave an honest and objective answer to questions about the state of respect for and protection of human rights in Ukraine. This monitoring study was presented to your predecessors, the distinguished national MPs. Today you are presented with a new survey of the state of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. Unfortunately, as Commissioner, I now have to say that the observance of human rights in Ukraine is still far from international standards. During the activities of the Human Rights Commissioner, over 270,000 citizens of Ukraine, foreigners, and stateless persons addressed me in the defense of their rights. If the first years of work to an authorized person were approached by a large majority of persons with disabilities, pensioners, unemployed persons, those deprived of their will, they are now increasingly seeking the protection of their rights as journalists, law enforcement officials, particularly investigators, judges, and civil servants. There are, by the way, cases of the people's own defenses of violation of their rights. When examining the most problematic issues in the field of human rights with which citizens refer to the Authorized One, this should be noted. 50 percent of all appeals relate to violations of public rights and, above all, to the right to judicial protection. 40 percent of the appeals relate to violations of social and economic rights, especially the right to work, the right to pay for it, the deprivation of benefits, the granting of housing, pensions, and the violation of ownership of land. Compared to 1998, the number of petitions for personal constitutional rights of citizens has tripled, especially in respect of violations of the right to respect for dignity, honor, unlawful methods of investigation, torture, and other inhumane treatment or punishment. Dear national electorates, through the heart of the Authorized Human Rights Commissioner, are suffering the pain of our citizens who, without basic means of existence, report the facts of a massive and brutal violation of their constitutional right to an adequate and life-saving standard. Despite some positive economic growth trends over the past three years, the standard of living of most Ukrainian citizens has not improved or even worsened. The official unemployment rate in Ukraine has only increased from 26 percent to 28 percent in the last three years. In many parts of Ukraine, especially the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, in Zakarpatski, Hmelnicki, Herson, Mikolayivski, Volinsky, Luhansk, and the unemployment rate ranges from 33 to 46 percent. And given the objective estimates of Ukraine’s own population, some sociological data, nearly 70 percent of Ukraine’s citizens today are poor. According to the U.S. State Department, debt from salary on January 1, 2002, amounted to 2 billion 323 million dollars. The number of workers who were not paid their wages at the time was 2 million 155 thousand. This is a destabilizing factor that increases social tension in society. Mass violations of the right to work in connection with illegal release have taken place. Employers try to get rid of the least socially vulnerable workers, such as disabled persons, many children, and single mothers, especially before the retirement age of citizens, pensioners. The average pension in Ukraine last year was 137 dollars, or 40 percent of the living minimum. The problem of unemployment remains awe - inspiring. This has been discussed many times in this room. The unemployed in Ukraine are now estimated by the International Labour Organization at almost 2.5 million people, the vast majority being women and young people under 28 years of age. It is difficult to see social benefits, particularly for families with children, disabled children, disabled children and low-income families, for whom it is not the only source of survival. Dear National Deputies! The big problem is housing in Ukraine. I'm only going to touch one aspect of this problem. According to the Ukrainian Commissioner, more than 1.5 million Ukrainian citizens live in hostels. And to this day their right to housing has been threatened. What does that mean? In fact, these people are evicted from the hostels, and the hostels often become the prey of commercial structures or private individuals who use them completely beyond their purpose. Therefore, according to the Authorized, the need for changes and additions to the privatization of the State Housing Fund, which would provide for the reconstruction of hostels for small families, for them to be privatized, as is done in Kiev, for example. A painful problem for millions of Ukrainian citizens remains the return of their labour savings in the institutions of the former USSR and Ukredjstrakh. Only in the first two years of activity did more than 12,000 citizens of our nation turn to the Commissioner for Human Rights. On the basis of these references, the Authorized Court appealed to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, and the Constitutional Court supported the submission of the Commissioner and acknowledged: first, the saving of Ukrainian citizens by their property, and gave hope to millions of our fellow countrymen, at last, for the return of their labour savings. But this question remains painful, these payments have begun, but we know how these payments are today, and I think the MPs might be asking me this very painful question. The issue of land ownership. Ensuring this right has always been one of the most difficult issues. According to valid legislation, ownership of land is guaranteed to almost 24 million landowners and those who use it. However, an analysis of citizens’ appeals to the Authorized One showed that not all owners, many of whom were simply not included in the list of State Act Supplements to Collective Property Rights, according to which peasants were granted land, and some land was given within 15 kilometers of the village, as was the case in the village of Pavlovka of the Bogoduchov district of Kharkiv district with the citizen of Covetun, and needed intervention by the Commissioner of Human Rights in order to restore the rights of this village. The authorized person believes that a unified system of registration of land ownership and other immovable property should be established in Ukraine. At the legislative level it is necessary to put obstacles that would make it impossible to deceive peasants and buy their land for nothing, especially since nearly a third of the villages in Ukraine are now extinct villages. Dear National Deputies! All in attendance, Your Honor! One of the priorities of activity is to protect human rights in information, freedom of thought, and speech, to freely make their views known, for freedom of information is the fundamental right of man and the criterion of all other freedoms. Monitoring by the Commissioner shows that the journalist’s profession in Ukraine remains one of the most dangerous, according to journalists in Ukraine alone, there is a censorship of the economic, administrative and censorship of the sphere. In a peaceful Ukraine, journalists die as in countries of war. In 10 years, 38 media personnel were killed in Ukraine. Mass beatings, blackmails, intimidation of journalists, blockage of publishing and publishing accounts, arrests of media personnel, the removal and kidnapping of newspapers and books, have increased the tendency to monopolize the media. The new method of fighting freedom of speech was done in Crimea at the editor of the European Sunday newspaper, Volodymiri Lucie, without killing, killing journalists with eternal imprisonment for fabricated accusations - the journalist was still awaiting the verdict. Only after the intervention of his fellow journalists, the Commissioner and the relevant decision of the court did the journalist go free. Sadly, such experiences are not unique. The Commissioner had to be released from prison for the unlawful arrest of journalist Dmitr Shurkal and editor-in-chief of the newspaper "Freedom" Oleg Ljashka, and in the court and the Attorney-General's office to defend the rights of the mother of the missing journalist George Gongadze. Regrettably, so far no printed national independent edition and public television has been produced in Ukraine to provide unbiased, balanced information to the public. Disinformation also leads to false political decisions that cause great harm to the State as a whole. But freedom of speech has another side, another dimension, I'd say. The authorized one receives many letters asking citizens to protect them from the widespread propaganda of violence, cruelty, and fornication that cause great schools to the moral and spiritual values of our people, injure young people’s mentality, and breed crime that is unprecedented because of their cruelty. It causes anxiety and the fact that individual media, in agreement with their sponsors and founders, are playing the role of information killers in the same way as it does irreparable harm to the democratic foundations of society that are emerging. At the time of the adoption of the Independent Media Act in Ukraine, which would regulate the legal, economic and political principles of their activities. Because the experience of developed countries in the world does not deny that without the truth of independent media, it is not possible to build a civilized and democratic state. I would like to refer separately to the question of the judicial branch of power, the court’s defence. Monitoring of the Commissioner indicates that one of the most painful remains the issue of the exercise of the right of justice by citizens. From this point of view, more than a third of all citizens’ appeals come to the Commissioner of Human Rights. And this cannot help but be concerned that it is the courts that are the main part of the national system of human rights protection. In the past year, the number of such appeals to the Authorized One has nearly doubled. The biggest complaint came with regard to the insubordination of the judgments and decisions of the courts, which were not timely or not properly dealt with by judges. An analysis of Ukrainian citizens' appeals gives reason for the Commissioner to conclude that, despite the measures that have been taken and taken to improve the judicial system for the implementation of the so-called small reform, the adoption of the Sudokure Act on 7 February 2002, the expectation of millions of Ukrainian citizens to improve the judicial system has not been justified. The situation of the right to legal protection continues to be unsatisfactory in Ukraine. The problem is exacerbated, in particular, by appeals and appeals against the decisions and judgements of the judges of the first instance, because after amendments to the Civil Procedure Code, the decision of the local court can be challenged in an appeal and cassation order solely through the court of the first instance which took the decision. And in many cases, this very court of first instance, which is usually not interested in this, usually blocks the prosecution itself. The legal protection of citizens is greatly affected by the burden of handling cases. Court statistics show that in 2001 the courts were dealt with with infringements of 58,000 times. criminal cases or one in three. 250,000. Civil affairs or one in five. In some areas, particularly in Kharkiv, Donetsk, Zaporozhye, with a violation of the terms, 40 to 50 percent of all cases are dealt with. During 2001, a citizen of Litwinenko was repeatedly approached by an authorized officer for keeping him in custody in a Hersonian detention facility, and think only for more than six years without a court sentence. For various reasons, it was found that the criminal case was repeatedly postponed, that there were witnesses, victims, and that there was no funding for the national jury, and so forth. Taking into account the extreme health of Litwinenka, the Commissioner addressed a letter to the head of the Hersonian Court of Appeal. After considering this submission, the person was finally released from custody. There have been widespread cases of inadequacies in judging innocent people. In 2000, 294 were handed down. In 2001 - 332. When dealing with criminal cases, judges often fail to demonstrate the quality of pretrial investigation materials, and they pass indictments in cases involving substantial violations of the law. In 2001, sentences of 8 thousand were cancelled and changed in the appeal and cassation order. 387 people. In recent years, the problem of the material, technical and human security of judges has become even more acute. The problem of financial security for judges is being dealt with poorly. The case came to the point that judges began to appeal to the courts themselves for the protection of their rights to receive wages. The conduct recently opened by the Human Rights Commissioner of 51 judges of the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region has established that during 2002-2003, 2,437 executive documents have been issued to the Department of State Executive Services of the Pechersky district administration of the justice system of Kiev for the collection of funds in favour of the judges of various regions totalling over 16 million dollars. What, then, should ordinary Ukrainian citizens be told if the judges themselves are unable to defend their right to timely and adequate wages? At the same time, authorized by human rights, the critical state of the administration of justice in Ukraine cannot be used as an excuse for human rights violations, especially since a large number of such violations are due to the improper performance of judges in their service duties. The most painful problem remains the very low level of enforcement in Ukraine. This is evidenced by the large number of claims that come from questions of judicial protection to a human rights officer. Thousands of citizens, with judicial decisions on their hands, have been unable to implement them for years, especially with regard to obtaining the money they deserve. A particular violation of judicial decisions involves incurring debt from wages, compensation for damage, illness or death, and indemnification of damage caused by crime. In 2002, 258,000 papers on wage collection in Ukraine remained unfulfilled, or nearly 52 percent. Also, more than a third of the amounts awarded for compensation for health damage and crimes totalled 176 million dollars remained unreparable. Inadequate efficiency in the functioning of the public administration is due to the existence of a number of objective circumstances, which cannot be overlooked today, and in particular, the lack of liquidation assets in the debtor and its announcement in search of them, procedural problems related to the recovery and bankruptcy of borrowers, the lack of government contractors, their overload, their low level of earnings, and so on. A serious problem, the problem of failure to enforce judicial decisions, is being violated today, and appeals to the European Court of Human Rights are increasing. Over the past five years, more than 7,000 citizens of Ukraine have been contacted by the International Court of Justice alone, which led Ukraine to join the European Convention on Human Rights in 2002 for the first time since its accession to the five countries of which the largest number of appeals has been registered. The Commissioner’s monitoring has shown that the most frequent applicants have appealed to the European Court of Human Rights in connection with the failure of national courts to enforce their decisions, the violation of the rights to improper detention conditions in the penitentiary measures of Ukraine, and the unhindered possession of their property. In particular, savings are a problem. At the same time, despite this large number of appeals today, the European Court of Justice has accepted only ten petitions from Ukrainian citizens and has rendered two decisions in substance. If the situation of the execution of judgments in Ukraine in general does not change dramatically in the near future, Ukraine will soon expect a flood of lawsuits to Eurosud, which will bring considerable material costs to our nation. Dear National Deputies! The Ministry of Internal Affairs takes the lead in the structure of public authorities with constitutional responsibilities for the protection of human rights and freedoms. Most law enforcement personnel are honest, courageous lunatics who work loyally to ensure the peace and security of our citizens. However, the grave concern of the Commissioner for Human Rights has caused a brutal violation of Ukraine’s inalienable rights to life, to the inviolability and respect of the dignity of a person on the part of police officers, who are legally protected by human rights and security. This problem has been traced back to the institution's beginning of creation, but unfortunately, the fundamental changes have not been made for the better. This is evident from the monitoring of the Authorized, numerous complaints made by Ukrainian citizens. Only after the application of torture did more than 12,000 citizens of Ukraine turn to the Authorized One. And every day I get telegrams and references to these tortures. The fact that there has been a criminal charge of violence over the past four years shows that over 400 police officers, of whom 168 have been convicted, have been prosecuted for these crimes. Last year alone, more than a thousand militiamen were released for their tendency to violence from internal affairs. This indicates the magnitude and reality of the problem in Ukraine. To a large extent, however, this is done, as still, in order to increase the crime rate. And it's clear that crimes need to be solved, but not by other crimes. In the vast majority of cases of beatings, 52 percent are carried out by authorized persons, in the premises of the Rifle Department itself, with the aim of beatings in delayed confessions in connection with undisclosed crimes. The most common tortures in Ukraine, I have to testify today, unfortunately, from this rostrum, is the prolonged beating, the use of an anti-gas or a polyethylene bag with no breathing, electric current, handcuffing and placement in a so-called press camera. In a number of cases, torture has resulted in death, disability, or persistent health problems for the detained person or suspect. For example, at present, the Sadgir local court of Chernivts is looking at a criminal case involving three criminal investigation warranted by the militia unit on May 14, last year, who unjustifiably detained 22 - year - old Alexander Kiriluk, requiring him to confess to the theft of an alleged computer. Seven hours later, he was taken straight from the militia to a city hospital with head injuries, limbs, and a broken jaw. Now this young man has not been disabled all his life. According to this fact, the Human Rights Commissioner has openly introduced the matter and has taken on personal control. We met him directly, and we know all the circumstances. This person has only undergone 11 operations and is walking, excuse me, on the side of this person's bag and is destined to live in this condition for almost all of his life. Nothing else like torture is staying in temporary detention rooms and isolation rooms. Conditions there in the absolute majority resemble the Middle Ages and are linked to a real health risk. The cameras are flat concrete bags, they have no fresh air, no drinking water, no sanvus. People are not being fed properly, they're being deprived of any connection with the outside world and their family. In temporary holding cells, they eat once or twice a day, and in detention rooms, people eat only on the basis of transmissions from their parents, if there are such transfers, and if there is not, a person is destined to go through three times of torture with hunger. And it's not thousands of people, it's hundreds of people, hundreds of thousands of people. Because only in the detention rooms of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs, there are an average of 25,000 people in Kiev each year and, in general, there are approximately 500,000 people in Ukraine’s TT system each year. For failure to provide food for the detained, the Authorized three times appealed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the government. And finally, in cooperation with the government, with you, honourable national deputies, I was informed that the Ministry of Internal Affairs had allocated 266 million dollars for the article "Food to Detained Citizens of Ukraine." However, as established, at the request of the Authorized Auditor. KRU Ukraine’s 43,000 - and - a - half dollars in the Kirovograd region were directed at paying off the debt to the individual warehouse and food rations, and in the Mikolaiiv region, nearly 10,000 of these bills were spent on feeding service dogs. A dog, of course, is a human friend. We have to take into account and feed her too. But you have to think about what the cost is. It is also important that in the practical work of the prosecutors and the judges, the distinguished national electorates adopted by you in the new Criminal Code, article 127, which defines torture as a separate crime. And here I am ready to work with you. Dear National Deputies! One of the priorities of the activities of the Commissioner is to monitor the respect of the constitutional rights of arrested and sentenced persons who are being punished in the penitentiary institutions of the Department of State of Ukraine on the issue of execution of sentences. On January 1, 2003, there were about 150,000 convicted workers in correctional institutions and over 43,000 in detention facilities. The reform of the penitentiary system has finally begun with the new leadership of the State Department and has some positive developments. However, the status of respect for the constitutional rights of those who are there does not correspond to international standards in most institutions. The overcrowding of investigators is largely the result of unbalanced election by prosecutors, and from the second half of 2001 by judges and prosecutors, a precautionary action in the form of custody. The monitoring carried out by the Commissioner for Human Rights has shown that the anticipated judicial reform regarding the reduction of arrests just after we handed over this function to the court, unfortunately, did not bring about any positive changes. Ukraine was and remains the world leader in arresting as a precautionary measure. In Ukraine alone, 37 percent of those facing criminal charges are arrested. Almost every other person facing criminal charges in Kiev is arrested. At present, there are a large number of persons in detention who are convicted of crimes small in the correctional and labour institutions, and many of these people, according to the administration of these institutions themselves, deserve their behavior for early release from punishment. These are, above all, women, underage, elderly, disabled. Sadly, though, last year the humane fact of amnesty was never accepted. And lastly, honourable national deputies, time is running out fast. To the full conviction of the Commissioner for Human Rights, effective parliamentary control over the observance of human constitutional rights and freedoms cannot be achieved without the cooperation of the Commissioner with the National Deputies, the Committees of the Supreme Council, the Deputies and the factions. The search for the most fruitful forms of work and methods is ongoing today. However, I would like to point out that in five years of the existence of the Human Rights Commissioner's institution only from you, the honourable electorates of this calling and previous appeals, more than a thousand appeals have been made to the Commissioner from the people's advocates and parliamentary committees. In providing specific assistance to the deputies regarding the solution of your electorate’s problems, I see my direct responsibility. Honorable national MPs, all present, of course, in a brief oral presentation, cannot touch all aspects of such a complex problem as human rights in Ukraine and their state of respect. Your point today is a monitoring study in the form of a report by the Commissioner for Human Rights with conclusions and suggestions. I believe that we can only make a fundamental change in the situation by working together, and remember that as long as the rights of one person are violated, this means that the rights of each of us are violated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. It's been 15 minutes. Vadim Gurov, next one is Anatoly Frost. Light up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u13	Vadim Gurov, Krivbas, electoral district number 32. Dear Nina Ivanovna! My electorate at the meetings complains of violations by some, I emphasize, by some of the judges of the current legislation, by the train in the courts of the case, by making illegal decisions. What rights are vested in the Authority to influence the positions of the courts, the judges, without violating the principles of their independence. I emphasize by not violating the principles of their independence. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u14	Thank you, Vadim Mikolaiovich. This is an extremely important question that you have raised today, and I want to say that the judicial branch of power, by the way, as the Authorized is an independent body, whose involvement in any official's activity is not allowed. However, all of us are with you and the judges and the Commissioner, and the national deputies are still subject to control and accountability to be their people. He is also the principal source of power in our nation. I want to tell you that the Court of Justice Act, which was adopted in this room, gave the Commissioner the right to represent in the sessions of the qualified judges' committees, where the personnel issues are resolved, we have the right to represent our representatives and representatives participate in the seven regions of Ukraine where the qualified judges work. The commission to work in the Supreme Court and to be a member of which I am to be as Authorized as Human Rights Commissioner has not yet met. However, it is this right that gives us the opportunity, at least for a little bit, to control the activities of the judicial branch of power. And what I want to say is that very important examples today are already on the basis of such direct sessions involving representatives of the Ombudsman of Ukraine that we already have and have started to monitor so that the judicial branch of power does not remain uncontrollable. However, the stock control package, we remember, is in the judges themselves. And that's a question for the people. When they passed the law, they should ensure that 51 percent of the controlling stock is said to be in other branches of government, not in the judicial corps itself. This will have to be taken into account in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u15	Please, Nina Ivanovna, give a more concise answer. Please! You have a very long time to answer. Anatoly Frost. Next up, Vasile Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u16	Anatoly Frost, 83 constituency, Communist faction. Dear Nina Ivanovna, I have great respect for that job, the enormous work you do with your subjects, but I would like to ask you a question. Which is traditionally what we have in Russia: what to do and where to start? The point is that all the references that our citizens make to us, we turn to the MPs, to the various institutions and, in turn, to the human rights officer, they decide very, very badly. I'll tell you what, today, there's a very large number of questions in the Supreme Council Hall, in which there wasn't a call, it's also a testimony that the MPs are being referred to, but I don't know how they're reacting to who. That's why the MPs rushed through the Supreme Council right now, and maybe the Chief of the Supreme Council will respond in the official and, so to speak, with full respect. So the increase in the number of references is exactly saying that you and I may not be working together. Maybe you should give more authority, as our President says, that everything is not enough, that the issues that citizens are asking are being resolved in our country. And so is vachanalia!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear Anatoly Mikolayovich, I would like to point out that, first of all, we need to strengthen the control function of Parliament. Those rights, which by the very nature of parliamentaryism belong to the higher legislative body, should be effectively returned to Parliament by you, the honourable electorate. And canceling, let's say, certain rights and authorized members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine because of the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court, should finally be reinstated in the same, in the original, as they say, the look in which it was, in order for you to have the right to address the relevant authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the rest, not just because of the authorized one, because I am alone and my little team cannot do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u18	Vasil Antonovich Kalinchuk, next Nikolainko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u19	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party The great Nina Ivanovna! And in last year's letter, and today you rightly note the whole series, but I want to emphasize the same violations of rights and freedoms in Ukraine. Last year’s letter was sent to you to correct the situation of ministries and authorities, local authorities. So I have a question, why do the same violations happen again, and what do you think the Supreme Council should do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u20	Thank you, Vasil Antonovich. You have quite rightly said that not only is the report presented to parliamentarians in this room, but as an act of reaction it is directed to other authorities, particularly the executive branch of power. One example is that the first report of the Commissioner was sent to all governors of Ukraine, to the heads of the district governments. The answer I received from Žitomirščina was an interesting one, but a respected human rights authority and the protection of their rights, in Žitomirščina, was noted in the answers, the law enforcement authorities were involved. What do you need to do about it? Raising the legal awareness of the first human beings in the regions so that they can have a concrete effect on the state of gaining and protecting human rights and freedoms in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u21	Stanislaw Nikolayenko, the next Noshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u22	Nikolainko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear Nina Ivanovna, I want to say right away that your report was extremely interesting, and we're going to take a lot of it and work with it. I'd like to ask you two questions. First, as you appreciate from the depth of your experience, the availability and freeness of higher education, article 53 of the Constitution, when we now have, practically, 1 out of every 4 children can only learn from the budget, I mean in colleges and mass of rural, urban children from poor families today have to pay money and we do everything we can to ensure that we have nothing left after us, because we need to teach those who have minds, not money. And the second question. Do you see the need for a sharp and active strengthening of the control functions of the authorities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, such as the Court of Auditors and the Human Rights Commissioner, with a sharp increase in control functions and the ability to influence the situation of executive authorities, other branches of authority. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u23	Thank you, Stanislaw Mikolaiovich. I, like you, have taken a position on, unfortunately, non-implementation, a brutal violation after the third article of the Constitution of Ukraine and was, and I remain the person who stands in positions that education in a state that has become civilized and wants to become a civilized way of developing its own, must be accessible to absolutely any human being. Of course, it can be only when there is State support and education must be free. That's the first one. It's different. What's going on is the raise of the control functions. I would like to emphasise that your control functions, as parliamentarians, should be strengthened, first of all. And really considered, a lot of parliamentary hearings that are very important to you in this room, think about this problem carefully, all together, and determine systematically what needs to be done. As far as two control bodies are concerned, which form Parliament itself, but which become independent of Parliament, I support it, but they are bound by the umbilical cord of Parliament as an alma mater. Of course, it is still not acceptable for our institution to say, changes to procedural codes in five years, and when we come and appear before the courts, every time the judge makes his own judgment or allows the Commissioner, and by applying the rules of direct action of the Constitution, or by refusing, let's say, in the Leonid Kozachenko case, when my representatives were directly trying to participate. In this way, it seems to me that the Commissioner is concerned, that Parliamentarians should immediately consider amending a series of articles of the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, particularly criminal and civil. The same is true of the Court of Auditors. You know better than I do that question. Simonenko has repeatedly raised this question. I think that would be fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u24	Mikola Petrovich Noshchenko, next to Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u25	Dear Nina Ivanovna, thanks for the report, was listened attentively. The Hard Ukraine faction, 160 constituency. I have a question. You have dedicated the left part of your report to law enforcement agencies and their institutions where citizens are forced to remain. But there's another part of our society, the second part of our society is institutions where people, first of all older people, with disabilities, are kept out of self-sustainment. And unfortunately, there are also numerous human rights violations that apply, both to budgetary financing and to other circumstances. Second, human rights, a perfectly healthy person. Enter any budget agency from the ZAGS, the room and others, where our rights are also violated, requiring a lot of help, copies, xerops, and so on, and for all that, there is a need to do away with the family budget of those last copies. How does your structure react to violations of these human rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u26	Thank you, Mikola Petrovich. You've touched one of the most painful problems is the problem of disabled people in Ukraine. In fact, the figures, unfortunately, in Ukraine are not accurate, in fact it is known that 1 out of every 10 people in the world is a person with disabilities with various defects. And Ukraine here is not an exception to the great regret. Back in the first annual report of the Commissioner, I made, dedicated a separate chapter, understanding the importance and urgency of this issue, the problem of respecting the rights and freedoms of a disabled person in Ukraine. We're working with Honorable Deputy Valeri Suškević on these issues, and he's in our institution all the time. And I want to say that some of the specific questions we've been proposing, and they've started to resolve. But the problem remains and is, indeed, still unresolved. Touching a lot of help. Just like you, I think it's a brutal violation of human rights, and I want to say that at the time when the minister of work was a respected John Sahan, an experiment was conducted, particularly in Lviv, and we were investigating this experiment, where just the number of these all the information was reduced to normal, as they say, a human quantity that can mentally withstand any human being. It seems to me that such an experiment should be widespread throughout Ukraine, and the time required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u27	Sergei Volodymyrovich Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u28	Please pass the word to Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u29	Please, the school microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear reporter! First of all, I have three questions, of course. But before that, I wanted to say that human rights violations in Ukraine are very big, but the only ones worth paying attention to are violations of the rights to freedom. Because everyone else there: the right to life, the other one -- the violation will be traditional. But when the rights to freedom are violated, when there are political prisoners, you know about them, I would like you from this rostrum to confirm the existence of political prisoners in Ukraine, because the boys of March 9 did not commit any criminal offense, and you know it. You know what conditions they're in, TB and all that. Next. Now there are five people in the holding cell, six years from now, who have no right to stay there, because they don't have a period of detention there, especially, in the case of Nicholas Wittuck, you know that very well. How's it going? And the next. You won the Constitutional Court's case for violating the International Labour Organization's conference on trade registration. And now the law in the Supreme Council makes those changes that are prohibited by the Constitutional Court. Here are your actions I'd like to hear from this microphone, these three questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u31	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Let me start from the bottom, from the third question. A lot of questions so I don't forget. As for my application to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and my decision on the right to freedom of union. This is what it is called all over the world, indeed, by the Authorized People’s Advocates, who similarly appealed to the Court, and the Constitutional Court combined it into one conduct. We won this case. But unfortunately, we've faced a back process through the session hall, and through Parliament, we've started stretching through the honourable people's deputies, and I've had some suggestions about changes to Ukrainian legislation, and that's how the Constitutional Court ruled. Here is the honourable head of the Constitutional Court, Mr. Mikola Selon, I think we should monitor the implementation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court and avoid such cases. This is the first time. It's different. I would like to say that in this report in the chapter “Political Rights. The rights to freedom of peaceful assembly” and so forth, I dedicated a separate chapter to the March 9 issue. Believe me, it's the people's nationals. This is an honest, principled monitoring of the Commissioner, I would like you all to read it, and each of you to have the truth that was actually happening on March 9, 2001 in Ukraine. I then addressed the Head of the Security Service, which is, by the way, this story in this report to, the honourable Vladimir Ivanovich Radchenk, he supported my position on the retraining of the case, you know, it followed the signs of article 71 of the Criminal Code in the 60s edition. And what I'm saying is that in fact, the D.A. didn't respond to our common position at the time, the case remained where it was. So for today, there's a couple of other guys out there who are 14, by the way, convicted, aren't there, Andrew School? - Fourteen convicts. They are still in the detention facility for today in Lukyanivka. On April 24, a lawyer’s appeal will be held. I hope that after the judges are familiar with this chapter of the report, they too will be sent a just and objective decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u32	Nina Ivanovna, thank you, sit down. The question has been considered. The decision will take place on the day of the vote. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law is being introduced. Ladies and gentlemen! Your Honor, calm down, calm down. This is not the first time we have considered this question. In order for us to discuss this, we need to make decisions in the hall, vote. The usual procedure is just a report. We've moved away, we've given 15 minutes to ask. There is no objection if we now make a decision and discuss it, we will discuss it. I'm out. Let's make a decision. Well, you can insist, of course. How long are we gonna take? What's it gonna take, 20 minutes? Please, Gennady Josephovich. Widow's Microphone Gennady Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, the law does not provide for a discussion of the report of the Commissioner for Human Rights. The Supreme Council passed such a law, but it's nonsense. We should use the report of the Commissioner for Human Rights to discuss in a broad way the dramatic situation that is taking place in our country today. I am very grateful to Carpathian Nina Ivanovna for her heroic feats in this matter, but we need to discuss it, but we will make changes to the bill. That's all, and the law doesn't provide for discussion. Let us not discuss this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u34	If so, we will put to the vote, please, Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u35	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Jovkovsky, Our Ukraine. Dear Mr. Head, I understand the complexity of the situation in which we are today in the very ritualistic, as it were, discussion of the matter. But we live in Ukraine, where only a small group of people have human rights, the rest are lawless, painful questions. I'd like you to pay attention, Mr. Head, to one single, out of the 450 deputies who are on the Supreme Council asked only six questions, and we quickly folded it all down, as if there was no problem. That's why I'm proposing, if, let's say, we don't have a better option to discuss this report, let's at least vote in favour of continuing to ask questions. Carpathian uncompromisingly answers these questions, does not deceive, is very interesting to both society and to all of us. I very much ask that you continue to answer any questions. Thank you. - I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u36	I'd like to hear the opinion of Hennadi Josipovich, the head of the profile committee, there's no objection if we keep asking questions for another 10 minutes. Please, Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u37	Thank you very much. Gennady Andryovich, you're increasingly becoming an embodiment of democracy in the Supreme Council Hall, and I'm doing it in public, and the question is, and the proposal is. You see how many people are here to discuss this important, I think the fundamental issue of our reality. Let's make this vote, you're asking the question, not who's responsible for us having this discussion, but to put it this way: who's against it. So we can have a discussion? I think the decision will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u38	Gennady Josephovich Vudovenko, please. Widow's Microphone Gennady Josephovich. Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, I have such an offer, and we will officially bring it to the Head of the Supreme Council of the Professional Committee. But that's a proposition. Soon we will be overcoming the human rights commissioner. And we're going to propose that we deal with this issue in this way, so that it can be discussed widely, not only by the candidature, but in general, by the human rights state. What needs to be done and what is happening to us today. Thank you. But what do we have today? 30 people sit here and discuss such an important issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u40	I can only do one thing — in accordance with the Rules — to put the matter to the vote. That's all I can do. Please, Sergey Gmira.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u41	Gennady Andreevich, here is a colleague of Udovenko who said that there was no law for consideration. But he doesn't forbid it, no law forbids consideration. And under our domestic law, we are dealing with issues. It is very surprising to me that Gennady Josifovich, who should seem to protect human rights, opposes public debate on these issues. I think it's some kind of misunderstanding. Let us, without any vote until the end, as you have proposed, discuss this issue within 20 minutes. Gennady Andreevich, this is your proposal, very wise.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u42	Honorable colleagues, Gennady Josephovich, rightly said what was involved in the discussion. But we can make another decision, and he also stressed it. We can vote with you. If we don't vote, let's say by consensus for 10 minutes, let's keep asking questions and finish this question. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE False
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u43	No, you can't? Let's vote. I'll bet you a vote on the question of discussion. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. Turn on the "Race" system. [[11:40:02]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Okay, 10 minutes. Please, Nina Ivanovna, please, 10 more minutes to ask. Mikola Policczuk, next Boris Oilynik. Please, I am only asking you very much, Nina Ivanovna, please give a more concise answer to your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u44	Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u45	Please, Volodymyr Yavorowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u46	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear Nina Ivanovno! I want to join that chorus too. It seems to me that the only thing Ukraine on the international stage has achieved is that we have a normal ombudsman. I know many of them, and what you do truly deserves the highest respect. [[Applause]] Thank you for that. Indeed, speaking of human rights today in our country of Ukraine with you, the issue is almost dramatic, because, in fact, human rights are used only a small group, which consists of several families. All the rest are people who are lawless and vulnerable. But I think there's a sector where Ukraine is generally at the level of medieval, scary, bloody. You know, these are terrible tortures in the bodies of previous knowledge. He can’t even stand our limited television coverage, and sometimes he gives these terrible episodes when innocent people are tortured, they are beaten out of their testimony, which they are not guilty of. Maybe one of the most tragic episodes was the lion's story, you know, when you tortured a man, you didn't do anything wrong. You've come to Lviv, I want to ask you, who is being punished by the heads of the Ministry of Internal Affairs on this matter? And the second question is short. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'll put it in. You also talked about killing journalists, violating their rights to life. But there are colossal violations that we do not speak of in Ukraine at all. It's a denial of people's right to information, to information. Here comes Minister Chi now, threw out my program, which every week, it's the television and the radios know, brought 15-20 thousand letters, and instead of me he's speaking today. How do you appreciate all this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u47	Thank you, Volodymyr Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u48	In one word, you can answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u49	The first question was, I understand, about Yuri Mazola's case in Lviv. It's the case of a 20-year-old kid who's on the inside of the S.H.I.E.L.D. In this case, directly involved people who worked in the detention facility, along with some from the district attorney’s office in the Lviv district. Regrettably, for several years the case was pending, even exhumation of the corpse, and in fact the parents were handed over to a tortured innocent person who did not plead guilty to the crimes that were finally discovered, by the way, to the honor of law enforcement officials, a serial killer named Onoprian. Yury Mazola chose death, not dishonor, and he suffered terrible torture. There was no bone on it. I learned about this when I was a deputy just like you. And I was sitting in this room back in 1996, but I got direct access just to being an ombutzman, and I didn't forget about it. I mean, yes, it's over, it's punishable, but in fact, all the guilty sentences are suspended conditionally or conditionally. This is the first time. It says, by the way, it proves that there is a message in this system. This is the first time. And second. It's about the right to information. Indeed, the right to information is a fundamental right for everyone and is the standard of other human rights. Regrettably, Ukraine today has not achieved any certain shifts in this direction, sadly. I share your concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u50	Boris Oljinik, next one is Grozyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u51	Please pass the word to Olga Petrovni Hinzburg. And change my picture, or I'm not really there.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u52	Hinzburg, 161 constituency. Dear Nina Ivanovna, I understand a very difficult job, a difficult situation in which you are and your desire to resolve these issues. I have a question like this, maybe a little more talk. Now, I have a district and I have problems, just like others: failure to execute court decisions. I go wherever I go, especially to the Ministry of Justice, and they tell me where the letters come from: we don't have the right to intervene in decision-making and privatization. And I'm standing here thinking about what privatization is all about. The court's rulings are not executed upon payment of wages from enterprises, period. Next, the citizenship that stands at the moment, on an acute issue like this, cannot be acquired by citizenship associated with the issuing of evidence at the Russian Embassy. Next, the same preservation of citizens still, still, still. What do I have to say? Then I read your book and the closing word. Next, to the deep conviction of the Commissioner, it is only possible to change the situation of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in the State only collectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u53	You don't have to read the whole book.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u54	That's it. People have listened to us, they think: the police are there, their violations, the courts aren't, the Ministry of Justice isn't responding, privatization is in violation. Finally, the Human Rights Commissioner will say something about what to do. Well, I'd like to hear, maybe I don't know, maybe you know what to do, so there's no such thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u55	Olga Petrovna, thank you for asking. What I'm trying to say is that it's about failure to execute court decisions, and I want to go to this room. By the way, you passed two laws: on how to pay off taxpayers ’ obligations to the budget and to government trust funds, this hall was adopted in 2000, and on the holding of a moratorium on the enforcement of assets in 2001. What laws prohibit the enforcement of assets that, by the way, have to pay off the debt of wages if their share of property in the statute is more than 25 percent state-owned. So you did it yourself, consciously did it, clearly what you were doing. But I mean, there's no definite answer to any of your completely fair questions. We need to look for complex approaches. And really, look all together. And it is the report of the Authorized One, the other and the third that provides a set of suggestions to be made. There is not enough time or day to answer that question. Read the account of the Authorized One.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u56	Vitaly Shibko. The next Pavlovsky. I can't see anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u57	Vitaly Shibko, Ukrainian Socialist Party Nina Ivanovna, thank you so much for the report, it's very interesting and thorough. In fact, your camera has worked for you personally to tell you a lot of things. I have a question for you. First. Unfortunately, there was the head of the Constitutional Court, he's not here now, and I'd like him to hear that question. How do you feel about the decision they've made that we're subject to administrative misconduct? Is it constitutional or not? And the judges, the President, no, they're still completely intact. That's the first question. And the second question. According to your information, 7 million people do not believe in worlds, seek jobs, and so forth. In your opinion, should there be any law that obliges companies to give guarantees to those who send them abroad? Because I've prepared such a law, I've registered it, and now there's a fierce opposition to it. They write all the irresponsible, responsible workers who say no, such a law should not be like that. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u58	Thank you, Vitalia Yakovich. I want to say very briefly to your first question. There is a violent attack on Ukrainian parliamentaryism. And in this case, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is actually being used. This is the first time. It's different. Which affects our citizens abroad. I presented to you two weeks ago a special report, on my own initiative, “The rights of our fellow countrymen abroad” and made careful monitoring of these issues. In this report, by the way, I went to your draft law, and I supported it. And I think that the Ukrainian Parliament should adopt this law as soon as possible, and it is a specific legislative rule that must become an obstacle to those areas, shadowy in fact, in this intermediate business that is engaged in such a business and our citizens are actually being illegally exported and employed without any rights outside our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u59	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u60	Nina Ivanovna! Again, I turned to you about the prisoners who are now in prison. You've been in the detention facility repeatedly, you know, under what conditions they're kept, I don't know what you've been shown there, you know, and until now, even though it's not allowed windows in the detention room, and there's no beam of light in any camera that I've been sitting in, for example, and I think Kozachenko's sitting there without seeing the light. That's the first one. They were supposed to be taken off, but they're so-called blinds. And the people are called thugs. The other one. As I sat there, I heard your speech on TV, where you said that they were eating beautifully in a tracking isolation, even the oil was being given. I'll be honest with you, I haven't even tried to eat what they give me and I don't think anyone can use it. Because the pig in the village feeds better quality food, for if pigs were fed to what is being fed in the inseparable isolate, their meat could not be eaten and could not be sold to anyone. That's two. Third. I remind you of the name, Mikola Vitruk, a man named Mikola Vitruk is in a detention facility for three and a half years and without the right to stay there, i.e. the court has confirmed twice that he has no right to stay there, and he still holds back to the police's request, as always. I mean, violating human rights is the hardest thing to do, I agree, but freedom is the most important thing to me anyway. You know those difficult conditions, those inhuman, animal conditions in the detention facility. Thank you. What will be done?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u61	Thank you. What's going on, as you said "bayans," I'm going to call it, it's the turn of the windows, it's a painful problem, and one of the first things I did when I, together with Ukrainian journalists, with media representatives, was able to enter, as they say, for the first time in my life for this game. The process started, but it's going extremely slowly. I'm convinced that even in Lukyanivka, "bayans" are only in those windows where people who have tuberculosis are sitting. By the way, it's a nonsensus, even the TB sufferer first has to take out the bayanas and give fresh air for today, because out of 6,000 in recent years who died behind bars, 1 out of every 3 died of tuberculosis. That's the first thing we need to do is continue to solve the problem in a concrete way. I think Vladimir Anatoliyovich Ljovczyn hears us, and this question after the report is presented will be even more decisive steps on his part to decide, this is the first. The second is that it touches food. Mr. Andrey, when you were in the Security Service investigative unit, you know that there was a diet of 5 bracelets, and there was actually a minimum standard that was supposed to be right for a human being. Of course, the department's investigative isolation system is not available, because they don't have enough funding in the budget, and that's a problem that needs to be addressed in a comprehensive way. As far as Vitruk is concerned, please give me an official MP's address, and we'll look at it properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u62	The First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Legal Policy, Mikola Vasilovich Onischuk, please. Onichuk Mikli Vasilovich's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u63	Thank you very much, Your Honor Chairman. Nina Ivanovna, I have a personal conviction and I share this view, I share this view of my colleagues from the faction that you are worthy of representing the Supreme Council as a Human Rights Commissioner. And by the way, we're going to support your new promotion. But I do have a question about how a lawyer is doing. Today, a law that regulates the work of an authorized human rights officer, which your opinion or need to be improved, and if so, what kind of issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u64	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich, I want to say that he normally needs improvement, but today I have already stressed that the Code needs to be improved procedurally, where the Commissioner is actually removed as a human rights defender. And this today, for me, as the Authorized One is the most painful question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u65	Have a seat, please. The first Deputy Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Kornienko Mikhail Vasilovich, is available for help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u66	Thank you. I must say that not everything was objectively presented in Nina Ivanovna’s report. First of all, we think of the picture that was painted in relation to torture, it's not entirely objective, it's terrible. First. I'm asking you to listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u67	Dear colleagues! This is an IMF representative who has the right to help. Please continue. You can't do that! Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u68	I'm asking you to listen. First. Two thirds of ITT, two thirds of temporary detention cells are in good condition. And I think Nina Ivanovna knows about it. We have informed the Commissioner of human rights on these matters. And the second. I have to say that in order to feed those who receive from the WTT, there are 14 million budget allocations in special receivers, reception distributors. The bracelet, not 266, as Nina Ivanovna said. I think it's just not allowed to call that number, I don't know what it's all about, but you have to call those numbers. And now. We would still like to hear the objective truth. If there are criminal cases, you have to call them 12 grand. This does not mean that all of them have been confirmed. You can't just use populism. Yes, there are. all of these facts, which are known, are being investigated and taken accordingly. Thank you for your attention. Eating at 22.9.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u69	A representative of the Ministry is entitled to help because the issue was directly addressed by this department. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u71	A draft law amending the Ukrainian law on patenting certain types of entrepreneurial activity in respect of a special commercial patent is being introduced. The word is given to the deputy head of the National Tax Administration of the Ukraine Chitra Alexi Ivanovich. Please calm down. Calm down! Calm down. Let's work. We listened to School Andrew, and we also listened to the information provided by a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It's okay. Please report to Alexia Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u72	Thank you. The Honourable Head, honourable national deputies, is submitting to your consideration a draft Ukrainian law amending the law on the patenting of certain types of entrepreneurial activity. Ukraine’s Act of 13.12.01 amending the law on patenting certain types of entrepreneurial activity introduced on January 5, 2002, provides that a special patent may be purchased by a business entity that does not exceed one million dollars a year. As of October 1, 2002, the number of business entities involved in the acquisition of commercial patents is 5,000,548. Today, this figure is a little over six thousand. More than 7.5 patents were purchased. This is about four percent if you look at the percentage of patents you have acquired. Since the acquisition of special commercial patents, some 30 million dollars have come into the budget, accounting for 12 percent of the total amount paid for commercial patents. Businesses that have exceeded the marginal level of implementation and have switched to the general tax system have been further paid to the State budget for some 3 million dollars. At the same time, a significant law does not provide for the transfer of business subjects in the event of a breach of their limit on the delivery of goods and services during the year. And this budget loss is essentially about one and a half million dollars. In addition, according to the law, if several business entities have trading halls for buyers. or provide construction services in one separate room, a special patent is issued only on the condition that all listed subjects acquire special commercial patents. Since there may be a single entity in the business sector that exceeds the limit on the scope of goods, jobs, services, and services, it was necessary to regulate this law more clearly with a view to protecting the interests of other business entities. With a view to regulating the rules of law and not allowing the budget to be lost, the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Patenting of Certain Business Activities, the bill proposes to provide for the transfer of business entities that carry out activities for the acquisition of a patent in the total amount of taxation in case of overcompensation of the volume of goods for more than one million a year, and proposes to exclude the law on the mandatory acquisition of a special patent by several business entities if they have trading halls for buyers or provide residential services in one separate room. Such suggestions came from many entrepreneurs who work on a special patent, especially those who work for several entrepreneurs in one trading hall or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u73	Please sign up for the question. Let me explain. Vladimir Yavorowski. Next Borszewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u74	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Jovkovsky, Lvivščina Victor Yuschenka's block of our Ukraine. Dear reporter! I liked the logic that was put into the bill and how it was put out. But I belong, unfortunately, to those people who are waiting for the law, and I want to see what it will bring to society, what it will change in this unhappy life, and in this pathetic Ukrainian business. I've got a question for you, like an expert, a person who can count, figure it out in advance. It's a good thing these patents will be. But did you figure out what the amount of special haberdashers for these patents would be? Thank you for your candor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u75	Thank you. The issue is that the law on patents is in force, and the last amendments were made in 2002. So today about bribes, I can't say, I can only say that in different cities, the patent is defined differently. And then when we passed the law, you and I adopted it in such a way that just the basic figure that determines the value of the patent is actually the organs of the local government. And by the way, that's exactly where the taxpayers have nothing to do with it. And about the cost of patents, if that's so interesting, you could call it. Let's say the average price of a patent in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in 2003 is 500 dollars, and let's say in the Zakartat region, your 1234 bracelet is one special patent. So here's the question of setting the size of the specs and the question is correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u76	Victor Valentinovich Borszewski, next School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u77	Borszewski, Communist Party of Ukraine, Dnepropetrovska oblast. The problem that concerns is the law, it concerns very many people. But I would like to ask a question at all about business activities based on the acquisition of patents. What amount does the State now receive from these patents, what part of the general structure of the state's arrivals, the state takes on the basis of these patents?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u78	Thank you. In my report, experts account for about 12 percent of the total. If you look at all the patents that today seem like entrepreneurial activity, it's almost 700 million dollars. So it's quite a lot of money coming, by the way, all the way to the local budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u79	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u80	Thank you. Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Ukrainian National Assembly Dear reporter! There are about 30 million dollars coming from patents to the state budget. And in view of your correction, I understand that this situation will be reduced. I'd like you to say that. And here, too, the bill suggests imposing this when it goes over a million dollars when it turns over a million dollars. Why, then, should quarterly reports be made if a turnover of not more than a million dollars per year? Then why does it go quarterly? This is to increase the amount in envelopes, or in order to simplify the work, well, if an annual report needs to be reported every quarter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u81	It's not that. It's not that. It's not that. Thank you for asking. But today the law in force foresees this million if The entrepreneur made it, let's say, over a year. What if the entrepreneur worked so effectively that he worked this million in, say, six months? So this law of ours that's in force, it didn't say anything about it today. So today this amendment states that an entrepreneur can pass this patent and move on to a general system of taxation after it reaches this marginal level. So that's why we need to get a report with you, because if you're a quarter of a million, please move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u82	Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u83	That's it. That's what I said, that's 12 percent of the total revenue from sales patents. So this is 27, about 30 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u84	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u85	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Alexia Ivanovich! I support the national deputy of Mr. Yavorowski. With regard to the bill that has been passed, we will certainly be determined if we vote for it. In principle, I have no objection to being determined. I'd like to ask you the following question, maybe it's a little bit distant from the bill. Did you know that the Ukrainian Customs Service is in grave violation of the 2003 Ukrainian Budget Act? Article 51. The import of goods from abroad into customs territory is not paid for by the city of registration of these companies. In the region of Czernovetsec in the first quarter alone, some 300,000 dollars have been lost to the local budget. Please give me an answer, or it will be a written answer, or some extent will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u86	Thank you. The point is that you understand what our customs office is responsible for, and I wouldn't comment, let's say where it pays off, I would comment on how effective control is. Therefore, the issue must be fully addressed to the customs office. I won't comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u87	Alexi Ivanovich, time is up. Please sit down. Dear colleagues! If there's no objection we're going to work without a break, we've used a lot of time on the first question, sit down, please. For the purpose of the report, the word is given to the head of the Committee on Economic Policy and the Management of National Economy, Property and Investments by Montenegro Volodymyr Kirilovich. Please, Vladimir Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u88	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy, National Administration, Property and Investment considered the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Patenting of Certain Business Activities on a Special Trade Patent. Registration number 2416. The purpose of the bill is to introduce a rule that provides for the termination of a special trading patent of 1 month in a reporting area, provided that the scope of the goods of the holder exceeds 1 million dollars, which is set out in the law in force today. At the same time with the bill, the committee considered a draft law on the adoption at the local level of the law of the decision on the upper limit of the implementation of goods for the introduction of a special commercial patent whose concept was not supported by committee members. [[Registration number 2160]] The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes that Bill No. 2416 should be considered after the final decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Bill 2160, introduced and worked by the Ukrainian National Deputies, was taken up by Bogatirirov and Pavlenko. The problem is that two bills have been passed and they compete. We also have the conclusion of a budget committee. According to the draft bill, the budget committee has taken a decision, the bill has an impact on the filling of the income part of the budget, including additional revenues that can make up about 3 million dollars and do not require additional funding from government or local budgets. The bill may be adopted as a basis for the first reading, but in accordance with article 27 of Part 3, of the Ukrainian Budget Code, which has been introduced since the new financial year. This is the conclusion of the Budget Committee. Finally, taking into account the above-mentioned Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Patenting of Certain Business Activities on a Special Trade Patent, introduced by Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine No. 2416, based on the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u89	Will there be questions for Vladimir Kirilovich? Please, Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u90	Dear Vladimir Kirilovich, you said that a bill that is being discussed has an impact on the income part of the State Budget. As to how the content of the bill itself can be understood, it can affect the income portion only in terms of increasing the allocations, but not in terms of decreasing. So what's your comment on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u91	I gave you the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Budgets believes that the bill has an impact on the filling of the income part of the budget, especially the additional revenue can make about 3 million dollars, that's a small amount, of course. Above all, he does not need additional funding from the State or from local budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u92	Bogdan Costinjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u93	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear Vladimir Kirilovich, you said that 3 million dollars will go into the budget, or that means that 3 million dollars will go up against the same small businesses, that's one question. And in general, what is the general attitude of the committee on simplified taxation, because now there is a Tax Code in the Supreme Council, and we know that there is no simplified taxation that was previously authored as one of the authors of the State Tax Administration. So what I'm saying is that thousands of entrepreneurs are asking us to keep this simplified system. What's your attitude, your attitude, and your profile committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u94	Regarding the first question of yours. I don't think it's going to be an extra pressure on small businesses, it's just a little bit of a change in the patent process itself. As to the second question. It is a complex question. The simplified taxation of small businesses contributes to its development. And that's why these conditions have to be saved. It's on the one side. On the other hand, the budget code should have equal conditions, and the tax code should have equal conditions for everyone. Therefore, the tax code on the one hand should not aggravate the situation of small businesses, but should, on the other hand, introduce conditions that would be equal for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u95	Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u96	Dear Volodymyr Kirilovich, I have just a question on the substance of this bill, not in fact, but in fact on your committee. You are actually recommending that you do not accept it now, after considering the next Pavlovko - Richterov. I've got a problem with you then. Why the normal procedure is not met. Such bills, which are similar in nature, which are correlated with each other, should be considered at a certain time period, should be introduced at a certain time period, otherwise they simply cannot be introduced and should be tabled together for a session of the Supreme Council. Why we're looking at one bill right now, and it's like we're holding a hole in our pocket somewhere else. We have to look at them exclusively in the complex. So I suggest you withdraw this warning, vote for this bill now, support it, because for me, it is necessary. It's not a small business anymore, it's an average business in this case.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u97	We followed procedures. I gave you an offer from the Chief Executive Officer of the Supreme Council. After that, we discussed the second bill on the committee, and the committee did not support it, but supported this bill, which you also support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u98	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u99	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter, I'd like you to answer this question: there was no basis today for changing the entire text of the law to the "State tax authority" to the "State tax office" is the first. Secondly, what does the committee think, after all, is that 3.9 billion dollars for today's tax debt for VAT return? This concerns all of Ukraine's citizens: we are destroying our business. We destroy -- and we don't ask that question. And the narrow question is that. And under this law, do you think that removing the first part of the sentence, where if several business entities have trading halls for buyers, according to the law, do you know if it is right to delete it? You understand my subtext there.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u100	Regarding the terminology "tax service," "administrative," maybe that's not entirely correct, I agree with you. But there will be a second reading. We can't make a change on the committee until the first reading, as you understand. We present a bill in the way it is presented and express our attitude toward it, whether we support it or not. In general, our attitude is positive, and we have supported it. But about some things, I have a point and there are suggestions. And I think in the process of preparing for second reading, you'll also make your proposals, and we'll make it better. Now in terms of VAT, I fully share your position, I think VAT is the enemy of our economy. And I'm talking about it not only now, but I've been talking about it since he was introduced, and in 1993-1994, I've been constantly opposed to the introduction of this tax, and I've been pushing for the introduction of the sales tax. Well, that's a separate conversation. I can't go into detail right now. In general, the practice shows that the VAT will continue to cause more damage to our economy and so I think that it needs to be eliminated as a class, instead of introducing another tax that would work more effectively. On the rest of the parallel halls and so on, I think there's a context here, I understand what you're talking about, and in preparing for the second reading, that should be taken into account. And the last. We cannot demand of this law what he does not claim. Each bill has its own subject, it's really narrow, I agree with you that we needed to adopt strategic bills, a framework that would affect a larger set of circumstances, but in this case we are dealing with a very narrow issue that is regulated by the bill. So let's think about the perspective of course, but don't hang on to the bill what it can't pull. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u101	Time's up. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich. Next Plastinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u102	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Honorable People’s Deputies, the Highly Suffering Ukrainian People! What the government is asking us to do today, to make changes from three positions, to delete one sentence, to complete the paragraphs, to certainly supplement it, is also important to change the text of the State Tax Authority law into the words "State Tax Office." This is all the government has accomplished by asking such a serious question for a serious consideration of Parliament. This is having a debt of VAT of 3.9 billion in front of businesses and they're sitting quietly. About a billion in advance, so they wanted to report to the presidential election, in advance in the Odessa region, such narratives were tremendous, and no one and no one would lead with an ear. And the tax officers are changing, and no one's gonna answer. So at least write down that Carmazin said that you have preposterous adjectives in Odessa, Odessa, which are colossal adjectives elsewhere. You're corrupting the President, you're corrupting the people of Ukraine, you're hurting all of us. So let's put the projects here that the people need. Not this little projector, where you can definitely fix it and there's nothing to worry about. Although you're removing the sentence very seriously. You write, delete a sentence: If several business entities have trading halls for buyers or provide household services in one separate room, buildings in both parts, except for markets of all forms of property, a special commercial patent is issued only on condition that all the listed subjects purchase special commercial patents. You delete it, then there'll be a suicide in that room, and then there might be abuse. And I don't think it was right to delete it now. So I asked Professor Cherniak a professional question, who understood the subtext of that question and realized what was behind it. I don't want anyone to avoid taxes. Let them pay their taxes. At the same time, if the exceedance goes to a million -- that's obviously normal. And finally, if we're listening to this question, come on, you've heard about national MPs today. In one place, it's the only patent of a thousand with extra bracelets, in the other, 300, 500 and so on. Well, let's just say that somehow the numbers are going to be a little bit different. Because I have this feeling that in some places they just want to kill these entrepreneurs, or let's set a limit on something that can't be set above, so that the local authorities don't abuse it, and to root out what Mr. Yavorowski was talking about, it's corruption, if they're given. Because right now, I'm also looking at that your tax authority is increasing, where it's going to go up, where it's going to go up, where it's going to go up, where it's going to be published by the locals, and here it's all for the tax authorities. In general, I think that with such great remarks you can consider, but demand from the tax service, from the minister of finance completely different approaches to this legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u103	The word is given to Platinum. Next one, Cranville. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! Under the current Ukrainian legislation, the Law on Patenting Certain Business Activities, a special commercial patent, may be purchased by a business entity that does not exceed 1 million dollars a year. The draft law provides for the termination of a special commercial patent in the event that the entity exceeds its business activity at the marginal level in the course of the year. In fact, this is an attempt to review a law that aims to stimulate small business development and to set more stringent conditions for the functioning of a special trading patent mechanism. The draft law is contrary to the provisions of the current law on the duration of the commercial patent for commercial activities and for the provision of household services, which is 12 calendar months. The adoption of the bill will result in a deterioration in the regulatory environment of small businesses. The premature return of a special trading patent will create unnecessary complications in the business activity of the entity. In addition, the timely return by the tax authorities of the excessively paid value of this patent seems highly questionable in view of the domestic practice of returning any sums from the budget. The most famous in this respect is VAT compensation. A special trade patent is applied in the order of experimentation in only 16 cities defined by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers decree of 8 June 1998 under the heading 826 "Approval of a list of areas where a special commercial patent is applied in the order of the experiment" and generally Ukrainian in the full sense of that word cannot be considered. So the possible effect of not allowing the budget to be lost, which as an argument in the explanatory note to the bill, will be minimal. Thus, both fiscal and regulatory effects appear questionable when the bill is adopted. Another point that would be appropriate to provide for a clear and legal mechanism in the event that the scope of the goods of work, the services of an enterprise entity that has acquired a special commercial patent, would still exceed 1 million dollars per year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u105	Thank you. Taras Cranville, next up is Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u106	Dear Chief! Deputies! I am convinced that this law is still to be passed. Because we have to move gradually to the market environment. Obviously, we're still going to have to keep a certain period of time of such, maybe rudimentary, maybe useful things as, let's say, simplified taxation systems, special patents, etc., but still, if we want to develop normal full-fledged competition so that businesses that are already on their feet can still pay taxes differentiatedly, rather than relying on certain amounts that allow for some abuse, we have to go towards that direction. I see in today’s system that is functioning without the functions of this law, also the basis for very serious abuses. And that's why I think that this law is necessary, for example, an enterprise that knows whether an entrepreneur knows that it's going to have profits over this million, much more than 5-6 million, and a certain tax officer who also knows very well that an enterprise with all the data will have much greater profits, this entrepreneur gets a suitable patent, then at some point it can't be interrupted, and there's what method of tax cooperation with an entrepreneur, of course. In this case we're essentially playing a normal competitive environment, I think that's good. As for the second part of the bill, I don’t understand at all the essence of the circular commitment or the circular commitment on commercial patents that was provided for entrepreneurs. It's a sale. It's like to me, it's just a rudimentary form, it needs to be removed peacefully. We should definitely move towards a normal competitive environment. The only thing I absolutely agree with my colleague Karmazin is that this law is fragmented, it needs to be voted on, but if the government is not going to make good, powerful, strong legislative changes about what we're going to have in the tax field, we're not going to have any sense. And one more thing. The only thing that's warning me about this law. For entrepreneurs there is a need to communicate more frequently with tax services, much more often, and I'm afraid that as long as we have heroes who still have these masks-shows that terrorize entrepreneurs with unwarranted fines, for example, while this law may pose a danger. But I believe that both this law and the simplified taxation law will gradually be translated into a normal competitive basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u107	Anatoly Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u108	Anatoly Seminoga, Ukrainian Social Democratic Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman. In 2001, a fine law was passed on patenting certain types of entrepreneurial activity that performed and performed a good function today. First of all, this law allowed for the simplification of small and medium-sized business taxation, allowing for the removal of many aspects of entrepreneurial activity, especially in the field of trade and services. It created a huge number of jobs that allowed social tension to be lifted. Therefore, to my deep conviction, interference with the activities of the law should be limited. What the Cabinet of Ministers is offering us today in its changes and additions. One proposal, if the marginal level of delivery of goods and services exceeds 1 billion dollars per year, is proposed to remove the patent from entrepreneurs. In my opinion, this is essentially wrong, because you could propose other mechanisms, such as a differential taxation mechanism, or other mechanisms for correcting this situation, these are problems that exist in the application of this law. Because the bill does not solve the problem, but it creates new problems. First of all, the tinning of small and medium-sized businesses. The mechanism for the Tax against Unfavourable Entrepreneurs and additional reporting, quarterly reporting, if this bill refers to only 3 million dollars of budget coming, it is better for me to leave the bill as it is. So I'm proposing a project in this form to be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u109	Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk, are you insisting on the performance? Yes, of course. Microphone, please, Onichuka Mikli Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u110	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mikola Onischuk, faction of the political party of industrialists and entrepreneurs and the "Trouble Ukraine". Dear colleagues, it is natural that all those who today take a stand in the field of protecting the interests of industry and entrepreneurs are left behind in the legal provisions of Ukraine, which allow them to apply simplified or other taxation mechanisms. At the same time, it must be understood that we should strive to build a fair relationship between the State and, in particular, the public interest it represents and the private interest, including the subject of entrepreneurial activity. And from this point of view, I think that the approach of the drafters of the bill in this sense should be taken more positively than negative, because, in fact, abuse, such as exceeding the spending limit, i.e. the volume of financial transactions, makes it impossible to apply normal taxation systems. Then I would support this bill as a basis. At the same time, it seems desirable to work more closely on the issue of the patent’s return mechanism, as well as compensation for overpayments due to the fact that the patent is not used during this period. Projected by the bill. Right here, it seems to me that if the drafters are offered more precise regulation in the second reading, then the entrepreneurial environment can adopt this law. Also, as a measure of compensation for restrictions imposed by this law, it could be proposed that the Cabinet of Ministers extend the application of this patent not only to cities that are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers, but also to all other areas where this patent can be applied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u111	Mikhailo Vasilovich Melniczuk, please. Briefly, please, in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u112	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, I took it for granted. The notorious bill that was passed by the national deputies of Onischuk and Melniczuk on the judiciary of Ukraine, the addition to this law, was not reached on Wednesday. I realize that it's important to be foreign, foreign, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u113	Let us not waste time and consider it today. Come on, that's it. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u114	Please, come on, please, take a look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u115	All right, let's move on. The question is closed. The vote will take place in accordance with the Rules. Let's move on to the next one. draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the increase of responsibility for the illegal residence of foreigners in Ukraine. First Deputy Head of the State Committee for the Protection of the State Border, Šišolín Pavel Anatoliyovich, will be reported.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u116	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs! The draft law was drafted on behalf of the President of Ukraine and is designed to amend Ukraine's legislation to increase responsibility for the illegal stay of foreigners in Ukraine. This is a new bill aimed at carrying out comprehensive measures to counter illegal migration in Ukraine. These previous legislative acts, which were adopted by the Supreme Council of your calling, are working well enough for today. I'd like to give you just one example of a law that's been passed about the liability of airlines and that works for less than a year. The state’s budget has already received fines of more than 2 million dollars. The main task of the Ukrainian bill is to increase administrative responsibility for illegal foreign residence in Ukraine and to improve the procedure for the implementation of these administrative offences. Ukraine's draft law provides, firstly, for amendments to the sanctions of articles 203, 204, 205 and 206 of the Code on Administrative Offences to increase administrative fees in the form of fines. The other one. Amendments to Article 204 concerning the establishment of administrative responsibility for infringements by officials of enterprises, institutions and organizations, irrespective of the form of ownership established in the course of admission to foreign training. I would like to point out that this is a new norm that is being added, an acceptance for the education of foreigners and noncitizens. I'd just like to comment on why this position is happening. Today, more than 40 foreign citizens who have come to education in Ukraine are outside educational stations and we are forced to catch them periodically in the Western border of our country in an attempt to illegally cross the State border into Western European countries. The law also provides for some editorial changes to article 206, where the administrative responsibility of citizens for granting residence to foreigners and stateless persons for violating established rules of residence is provided for. There are also amendments to article 222, with a mark 1 on the granting of powers to the Border Guards to deal with administrative offences related to violations by foreigners and stateless persons of residence in Ukraine, transit through Ukraine, and which have been identified, I stress, at the points of entry through the State Border of Ukraine when leaving Ukraine. The need to give the Border Guards such powers is due to the fact that we have been assigned a task and it is confirmed by the new law that you have adopted on the State Border Service, it is the registration of citizens' passports when crossing the State Border, and we very often have to face the departure of foreigners who violate the terms of the territory of Ukraine that have changed status or other violations of Ukraine's immigration legislation, and we cannot involve them in their respective responsibilities. There are also amendments to part two of article 255 regarding the granting of the right of office to persons of foreign forces to make protocols on administrative offences that are provided for in the articles I have highlighted. I would like to point out that, as of today, the foreign troops have the right to be granted to officials under Article 202, under Article 204, under Article 285 with a mark of 10. So this is not a new practice for our cross-border office. Further, all these protocols under articles 204, 205 and 206 in accordance with article 257 will be referred to the authorities, the officials of internal affairs, who are authorized to continue to deal with matters of administrative misconduct. However, I would like to point out that, given that the Supreme Council, you, on April 3, passed a law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts, in view of the adoption of the Law on State Border Service, which has already amended the Code of Administrative Offences, in particular article 221 of which I referred to it, as well as article 255. We suggest that the project be accepted as a basis and taken into account when considering the second reading. At the same time, I would like to say a few words about a bill that will be considered after me, which is the national MP Marcus Mary Andriyvni. It differs only in some positions. This is in the introduction of a new article 206 marked 1, but in our bill it is fully foreseen in article 206, and also in the level of fines, according to some articles of increase, in some articles of reduction, as well as in the order of consideration. It is suggested that the people’s deputies, Maria Andriyevna, examine them through the courts. But the practice of today's review due to the absence of specialized administrative courts, in fact, all the protocols that come together and come to the courts, they don't make final decisions that cause substantial damage to the completion of the offence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u117	Will there be questions to the reporter besides Carmazin? Please, Vitaly Shibko. Of course, the third, if it does.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u118	Vitaly Shibko, Ukrainian Socialist Party I'd like to ask you something else. First. We know from where the border comes from, illegal emigration is the border of Russia-Ukraine. I want to ask you, how is the readmission agreement from this country going today? Because it's very important today. And the second question. I won't be speaking anymore, even though I'm written there to shorten our time. Now you're making changes, and at the same time there are two responsibilities for the same violation. First. Article 331 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine works, it is a criminal offence for the same acts, and Article 204 of the Criminal Code on Administrative Violations. So you're making some changes today in order to correct that flaw, I'm going to call it that, although it's not a legal terminology, about the parallel existence of two articles for one and the same violation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u119	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the main problem that today is from the point of view of migration flows to Ukraine is the Ukrainian-Russian-Ukrainian-Belarus state borders, where the largest number of illegal migrants enters Ukraine. We have participated, the State Committee, in the work of the relevant draft agreements on the Administration, both the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus. Today, these documents have been processed in principle, and the competent government authorities that deal with this issue are considering it. It was submitted to our colleagues a few years ago. We have been directly involved and realize that without the adoption of this law, the problem of migration policy and its state regulation will virtually be impossible.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u120	Okay. Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u121	As for the second question. 331 is a criminal responsibility and 204 is marked 1, so we've already settled them today with the corresponding texts. There is a difference in criminal responsibility and there are changes that will apply to essentially administrative responsibility. We've settled this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u122	Mikhailo Melniczuk, please. It's coming down very tight.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u123	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear reporter, Paul Anatolyovich! Would it not affect the adoption of this bill by the 7 million Ukrainians who are now abroad and how the European States react to the fact that 7 million of our citizens are outside the law in these states but are forced to be there? And there are several thousand of us who are about to flee from the country to the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u124	Thank you, for your question, I answer this for foreigners, not Ukrainian citizens who are. Only foreigners and non-citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u125	Vladimir Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u126	It didn't affect anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u127	Nigga, please, instead of speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u128	I have doubts as to the adequacy of the changes that we are making in the imagination and the acute problems of foreign residence, the illegal stay in Ukraine. Do you not think that the emphasis should be shifted from the problem of being, although it is very important and the responsibility needs to grow, to the problem of illegal entry into Ukraine. That is, linking, first of all, the problem of being caught in order to prevent illegal migration into Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u129	Then he came and didn't fall.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u130	Thank you for asking. Of course, the problem can be solved in the areas you were talking about. First of all, create state conditions to prevent these foreign citizens and people without citizenship from entering Ukraine, and yet, if they do, they must be criminal and administrative. Believe me, what we're proposing here is a way out of practice what needs to be done today really in order to take the first practical steps.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u131	Taras Cranville, last one. And he's going first.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u132	Tell me how you'll appreciate the fact that there are a number of points in your bill that can be brought to justice without guilt. Yes, the educational institution legally accepts the training of a foreigner, then you catch this foreigner on the western border, the educational institution responsible. A person drives a foreigner straight into a car, without any authority or legal sanctions to check him there for legal or illegal status in Ukraine without hiding, without anything, without evil intent, evidence of evil intent, you can delay this car, you can fine the driver. I'm sorry, I think the law requires a clear point of evil intent, some evidence of, say, hiding in cars and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u133	I would like to pay attention -- thank you for asking -- to point out that, today, a student in the western border is guilty because he is using the form of a minimum wage to enter the territory of Ukraine for education. It is used as a means of legal entry into the territory of a country with subsequent departures to Western European countries. Thus, such a form of responsibility is positive. And we're already using this practice with the colleges, their direct responsibility. This year alone, they were sent by dozens of so - called students. With regard to a driver who drives a citizen, our jurisdiction is extended to areas, controlled border areas and a border strip, where there are appropriate regime restrictions and the person we are already involved in responsibility is indeed carrying them, as it was intended to bring them to the state border.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u134	Okay. Time's up, please sit down. The word is given by the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Marcus Maria Andriyovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear Hennady Andriyovich, dear colleagues! Both bills, Bill No. 2081 and 2081, were discussed by the Legislative Security Committee on amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences to increase administrative responsibility for violations of the rules of residence of foreigners and stateless persons in Ukraine. And it's recommended that we take the first reading of Bill 2081 with the "direct" badge. In addition, the same bill was discussed at the European Integration Committee, where it was also recommended that it be adopted as a basis in the first reading. Taking into account all the comments, the additions that were made at the committee meeting. The purpose of the bill is to improve the state responsibility of foreigners to non-citizens for illegal stay in Ukraine, as well as Ukrainian citizens and officials for assisting foreigners and stateless persons in illegal stay in Ukraine. The implementation of the bill does not require any additional expenditure from the State budget, but increases in the fines imposed by the need to effectively resist the formation of the black market in the provision of services in the area of illegal migration. The adoption of the bill will allow for the improvement of the functioning of internal affairs and State border authorities in the area of combating, combating and combating illegal migration. Please accept the prescribed draft in the first reading as a basis to be able to take into account all the comments, additions and suggestions that were made during the discussion of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u136	Will there be questions? Dear colleagues, Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u137	I'm with respect, but please don't stress, because the microphones were a little quiet. And what comments were there, please emphasize.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u138	2081 with the "direct-1" badge was supported by a committee. Both committees, the Committee on Law Enforcement, and I was also in the process of discussing this bill in the Committee on European Integration. Since the European Integration Committee believes that this bill is necessary and that it does not conflict with European law. However, some comments were made and should be removed when preparing the bill for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u139	Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u140	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Mary Andriyevna, I thank you very much for drafting the basic bill, and I have studied it very carefully and I would like to ask you. Obviously, you asked the question in preparation: Why is article 322 of the Criminal Code, a criminal code that provides for criminal responsibility for facilitating the transfer of persons across the state’s borders by providing funds or removing obstacles, including transportation? Why is it rarely used? Why do we not want to obey the law? We thought for a long time in the past when we accepted this article, taking it very seriously. Why do we not now want to require law enforcement? I'd like to ask you. And another question. What's important? You didn't say anything about the differences between the government bill and your bill. I see them, but they don't see the national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u141	Dear colleague, thank you so much for asking. Hence, regarding the nonapplication of article 322, the question is not as much to me as to the law enforcement agencies that would be obliged to apply it. Why isn't it being applied, let's say, more objectively, I don't have that kind of power. As to how does this bill, which is proposed by the government, differ? The previous reporter responded comprehensively. During the analysis of the bill, which was proposed by the government regarding, say, the differences that are in my esteemed colleagues, the bill means that I have been individually introduced 206 cf., article 206, supplemented by the Code of Article 206 c., concerning the illegal transport of aliens to Ukraine, and more, say, detailed analysis of this article. More detail is proposed than the administrative responsibility of transporting foreign and stateless drivers to violate established rules of residence of foreigners and stateless persons in Ukraine. That is, a broader range is proposed to apply administrative legislation to carriers. In addition, the reporter said that I had proposed a slightly different approach to sanctions under articles 203, 204, 205, 206. In addition, there were proposed changes that would now need to be removed in the drafting of the 222th Bill and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u142	Okay, that's a second reading. All right, Maria Andriyevna, very well, sit down, please, thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. It's a good word. Next School. Everybody knows.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u143	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen of the People, the distinguished Hennaday Andriyovich, the great many-suffering Ukrainian people! In just two years, border guards detained 10,000 illegal migrants who wanted to enter. Ten thousand, and at this time 6 million Ukrainians have gone abroad. It's such a sad statistic, but it's even sadder when we multiply the money that we need to take out each of these 10,000, and the border guards are costing, in the whole state of Ukraine, about $1,000, 5,000 dollars, you can imagine, to get one of these illegals out of our budget, you have to spend it out of our budget. On the average, in rural areas, the milkmaids now receive 600 dollars a year, this foreigner comes out of the gold! So we have to cover the border, cover the road. In my question, I thanked Mary Andriyevni Marcus for preparing a basic bill for his first reading. It really covered the holes that the Ukrainian government was supposed to cover. And speaking here, Paul Ivanovich Shisholin supported the government bill, but for the border guards, the Marcus Bill is much better. There is a better bill for Ukraine itself. Because there is also the illegal transport of foreigners 206 prima. and 206 violations of the procedures for granting housing, transportation and other services to foreigners, stateless persons. Look what's going on in Kiev. Illegal immigrants today rent apartments, live here and then commit crimes, and then they have automatic weapons and drugs and everything. They have flooded all the markets today, and we now call it either the Vietnamese market or the Afghan market, or there will be other markets. Or Chinese markets. With regard to why they do not comply with the requirements of Law 332, 331 articles of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which place the responsibility of what they carry across Ukraine. But they're not done because of the lack of political will in the state, because no laws are being implemented. That's why it's a matter for the IMF and the Attorney General's Office, where the Attorney General's College is now taking place at this time. And I'd like them to ask me why these questions aren't solved. And then the prosecutors in the border areas will be punished for still failing to comply with the law. I think we should adopt the Marcus bill in the first reading and then our proposals. But it is urgent to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u144	Andrew Schlell, next is Schulga.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u145	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Ukrainian National Assembly Of course, I would also like, as committee colleagues, to stress support for the bill proposed by MPs and MP Marcus. And I want to confirm once again, although the audience is as small as ever, but I want the radio audience to hear that the quality of the bills that the MPs are preparing is higher in order than the quality of the bills that both the President and the Cabinet of Ministers are preparing. If the President is preparing some kind of legislation, it's not surprising, but it's surprising when a structure is preparing for itself an inadequacy law. And I would like to highlight a few aspects. Well, first of all, what foreign citizens are entering here illegally is that this is a ridiculous, completely transparent border between Ukraine and Belarus. And the West, if it wants the market not only to flood Kiev, but also Paris, London, and Berlin with illegal foreign citizens, it is necessary to invest in the development of the Ukrainian border. Then we will definitely stand on the side of intactness and Ukrainian territory, and Europe in general. But I would like to emphasize some other aspects. I am particularly representing the border district and I know what conditions I would like to have a representative of the border. Mr. Carmazin, are we preventing you from communicating there? But I'd like to. Pay attention. Yeah, I've already made him a note, but what about here?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u146	I left his words for the next week.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u147	Yes, it is. So I would like you to know that the heavy burden lies not only on the frontiers that hold those who have illegally crossed the border but also on the local budgets, but also on the local budgets, and they need to be fed. I've been on hold, I've seen conditions, they've got sports halls there to keep foreigners and stuff. And here we have to decide urgently and immediately. And that's why the bill proposed by the MP is, first of all, he takes away more questions and he's doing more clearly what you're doing. In particular, I would like to stop at a short point. Automobiles are prepared in advance for the transport of aliens, so how can they be determined? Markus ’ law regulates this better and many other aspects, whether you drive or not, here you have to be clear, trying to break the border to move an illegal citizen across the border. All of this is a clear norm. And the last. If this law goes into effect, the ordinary thing is, we don't have that many foreigners, but they will. As long as we don't close the long eastern border, we'll have problems in the west all the time. The local budgets of Western border areas will continue to suffer. Because they're sitting here, feeding our peasants, feeding our bordermen, not eating themselves. So right now, I'd like you to figure out the law of the National MP for yourself, and we'll get him here soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u148	Is there a Nicholas Shulga? From Krutz's place, please, for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u149	Nicholas Crutz. Ivano-Frankivsky, "Our Ukraine" faction. Actually, what I would like to say is that the problem of illegal migration is of course extremely relevant. The bill, which gave to Derzkomkordon, took into account only the responsibility for violating the border crossing and staying foreigners in Ukraine, but another problem remained outside the framework of the bill. This is the responsibility for the illegal transfer of aliens to Ukraine. This problem, by the way, is very common among government inspectors. That's why I think it's necessary. When preparing this bill for second reading, solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u150	From the place of Taras Cranville, very narrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u151	Dear colleagues! I have a warning about this law. Actually, of the two laws, the MP's law of Marcus is much better, it's definitely better. I read both laws very carefully, and I am not satisfied with the answers given to me because it is not written there clearly in the border area; it is not written there clearly about the things that can bear witness to the truly evil intentions of people who provide services to foreigners; it is not written there that are clearly responsible for these very educational measures that have legally taken place, legally, while enduring their legal duties. I'm convinced that we can adopt this law in the first reading, because, in fact, we need to help the border clearly and border forces, particularly the last point in both laws, is very much needed, but we need to do everything we can not do to make this law another method of pressure on people who really are not guilty of anything. There is an evil intention, it must be punished, but this evil purpose must be proved. The law has these latrines that will give anyone the opportunity, and I'm going to deny to the representative of Derzkomcardon, anyone for the basic transportation of a foreigner to punish. Because you're picking up a foreign terrorist who speaks English perfectly, in our dress, but you're already breaking the law to some extent. You give a home to a person, you have to think very seriously, too, because the registration is still unwritten, but it's already going to work here under this law. So once again, the illegal crossing of the border and everything related to it must be punished and, I think, not administratively, but exclusively criminally, and all cases must be watched so that it is not without blame.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u152	Okay, thanks. The time to consider this matter is exhausted. Let's get some advice. Mikhailo Melniczuk suggested that we consider the question of the system or move on to a different one? We've got a lot going on. Please tell me more than forty people. Please, Ivan Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u153	Thank you. Ivan Stojko, 166 constituency, Ternopolishte, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of "Our Ukraine". Dear fellow MPs, distinguished voters! Now, there are so-called discussions on the amendments proposed by the President to the Constitution of Ukraine, but unfortunately, this voluntary and compulsory discussion is of a declarative nature. Most people are afraid to say what they think and, as they say, no one will ever hear in society, for the media are clearly filtering the minds of the people. All of this reminds us of the times of Leonid Illich when we discussed "Little Land" or "Rebirth." Only in the Supreme Council did the island of freedom remain where the opposite opinion can be expressed. So I, my fellow countrymen, have the honour to bring to you the address of the Ternopil City Council to the councils of all levels, to the Ukrainian people. Reference. "According to the decree of the President of Ukraine, a national discussion is being held on the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine." We believe that the real reasons that led the President of Ukraine to initiate constitutional reforms are: first. The imminent defeat in the presidential election of today’s presidential power in the next presidential election. Trying to distract people from important socio-economic and political problems. Next. Attempting to mislead people through pseudo-democracy, manipulating legislation through referendums. We believe that the real purpose of the President's political initiatives is the desire to continue its mandate until 2007 because of the proposal to hold the President's elections and the elections to the Supreme Council at the same time. The weakening of the legislative branch of power through the establishment of a bicameral parliament. On the basis of the above, we urge the President of Ukraine, the Presidential Administration, the Ternopil Regional State Organization to stop the political experiment on the Ukrainian people, political violence and total falsification in organizing the so-called Presidential talks, the Supreme Council, the Council of All Levels in Ukraine to support our appeal and to speak for the preservation of the current political system in the state for holding the presidential elections in 2004 and for the elections to the Supreme Council in 2006, on a proportionate basis." Dear Ukrainians! I believe that the feelings of patriotism and the loyalty of democracy will not allow us to accept the obvious indulgence of constitutional rights and freedoms. And labor teams, rural, rural, urban, district, and district councils have supported the appeals of the Ternopilans and have the authority to listen to the will of the people. Do not be afraid to tell the truth about the real intentions of Leonid Kuchma and his environment. In unity, our strength. Let's say "No!" Today's regime and "Yes!" tomorrow's democratic Ukraine. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u154	Thank you. Ivan Mihovich. Next Slatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u155	Thank you. Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction. Stabbing. Honorable Hennadija Andriyovich, colleagues, voters, next week, and April 24 is two hundred years old from the date of his birth. This Jubilee was legally introduced into the UNESCO calendar by the Educator, the educator, the researcher, the writer, the publisher, the public figure, it is difficult to find a field of knowledge and creativity, a social practice that is not affected by Tynovich. Over time, we are more aware of his greatness and courage as an educator, a humanist, a fighter for the liberation of fellow countrymen from the colonial oppression of the Austro-Hungarian Empire and the brotherly union of men of goodwill. We do not cease to be engrossed in a man who, despite the spiritual dream and the self - control of officials, managed to rise above the source of complex events and processes on both sides of the Carpathians, to look at the image of this better coming one, and in a patriotic procession of the one conscious fellow tribesmen: Ocarpathian Russians, let go of the deep sleep! This Spiritual Call has become the anthem of my ancestors, and today it inspires contemporaries to defend national honor, civil rights and freedoms. Today, those words are wicked to all Ukrainians, for they tell us not to be silent, to be patient, to wait, to decide our own fate. Again, as on the day of the bourgeois revolutions, defend national interests and human dignity. The clergyman was and remains a model of self - devotion, honest service to the people of his homeland, unselfishness, and orderliness, which is lacking in today’s demoralized Ukrainian society. Remember that he awakened and urged his contemporaries to national self - awareness and self - validation along with his brothers in the East, in Russia alone, in the self - assuming, diverse Slovenian world. Let us not be overly obsessive about the contradictions and mistakes of spiritualism in political or linguistic matters. Above all, he was a fierce patriot of the Russian people, consistently opposed his social oppression and assimilation of foreigners, giving himself to him as a remnant. Soon there will be various arrangements for the spiritual Jubilee in Zakarpat, Slovakia, Serbia, Croatia, the United States, Canada, and other lands. We hope that one day and in Ukraine his work will be properly appreciated and published. We believe that the time will come when the Carpathian Skovoroda will take the lead in the ranks of prominent country thinkers and fighters for the worthy place and role of the Slavs in the world co-creation, and it will inevitably lead to progressive social development towards peaceful, rich and democratic co-existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u156	Sergei Slabenko, next Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u157	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! I would like to address today's talk on issues of social importance in the Volin region, and I would like to insist on this issue being discussed by the government. Why, am I asking such a question? During 2002, I constantly appealed to the executive authorities, both local and national, to understand, and how those social issues were resolved, and how in that crossword of various answers I found the real situation on Volina. I learned that the situation in the first quarter of 2003, according to the estimates made, the implementation of the rate-exchange scheme allows us to say that the financial deficit in general in the area will amount to 54 million dollars. A special situation has arisen in the area of culture, with the President's decree defined. announced in 2003 as a cultural year in Ukraine. The previous year - 2002 since 2003 differs from the fact that 400,000 dollars less will be provided for culture in the Volin region. The accounts of the Ministry of Finance for the maintenance of the territorial centres and social assistance offices in relation to 2002, increased in 2003. However, the complex situation with the operation of the territorial centres has arisen in specific areas and cities of district importance, where the local budget figures are determined on the basis of the statistical reporting of social protection agencies. And it turns out that now they're going to be funding less than last year's spending. This situation has arisen, for example, in the Lubomore region, which does not allow the social security of the population to be adequately protected today. The amounts of the State budget subsidy approved by the 2003 local budgets for the financing of social assistance subsidies are now estimated at 675,000 for the purchase of solid fuel and cremated gas. At the same time, such a trend will take place throughout the year, and indicators that are proved only allowing it to say that such assignments are not enough by 75 percent. A special situation has arisen with the Disabled People’s Car Program. I can’t understand how this issue will be resolved today if, for example, it is only planned to purchase fifty cars for disabled people and this will be a problem for all the major deputies who are affected and asked to help resolve the issue of car allocation. And especially. Dear Victor Fedorovich! In connection with the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to further address the financing of the 10th Mine, the Ministry of Economics believes that this mine cannot be built at all in 2003 and does not provide for it. Please personally consider my request and resolve this matter in essence. I ask you personally to answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u158	The word is given to Victor Taran, the next to Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u159	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. First. From 1944 onward, hundreds of thousands of people were relocated to Ukraine. To this day, these people have many and many problems. Hundreds of thousands of letters come to the Supreme Council, asking to be heard, and then making decisions about their problems. A group of national MPs and, personally, Julia Timoshenko, this is from her bloc, we have put in a draft decree to lead the parliamentary hearings on this issue. And yesterday, the presidential factions blocked the decision. I want people to know about it. The government, the presidential factions don't want it, the authorities want to listen to themselves. And that's why there are so many so-called discussions in Ukraine today on the Presidential Proposals under the Constitution, the essence of which is one thing: to continue the mandate of Kuchma specifically by the end of 2006. Kuchma will agree that there will be no two-bedroom parliament, for whatever it is, he is the only one who wants to hold the election of the President and the national deputies and thus automatically Kuchma will be President by the end of 2006, without the elections to continue itself. That's what presidential reform is all about. Next. I'd like you to pay attention to this. Worldwide, there is a normal agreement that some political forces support government under certain conditions. We supported the government programme yesterday. We supported the Government's Programme because there were clear commitments that the government would carry out constitutional reforms in real terms rather than in kuchmiv, the Proportional Elections Act would really be adopted. You can see that as they hugged here, some of the deputies were going, kissing, saying, "Okay, we dropped them." They left the opposition well. So you see the power that lies everywhere, if it lies to us, to the people's deputies that it works with, and every day it looks into the eyes, how does it lie to people? Here is another example of a great lie. The Janukovic government has prepared a draft, a bill according to which the debt owed to investors is not 132 billion, as was acknowledged by all governments, and it commits to repaying people only 20 billion. So people want to steal five times as much money, you know, everything goes, like, tossing people, tossing investors, tossing MPs, the only thing the authorities want to do is save themselves. I want the last one. One sentence, Hennady Andriyovich, because this is very important, I would like people to know that Julia Timoshenko, when she was head of the Committee on Budgets, insisted that people could count on electricity, for education, for learning, and so on. We'll stand on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u160	There can be no other way. The word is given to Yuri Carmazin, next to Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u161	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! Long - Suffering Ukrainian People! The media provided information on the support of the government program by the factions of "Our Ukraine". I mean, that's not true, only half the faction was raped, the other half remained in absolutely normal positions, we took a stand against the position of government, including I, Yuri Carmazin, voted against this criminal government policy. I want to draw the attention of the Ukrainian people, the government and all the MPs, society to what is being done in the area of military reform. In fact, the destruction of the Ukrainian army and the demands of the President of the Supreme Commander, Leonid Kuchma, signed by him, the decrees, orders and additions signed by General Bilokon, the reduction of 150,000 military personnel during the period when the world is in the state of highest military power and Ukraine is in fact at the stage of the war with Iraq, is a sign of crime against the Ukrainian people. A quick, unwarranted reduction of 50-60 percent of the military's fighting potential puts the Ukrainian people at full risk, who are paying taxes to maintain the army, at the very limit of the destruction of the state, the nation and the nation. The issue of the state of the Ukrainian Army is the most important national issue and cannot be resolved under the carpets of the President's Administration. It must be decided by the entire nation and by a popular referendum. Here's what we need to do, Mr. President, in a referendum. The people must know that they will be free or slave to another nation and will feed a foreign army. I think the people will say no to that. No army of the world has ever endured the abuses suffered by the Ukrainian army, 80,000 officers, uninhabited military personnel, funded by 50 percent. With better technologies in the world armed, we cannot calculate in 12 years how much it takes for officers and soldiers to see the Ukrainians just a peaceful sky. We don't know what we want from the army at all. We have only voted in the first reading of the Concept of National Security, we have not accepted the Military Doctrine, while the Russian Federation has adopted both the concept and the military doctrine, and the nuclear doctrine of the Russian Federation, and the doctrine of Russian language, by the way, and the doctrine of the patriotic upbringing of the people. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has taken a decision and approved the army's composition -- it's 310,000, and by 2005 it's going to cut to 275,000. Today, the real number is about 265. Question: "Who allowed himself without the decision of the Supreme Council to reduce the Armed Forces by 45,000. These are our constitutional powers. Because it's nothing but a state crime. The Supreme Council has not yet approved the military doctrine, the non - adoption of the National Security Concept, as has already been decided, except for the illegal reduction of 45 thousand, to reduce another 150. Question: "Who and how will protect Ukraine tomorrow? Who will be held personally responsible for the baseless, groundless reduction in the fighting capacity of the Ukrainian army, the Supreme Commander, the Prime Minister, the Head of the Supreme Council?" I think the Party of Fatherland Defenders is up against this, and we demand that this be counted as a parliamentary request to the President to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u162	Igor Šurma. Next Garmash.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u163	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Respectable Society! I'd like to bring you back to the problems that exist today in culture. John Frank's Lviv Literature and Memorial Museum was created in 1940 in a building where John Franco lived and built. There he was visited, visited, and worked with by Lesia Ukraine, Mikhailo Kotzubinski, Vasil Stefanick, Mikhailo Gruszewski, Sergey Efraemov, and many other Ukrainian cultural actors, as well as Russia, Poland, Germany, the Czech Republic, Slovakia. The museum’s memorial exhibition completely reproduces John Frank’s apartment, including his office of work. This is where the poem "Moses" was written. The value of this memorial exhibition is John Frank’s personal belongings. The museum’s funds now number more than 30,000 units of conservation. Every year, 35,000 people come to the museum, and people come here as if they were a national sanctuary. But for today, John Frank’s home, which has been over 100 years, is in a state of emergency. The wall surrounding the museum is generally in a state of danger not only for visitors but also for the house itself. The real cost of repairs and restoration work is 500 grand. It requires repairs and a house that houses a foundation and exhibition halls of a museum that requires the creation of a literary exhibition. It all needs money. But I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the Presidential Decree of 8 November 2001, "To Honor John Frank's Memory" of the Cabinet of Ministers has been commissioned to develop a plan of action within a period of two months, including the provision of capital repairs to the Lviv Literature Memorial Museum. Since the adoption of the law, time has passed, and the house on the verge of destruction. The decree provides for the creation of new exhibitions in the museums of John Frank in the village of Naguyavich and Krivorovna Ivano-Frankov region. Another problem. The Museum in Nagujevichi was created as the only complex with the Literary Memorial Museum of Writers in Lviv in line with the Council of Ministers’ decree. Thus, the museum of John Frank in Nagivovich had status as the branch office of the Lviv Museum of John Frank for more than forty years. The leadership of the head of the Lviv District Administration in 2001 transferred the site of the Ivan Frank Museum from the balance sheet of the Lviv literary memorial museum of John Frank to the balance sheet of the State Historical and Cultural Reserve of Nagavievich. The decision of the Lviv District Administration is wrong. As a humiliation of John Frank’s figure, he is viewed by creative intelligence and society. By the way, the Ministry of Culture and Arts of Ukraine, in a letter addressed by the then head of the administration, made it clear that the transfer of John Frank to Nagujevich to the National Historical and Cultural Reserve of Nagujewiwich was inappropriate. The Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine asked the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council, to create appropriate organizational committees that would not only report on the ceremony, but also help. [[united]] For us today, one thing is not to call on John Frank to love, but to live for John Frank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u164	Galina Fedorovna Harmash.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u165	Galina Garmash, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I would like to refer to the people of Ukraine and propose to the referendum the question of the renaming of the Administration of the President of Ukraine as the Administration of the Kidalov. President Kuchma, over the years, has overthrown Ukraine and its people as one of the most backward at the standard of living and troubled States. 4 million Ukrainian citizens have passed away in the years of his reign, 7 million young, able to work abroad in search of work, and 150 have committed suicide out of hopelessness. It's a list, in the coffeehouses, of Kuchma's feats. We are now witnessing another “kidalova”: the guarantor has taken the initiative of constitutional reform. It is clear to all but him that it is not reform, but imitation of it, which is intended to solve the problems of Kuchma itself. His reform will give us a “pure” parliament and courts, and the President will become a life-long ruler. If Kuchma sincerely wanted to reform, there would be no need for television or other procedures, since the Supreme Council had a draft amendment to the Constitution last year, which had been examined by the Constitutional Court. The Socialists have consistently advocated and advocated the adoption of laws on elections to the Supreme Council, local councils on a proportionate basis, and then, by creating a basis for democratic change, move towards changing the principles of the work of that authority. But Kuchma doesn't need it, and it includes its administrative resources again. Its initiative is being discussed in public institutions, enterprises, organizations everywhere. Goodies sounds all over the place. And try not to approve, and the manager will take note, and the result will be dismissal. I want to give you just one example in Zaporozhye. There, questionnaires were distributed in the country to discuss constitutional reform. The questions are very clever. Just think, I won't comment, you can immediately say, "Do you agree that the laws and decisions adopted in the U.K. referendum have higher legal power and do not require approval by the authorities and officials? Do you think you need to improve the representation of your region's interests in the Supreme Council by creating its upper chamber, the regional chamber?" It's another trick, another bat. I think that the people of Hmelnicki met correctly yesterday when they said that one question should be put to the referendum: the early termination of Kuchma's power as President of Ukraine. And lastly, yesterday we witnessed, as the “Kinul” opposition of the Prime Minister, the one called “the man of the word”, “the hope of Ukraine”. Oh, that's not true. The Honor Code isn't for him. I testify that I attended a meeting of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, where the Prime Minister said he was a proponent of the Relative Elections Act and the majority faction would give a 40-vote response to support for the Cabinet of Ministers programme. Regrettably, I tell the people of Ukraine: Prime Minister Yanukovic cannot be trusted and bear this in mind in the future presidential elections, where he is clearly going to be a candidate for the Presidents. Once again we have no right, on the map of Ukraine's fate, it is in our hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, there are two women in our room who want to speak if we give them our word and let them go and cook dinner for the men. Is there no objection? And I'll continue our meeting for ten minutes. Please, who do we have? Olga Petrovna Hinzburg, please. Next, Auntie Drought. Please let go, Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u167	Thank you so much, I didn't expect that to happen to me, but thank you very much. I, the distinguished national MPs and honourable voters, Hinzburg, 161 constituency, want to read a letter that asked me to read to the people of Kiev and their problem of enlightening them. It's so common. On behalf of people raised and raised by Soviet principles, and we were all happy when, we people of the war generation, in our eyes, there was a terrible war that brought pain, loss to every family, but at that time we all lived together, helped each other, raised villages, cities from the ruins. Since 1935, I have been writing to a woman, when everything was in memory, in the terrible memory of the outbreak of war and the trenches that are now dead with my mother. And after the victory, my father, the disabled first group, who came home after the victory, was hurt, sick, but alive. We all rejoiced in this extraordinary happiness, I write and weep, and no one went anywhere at the time, asked for anything. We built and raised our country from the ruins of Ukraine, Kiev, only because of such simple loyalties as my father and my mother, the people of Ukraine flourished, were built, factories and factories were running. On top of the mountains, thriving villages, towns, and villages grew up. People rejoiced, sang, worked, and went on to learn. Everyone had an open road, each one, and it was a nation of workers. Let's be simple, but this country has grown up with politicians and politicians like Kuchma, Kravczuk, the Speaker of Lithuania, our socialists like Matvienko, Gnutyuk and so on. At concerts that we could walk quietly then, the state gave them everything. And my children, I give you an honest word, citizens, that we don't have any roofs and muds, dating, gatherings, resting in camps like Artek, Young Guards, visiting groups in the Central Palace of pioneers in Kiev. They received them as a reward for their hard work. Just as Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin once said that his parents did not even know that he had come to learn and where and that we have now done with our country. I want more because so much is written and very important. "Treaty, how should we carry all the necessary funds out of the house to the school that my grandchildren are learning today where to take them. Already, those of old age who carried everything on their shoulders never cried or asked who to turn to? No teeth, no eyes can see, hands are swollen, legs don't go, not to mention clothes that have already been reported, shoes that have completely fallen apart. To the doctor, where do you get the money to go to the doctor? I'm addressing you, distinguished national deputies, and I still have a question that we were living in our family in a three-bedroom apartment, we were nine people, and we didn't see that we bought a cooperative apartment. Now the parents are dead, the children are separated, the money in the books is gone, the books are dead, the books are dead, the two of us, and we are all told that we have the space. I am addressing you, the national MPs, perhaps you do not know that there are such problems in people, so please read this letter and the national MPs may feel sorry for themselves and accept these problems. I, the honourable MPs, and the honourable electors, I mean. The Communist Party, which has not voted in favour of the Government Program, today understands your problems and only in the elections that will be, please, you can rely on its program and its leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u168	Aunt Drought. Next Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u169	Aunt Drought, Kyivishte. Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! For 17 years now, Kyivska has been living under the black wing of a terrible disaster that has ruined the lives of nearly millions of its inhabitants. This is a third of all victims in Ukraine. Despite years past, the consequences of the disaster do not disappear, but they accumulate and require constant attention, and people observed by Chernobyl need social protection. In view of the fact that on April 14 during parliamentary hearings, the main problems of Chernobyl were identified, I want to draw attention once again to just some of them. Maybe I'll do it again, but I'm going to be deeply concerned that the results of the hearings don't remain at the level of human pain and grief before the 17-year-old Chernobyl disaster. And they were strengthened by real decisions and actions. First of all, I have to say this about the meagre financing of measures that relate to the social protection of the affected population. It is widely known that for the past three years, including today’s, only 23 percent of the estimated need is allocated, so it is clearly observed, despite all the measures that have been taken, that there is a tendency to increase debt. If it was 97 million dollars in the area on January 1, 2002, it was more than 130 million by March 1, 2002. In this regard, payments to affected people in areas and cities are made with an 8 - to - 10 - month delay. This trend is particularly disturbing in the face of persistent deterioration in the health of the Chernobyl family, primarily children. In the area, diseases of neoplasms, thyroid cancer, and people with disabilities are rapidly increasing. At the same time, there is a sharp decline in the cost of providing medicines each year. In particular, in today’s year, only 15 million dollars or almost twice as much as was used in the previous year are planned for the benefit of medical care. Catastrophically, there is a lack of funding for the provision of drugs to the liver stations, and the construction of the canceric dispenser laboratory is suspended. Only 1 percent for the needs and only 20 percent for children is budgeted for the recovery of the affected population. On the basis of what has been said, I feel it is necessary to propose to the government. First. Timely allocate the resources of the state budget for 2003 to pay off the arrears of past years before the 17th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster and in general settle the arrears of the victims during 2003-2004. The other one. It is reasonable to replace the aid with an address money to avoid compromising the rights of the affected population. Third. Provide per cent of the budget for housing financing for affected citizens. Four. Back to the review of the Ukrainian National Impact Reduction Program for 2002-2005 and the period up to 2020. Fifth. The government, together with the relevant committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will increase funding for the purchase of medicines for victims at the 2002 level. Funding for the completion of the construction of the Kyiv district cancer dispenser In conclusion, I would like to emphasize once again. Chernobyl is our common misfortune. The result is not enough for one generation. Therefore, all of us need to care for disadvantaged people, seek opportunities to improve their social protection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u170	Mikola Sherschun, next one is Kozakov. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone takes the rules, let's respect each other. You can't do that. Tell me, who didn't take the order? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u171	Mikola Shershun, Ravenshina, Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. Maybe I'll be reprimanded that the question that I'm raising within the state isn't definitive, so you shouldn't waste your time publishing it from this high rostrum. But I am convinced that it is from the solution of these issues that brick to brick builds the future of Ukraine. One of the districts in my 157 district, Bereznivsky, is one of the six radiation - polluting regions in the Plainland, but he has not wasted his demographic potential. And the trend of increasing birth rates here in recent years is stable. For example, in the village of Balashovka, which I will raise, the population growth was only 25 in the past year. These are the children who will later become schoolchildren. However, their constitutional right to receive education has been seriously challenged. The fact is that as early as 1989, the Balash High School, where children from three other villages were taught, was recognized as an accident. And today, nearly 350 students, regardless of health and life risks, are forced to study in an emergency room. Stella is supported by wooden pillars. On the second floor, the floor cracks from the steps, capable, God forbid, any moment of failure. What this can bring to an end is frightening even to imagine. In 1994, Balašovka started building a new modern school for 400 places at the expense of the budget. The total cost of construction is almost 9 million dollars, and so far a little more than a million dollars have been funded. The underdevelopment is over 7 million dollars, the readiness of about 40 percent, the two roofs of the school are erected and covered with roofs, and another is ready to be covered. Obviously, on account of its own sources of funding, it is impossible for this long-lasting, sad 10-year anniversary to be celebrated, not by the district or district authorities. That's why I want to address Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine. I request your personal intervention in the financing of the construction of the school in the village of Balashovka in the district of Equinox. I understand that the budget year has begun, the state budget has been adopted, but there are untapped opportunities for public funding for the social development of the village. And there's more. It would be important and essential that the words made at the Republican Agrarian Council by the Prime Minister of Ukraine say that the reform of the budget should be directed to the administration of the Cabinet of Ministers' decision on the social development of the village itself. Without concern for children, without rural development, the entire agrarian complex will not have a happy future in Ukraine and its people. In an independent state at the threshold of the 21st century, for the happiness of children, we are obliged to do everything possible and, more so, to receive education in proper conditions. Therefore, I would like you to consider my statement to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovič. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u172	Vladimir Puzakov, next to Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u173	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština I have already spoken from this rostrum about the illegal actions of officials in Kirovgrad, but at the request of the barbers, I have no right to remain silent today about the abuse of the service position of the head of the Bobinsky Paradise of Žuchenko. The point is that the area is governed by a person who cares about problems, interests, troubles of the bubrians, a person who thinks one thing, says the other, and does the third. In charge of the area, Mr. Zhuchenko, sitting on two chairs at the same time, the unofficial manager of the PAF-Ukraine region and the heads of the Bobrinetsk Reich, is more concerned with his own problems than the people who are guaranteed to be assigned. Mr. Zhuchenko’s budget and funding are used for the administration. This is because the hospital does not have an elevator, there are no refrigerators in the morgue, and health - care workers are charged with seminars, competitions, district experts’ consultations, and retraining courses. Not better in education, where there is a shortage of textbooks, schools and cities because of the heat cut-off, there was a 15-minute lesson, 90 percent of the preschool facilities are closed, and the premises are destroyed. The crops are not burned, they are not repaired, and their workers have been transferred to 0.5 and 0.25 wagers. For the sake of the Reichs and its heads, the entire agro-industrial complex has been destroyed. The majority of villagers lost land and property and lost their wages. During his leadership, Mr. Žuchenko was not interested in the working conditions of Rheimilitic workers who were deprived of the necessary means of transport, fuel-oil materials for calls, working in a room that had been unrepaired for years, and the investigation department was failing altogether. Local self - government in the area is carried out, not according to the existing law on it, but through the personal will of the head of the regime in all directions of his activity. While all the media in the region are talking about increasing the well-being of its inhabitants, there are no Blackwater, State aid to families with children, subsidies, and residents of a number of villages and areas have been deprived of access to a rally and a rally for three months because of snowfall. Can't we find another way to get the head of the Jacquasse to steal? Of course they do. But for them, the Beetles are just a find, that's their cover. Your Honor, Hennaday Andriyovich, please list my statement as a parliamentary request to Attorney General Piscoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u174	Okay. The word is given to Melniczuk Mikhail Vasilovich. Next, Andrew School. Please, Melniczuka, out of the place. Speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, well-respected voters, respectable people of Ukraine! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine made a statement a month ago about the looting of peasants by grain traders and about the grain market and the price of bread. Yes, peasants today are deceived, robbed, certainly found people, found those who are not in principle not at all guilty, arrested, operated by the Attorney General's Office. And the price of bread, the grain, has jumped, who will deal with the situation? Who will compensate people who are suffering today from rising prices for essential food — bread? On food wheat, prices rose by 77 percent, on "A" grains by 125 percent, high-grade flour 67 percent, living flour by 50 percent. The price of a roasted pound of bread jumped from 30 to 40 percent. Arrest Kozachenko, problem solved? Today, thousands of tons or tons of grain cannot be purchased in Ukraine’s internal market. Where did the bread go, where the grain we now declared worldwide that we were exporters of bread? There isn't! There is falsification, there is the irresponsibility of district government and district government administrations. The Interim Investigation Commission, created by the Supreme Council, will answer Ukraine’s questions about agriculture, grain production, and other issues. But it takes time. Today I'm just talking to all the villagers, and notice where you're being dragged back into the referendums, the constitutional changes, nobody's looking at what kind of trouble you're in today! A couple of pencils for asking questions. I have high expectations that Mr. Dustenko is listening to me, who has always noticed that there is no money in the budget. Then I ask you, Your Honor Peter Alexiyovich, where did the money for the financing of R & D that was created recently? Once again, the Darmoids are said to be on the shoulders of the people! Where were the funds allocated to the Veselic District and State Administration for Automobiles in Novoselica? Bought "Volga" for the head of the Paradise government. These are not isolated cases. I would like to refer to the Minister of Health, the Prime Minister, to the Prosecutor of the Cherniewsky region: to deal with the corruption of the leadership of the Novoseltsky District Public Administration. I now give the word to Mr. Shipk, since I have two Rules - Grzezhev and Winski. How so? That's the way it is. I have two rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u176	Please tell me. No, no, one minute, who was giving it to who?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u177	I've given the word to Shipku, I've got two rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u178	Where did you get the two Rules?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u179	Filthyev and Winsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u180	I don't have a statement. Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to calm down, Mr. President. Your Honor, I'm addressing them first of all because the tradition here is particularly recorded by 49 and I'm gone, and no one listens to those who speak after them. But nevertheless, I would like to draw the attention of those who have stayed here and all the Ukrainians who are listening to the radio right now to hear that on April 24 at 3:45 in Kiev there will be a hearing in the Court of Appeal on March 9th. This will be the session of the Kyiv Court of Appeal. I think 14 political prisoners, they can't hear me right now, but they're going to be told what we remember about them and we know that the country where political prisoners are remains totalitarian. A country where political beliefs hold people in a detention facility as punishment keeps them there. Tuberculosis, a host of other diseases that now have political prisoners, is a punishment for their right to freedom of expression, to exercise civil disobedience within the framework of the Constitution, which was carried out on March 9. No crime, no crime being prosecuted under the current Criminal Code, has been committed by them, which has consistently and unequivocally demonstrated the ongoing judicial investigation. For a year, a court hearing was held, which clearly stated that no criminal acts had been committed, but still, so they did not give the full term but only half. Not all political prisoners will live to a just judgment if it does not take place on April 24. And of course, I'm not going to influence the court, dictate what needs to be done, I'm just demanding a just decision. If this state is totalitarian, I want confirmation to be in the Court of Appeal, if we're talking about changes in the Constitution right now, if we're talking about the democratization of power, at least that's what the guarantor of the Constitution is talking about, which is first of all being violated by it. So I would like to know whether there are political prisoners in Ukraine or not. If they are not available, the appeal court should say on April 24 that they are not present, and all prisoners must be released illegally from the Lukyan prison. And one more to go. Of course, the signs of a totalitarian state are many other things, including the usurpation of power. What's happening now in another part of our Ukraine, I'm representing the border constituency 121. And now there's a so-called customs espouse, and I'd like to emphasize that. The Ukrainian-Polish border and the regional Galician customs office now want to appoint the deputy head of the tax administration, Taras Kozak. Regrettably, a worthy leader of Igonuk was recalled to the so - called promotion to Kiev. And I would like to point out that I am here expressing the will of my constituents. And we will stand for the possibility of law enforcement on the border of Ukraine. The hole won't be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u182	Vladimir Leschchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u183	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. Unlike some majors, I meet quite a lot of Montenegrin voters. They have many painful problems, but the most painful: How can they survive? The veterans ask me to talk more about their poor and needy lives and send letters at the session. Here are just three of them from the small homeland of President Novgorod-Siberian region of Montenegro. Their content is characteristic of the whole of Ukraine: the injustice of pensions and the granting of benefits to veterans. Two letters from a resident of Novgorod-Sversky Many-year-old Yuri Ivanovich and one of his countrymen, Kowalczuk Ivan Zaharovich. Please, Hennady Andriyovich, direct them to respond to Minister Papiev and the head of the State Committee of Danilenko. And now I'm talking to the veterans. Dear parents and mothers, you're used to the Soviet times that she took care of people, you expect it, and you expect it to be bourgeois. It's a waste. She doesn't need you at all. Never since 1994, the president has fought corruption and almost a year has poverty in Ukraine. Some point out that it may be from their own personal standpoint, for in the third term the nation will not choose. And the government isn't yours either, because it's just as temporary as the previous one. There's something we need to do for ourselves. So when you were at the meetings, you said, "Will they give us a pension?" - I said, "Wait, these are going to add." - Some people asked, "When?" - I said, "As soon as the prices go up, it's fast." Meanwhile, prices went up very sharply, and the press office of the Ministers didn't go down for days, and they said they were going to raise pensions on July 1st, but they didn't say they were going to add five, and the prices were already 20. Just like it was in 2000 at Yushchenk's. And here the opposition is amazed. It was only "Our Ukraine" that swayed between the left, which protects the interests of the workers, and the President, that now the socialists with the botovs who supported the bourgeois government yesterday made an outraged appearance, they said, tricked us. Not diletters in politics, they knew what they were going for. And in general, by their actions, they once again let the Communists down, hurt the interests of the people, and undermined their trust. Dear veterans! Please carefully consider your actions when some of you support what is called the Presidential Political Reform, do not refer to his wisdom, for Minister Lavrinovich will soon believe it. Join the Communist Party of Ukraine in the fight for a change in the bourgeois regime. This is the only way to solve all the veteran problems as well as the problems of the entire people of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u184	At the request of 157 national deputies, I am making an announcement about the creation of a union of Orthodox deputies of the Supreme Council. Coordinators: Vadim Litvin, Vladimir Nacional, Vladimir Nechiporuk, Gennady Samofalov, Leonid Grac. The word is given to Šibko instead of Grzezhev. From place to place one minute and then Hydos.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u185	Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Two of these, Hennady Andriyovich. Thesis first. You know, in early April, the whole city was shut off from the water. This is the city of Dnipropetrovsk, you know that more than a million people were there for more time., without water, and this is because our citizens know that the privatization of VAT “Electrodrodniproenergo” is being prepared for today. And she's doing everything for today. I mean, those who are today, the Interpipe, are those who are preparing this privatization, doing everything they can to distribute everything and to privatize this company, the Dniproenergo. So I'm officially asking the Attorney General to start an investigation into why this happened. That's the first one. The other one. This applies to all of us as deputies, and at the end of that week, I had a reception at the Pre-Travensk -- this is the Dnipropetrov region, and here I met with what I asked to give to the meeting room, the mayor did everything he could to keep the halls from giving it. He kind of shut it down for repair and there, really, three chairs were drawn to make it look like it was being repaired and he left himself, he didn't want to meet me, and that's all that matters to us today, to the national MPs. I want to draw your attention to that and to see why it does that. It's doing what's being done here today, what's called Russian's "freeze." This is especially true of the implementation of 43 articles of the mountain law, a law that is not being enforced by the local authorities today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u186	Istvan Geidosh, please. Ladies and gentlemen! Calm down. Be more tolerant of what it is. Please. Everyone wants to talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u187	Election District 72, faction of SDPU. One of the problems faced by our voters was the lack of passport forms for Ukrainian citizens to go abroad. In violation of current legislation, internal affairs authorities are unable to meet the legal requirements of thousands of citizens, which create legal social tensions in society and dissatisfaction with the authorities. This problem is particularly pressing for the Carpathians, where more than 21,000 citizens patiently wait for their queues, paying for their passports in advance. The massive influx of passport applications in Zakarpat is essentially due to the fact that, with the enlargement of the European Union and the acquisition of Hungary's EU membership, this year, the visa regime for Ukrainian citizens' mutual travel is being introduced and the system of issuances for residents of border areas is being halted for years to the internal passports of Ukrainian citizens who granted the right to a simplified cross-border crossing. It is no secret that many Carpathians went to Hungary for temporary work, thus supporting close family, friendly, commercial ties with Hungarians, Slovaks, and Romanians and their ethnic homeland. Given that the migration and visa authorities, working and in a normal manner, faced problems with the absence of the required number of passport forms to travel abroad. I asked the then prime minister of Ukraine in September of last year about how to deal with the foreseeable situation. He was assured that if needed, the Zacarpathian area would be provided with the necessary number of passport banks to go abroad to obtain them at the proper time. However, from day to day, the situation became more critical, and the following statements I made were considered by the Minister of Internal Affairs of the Head of State Treasury of Ukraine, and the answer was that the lack of funding for the Ukrainian polygraph, which owed 18 million dollars for the forms produced and unloaded, did not provide a positive solution. While budget funding of a million and a half million dollars of projected saturation of savings has been allocated to the full, it does not allow the legal requirements of citizens to be met. And literally this week, I received an answer to my request from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. April-April issues will be resolved. The important thing is that it's not just another discount. Deputies! The problem is not limited to the people of Carpathians. I'm expressing the hope that eventually, on whom it depends, they're going to do their best, because people don't understand why, after paying 187 dollars to make a foreign passport, and when they get 372 bracelets, they don't have the money to make passports. I don't know about you, but I can't answer that question. Clearly, such a state of affairs is a gross violation of human rights. And that's why it's hard for me to understand the delay in dealing with the problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u188	The word is given to Stephen Ilkovich of the Cloud. Next Pullibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u189	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Today, there has been an unprecedented incident in the Supreme Council. The chairman of the meeting of the First Vice-President of the Supreme Council, Hennadiy Vasiliev, did not put to the vote my parliamentary motion, which he put to the vote on Wednesday and deliberately reversed the name of the request and that was the main reason why he was not voted in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u190	So tell me, what did you do wrong?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u191	By the name of Hennady Vasilovich, I ask you not to interrupt.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u192	Then tell the truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u193	I'm asking you not to interrupt. You have come out of the legal debate today, not asking questions, but on the other hand, you have grossly violated the ethics of the National MP and the Supreme Council Rules. I am asking the Head of the Supreme Council on this point to direct the issue of the behavior of Hennady Vasiliev to the regulatory committee. And now I want to talk about what he was going to say. Dear friends, honourable voters, there was an interesting event yesterday, in my opinion, a very useful one: on another occasion, an illegal, fraudulent way created by the majority did what she had done -- another time she deceived the naive representatives of the opposition. And these are half-breeds. But perhaps this fact will sober our opposition leaders, leading politicians from the opposition, who now instead of continuing the campaign after the early election of President Kuchma, calling on our voters to do so and realizing that it is the only way to start a change in the political system, only in this way can we get the reinstatement of Ukraine's free elections, because if this does not happen and Leonid Kuchma will be at his post until the election day of 2004, these elections will be falsified and our leaders will have to be very deeply disappointed. But it's half-winning, because it's going to cost Ukraine a lot of money. I would like to urge once again our politicians, those who are opposed, great patriots and not very much, those who love Ukraine, who vote on it and who are silent, who have focused purposefully, have consolidated their efforts to achieve the main -- through the public will of the people to remove Kuchma from power and to hold presidential elections for the term. Only under such conditions can they be honest, transparent, and the people can win. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u194	As for Stepan Ilkovich's statement. Stepan Ilkovich, I have the right to answer what you said today! So, speaking to the Attorney General in this regard, it's like you can go to the League of Nations. And to the League of Nations! You're not asking the right question. You're breaking the law, the rules. You want to push me, push me to court! You're not gonna get away with this. It's not about me, it's about what you know, it's about the court case, and you decide to press me to make another decision. Turn off the microphone! Please, Oleg Pullibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u195	Thank you. Oleg Tagnibok, "Our Ukraine", SNPU. "I'm sorry" -- in this word, the president of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, can put the cross on equal terms between Ukraine and Poland. There is pressure from Polish officials on Ukraine to hold Ukraine accountable for the events of 1942-1943 on Volina. Leonid Kuchma, as a person who was accustomed to ignoring the national interests of the Ukrainian people during his February 13th meeting with the President of Poland, expressed his willingness to apologize on behalf of Ukraine for the so - called cannibalism of 1943. Not only are we aware of this from the scientific tracts and publications in the press, but there are still living eyewitnesses of these events. Not everyone in the Volin family has been told about the Polish bandits, about the actions of the Polish army of the country, which, with the blood of innocent Ukrainians and the ashes of burned bodies, left their mark on Volin and the Netherlands. Volin remembers the bloody actions of the 202nd and 117th Polish "shutschaft battalions". The inhabitants of Bayeva, Cherchits, Philets, Verbeyev, and many other villages and hamlets of Volin are victims of these "glorious fighters". Volin remembers the active cooperation of former Polish settlers with German occupation authorities. At the beginning of 1943, the apparatus of the Occupying Authority in Volina was made up of more than two thirds of former pacifiers and fighters from May to May. Volin remembers a 20 - to 39 - year period of pacification, religious, national and social oppression held by Poland’s official government apparatus. Poland must apologize to Ukraine for the long years of brutal and inhuman occupation. Ukraine should not apologize for the actions of the UPA, which stopped the bloody Wakhanalia of the 43rd year, by dumping all of these platypus, shutzmanshafts, and the armies of the country for the almost original Ukrainian lands. And maybe the Ukrainians should apologize to Poland for Bogdan Hmelnick and John Gont before Russia for the hetmans of Wigotsky and Mazep before the Turks for Kosov, Sirk, before Germany for the fighters of UPA, for all those who have not allowed themselves to be robbed and destroyed by the Ukrainians, so which former invaders we have yet to apologize to. The social-national party of Ukraine, like the entire Ukrainian people, remembers the famous pages of Ukrainian history. We are proud that the UPA was born on Volina during the turbulent years, able to fight with the German and Polish invaders, became involved in the fight against the godless Communist regime. Ukrainian soldiers did not fight under Cracow or Warsaw; they protected their homeland. According to a report by the head of the Volin organization SNPO Anatolia Vittieva, the residents of Volina are outraged by the arrival of President Viktor Medvedczuk's chief executive and his anti-Ukrainian position in the daily newspaper. I want to turn to power. Before planning to place various monuments in the center of Lucca, people must be consulted. And the last. He asked a friend, Comrade Carmazin, to report that a parliamentary union had been formed in the Supreme Council of "Ukraine-Taiwan" and that Karmazin and Mirizsky had been elected co-heads. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u196	Thank you. The word is given to Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko. Next to the Roadrunners.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u197	Basil Onopenko, head of the Ukrainian Social Democratic Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been approached by the Council of Judges of the Kharkiv Region for gross violation by officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the City of Kharkiv of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine to ensure the independence of judges in the city of Kharkiv. In particular, the judges note that in the course of the separate investigations carried out by the prosecutor of the town of Kharkiv on a criminal case committed against the judge of the District District Court of the city of Harkov Fedosenka and the deputy head of the Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Borrodin, there are several cases of humiliation of the honour and dignity of the judges and other officers of the court, unlawful search, seizure of documents, including court decisions, violation of article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges, other illegal acts of the prosecutor's office of judges are carried out. The statement states that the deputy prosecutor of the city of Harkov Kovalenko, who is a party to the Doutian’s claim regarding the election of MPs to the Kharkiv City Council, is in charge of the investigation group and is conducting investigations into the criminal cases involved. Judges point out that Kovalenko acted harshly in the district court, threatened judges, and treated the judicial system as a whole. In addition, the deputy prosecutor of Harkov’s city removed the statistics on cases and documents from Judge Borodin’s personal case. Already, I have been informed, literally recently, that on March 28, 2003, when a court hearing was held on behalf of Court Secretary Marianco, who complained about the illegal actions of this prosecutor, Kovalenko threatened in court, acted in an unworthy manner as a prosecutor. Thus, this indicates a deliberate execution of independent judges. who have made legal decisions on specific matters. I consider this statement to be a parliamentary request to the Attorney-General and I would like to refer to him that, given the extreme importance of the matter that has been violated, which directly relates to the provision of constitutional principles for the functioning of the judiciary, the exercise of justice, and pursuant to article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies and the Ukrainian Procurator's Law, I ask the Attorney-General to take under his personal control the examination of the facts and the results of the matter of bringing to justice those responsible for the violations of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine of the Public Prosecutor's Office of Harkov. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u198	The word is given to Droguncs Sergey Ivanovich. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u199	Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people who are left here with a man of 10 in the hall! I'm changing the subject of my speech and what I'm about to say, I'm just going to say to Hennady Andryovich. No one can hear me anymore, because the broadcast is off. You know, we can be heard outside this room by 2:00 today. And so, first question. I'm talking to Hennady Andryovich. The first question is about the legal and, more precisely, the legislative field of Ukraine. Today it has a mosaic, eclectic, masculine character. What's not in this field. Think back to the decrees of Leonid Danilovich Kuchma 1992-1993. There are now dozens of such decrees. And isn't it nonsense that the Supreme Council amends the Kuchma decrees? We know where these decrees led our people. There are decrees that have the power of the law, there are our laws. In a word, it's not in this field. I'm asking you, Hennady Andriyovich, because it's in your jurisdiction to initiate a timetable for the Supreme Council to fully pull out of this legislative field any other acts other than the laws adopted by the Supreme Council. It's time to end this nonsense. The second question that I'm also referring to your competence and the authority of the Supreme Council as a whole is the rights of deputies. I'm not talking about the rights of the people that there are no rights, no political, no socio-economic rights, no people. And what's more, they don't have national MPs, they won't give you a word, so they took the Rules down to 3 minutes, which was before 5-10 minutes, now 3 minutes. Now you can speak to MPs on such a fundamental issue as the Government's Activity Programme for only 20 minutes. What, though, can be said in 20 minutes to 450 deputies who all agree on such questions? Well, a lot of other examples, I just don't want to take up your time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u200	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich, very good questions you raised. The word is given by Levko Grigorovich Lukjanenko, please Levko Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u201	Deputy Lukyanenko of the Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor. Ladies and gentlemen, your head. I would like to say that our President has commissioned Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovic and the Kiev City Head, Alexander Omelchenk, to consider the issue of the production and transfer by Ukraine in May 2003 as a gift to the city of St. Petersburg on the occasion of his 300th anniversary of a copy of the sculpture of Russian Emperor Alexander II. The following is the report: “Ukraine will participate in the 300th anniversary of St. Petersburg, as agreed by the Governor of the Russian northern capital Vladimir Yakovlev and the Secretary of State of the Government of Ukraine Vladimir Yatsuba. In particular, organizational matters related to the delivery and placement in St. Petersburg of a copy of the statue of Russian Emperor Alexander II have been resolved. The solemn transfer of the monument to the city will take place during the visit of the official delegation of Ukraine in May of this year.” So, the honorable listeners, who is the emperor, and what has he done, and what does this do to our Ukraine? To mark the emperors, to mark those who have strangled Ukraine for 340 years, let's make a copy of Hitler's statue and give it to Berlin, let's do other things like that. Where our dignity is, where our self-esteem and national dignity are. How can we honor the city of St. Petersburg, which is built on the bones of Ukrainian Cossacks? You know, when Peter the First broke Zaporezka's net, we took out 20,000 immediately, and then about 20,000 more goats. And they took it out in those Finnish swamps, and there they were, and they'd lay bones, rolling wood and bridged the place where they built St. Petersburg. With regard to Alexander the Second Emperor, this emperor was especially marked by the active conduct of imperialist politics. It was he who finally conquered the Caucasus and Central Asia, that he signed the Valuyov circular, that for his reign was the loyal Order of the Amish and both of these decrees, that one prohibited that the Ukrainian language, as never before, was not and cannot be, and the Em decree prohibited the use of Ukrainian culture at all. As can be noted, such events have to do with the destruction of Ukraine, our culture. And with everything that can only cause us sadness and great regret. Indeed, the authority that marks such dates is actually the occupying authority. By this celebration, it shows that she has nothing Ukrainian in her mind, that she is homosovetic, which essentially divides imperial politics and is thus an occupation power in Ukraine. I'm really sorry we have that kind of thing. I'd still like the President and his team to come to terms with this disgraceful action after marking the 300th anniversary of the capital of the Russian Empire, which is built on Cossack bones, and the emperor, who is marked by man-hatred and Ukrainianism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u202	Anatoly Orzhachowski, if you could join me for a minute? One minute, no more.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u203	A minute is a thank you. Gennady Andryovich, I can't in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u204	All right, go ahead. One minute and ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u205	Gennady Andryovich, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u206	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u207	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I would like to bring to the attention of the Government of Ukraine, the public, the situation in many parts of the Herson area regarding the enforcement of court decisions and the satisfaction of the application of the officials of education, health, culture, the problems of the repayment of the housing and utilities debt incurred in 99-2002 at the expense of local budgets. On this point, I have to ask a single question, although I wanted to say it in the context of the speech during the parliamentary hearings that took place in the Supreme Council of Ukraine two days ago with problems of regional policy and local self-government. Unfortunately, I was not given the floor, as was none of the representatives of the Company of Ukraine. Now, as to the content of the dozen heads of the councils of the Skadovian region and the position of the Holocaust District Council on the matter. They state that the funds of the representatives of the budget sector are condemned in court, but the judges ’ rulings say that they can only be reimbursed upon the arrival of the funds. The defendants ’ responses were determined by the village councils. The village heads do not consider themselves to be responsible for the problems of the state, since article 34 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government refers to the granting of benefits to those categories to delegated powers. Thus, the delegated authority of the rural councils should also be given adequate financial resources from the State Budget. Unfortunately, they are not. There is only a law on the State Budget that stops the act of the stated legislation of Ukraine in the time period of granting the aid. Here's the state. First he introduces the benefits, then he takes them away. In addition, local budgets are not self - sufficient as a result of the so - called reform of agricultural groups, and the main fillings of rural budgets have been eliminated. The same farms that are still in operation do not pay off their debts because of bankruptcy or because of the deliberate actions of their managers, or because of significant delays. The dismissal of judges and then the actions of the district justice authorities, who send letters to banks after blocking the accounts of the village councils, lead to strained relations between local authorities and intelligence. All of this blocks the activities of local self - government authorities in the payment of salaries to designated workers and in the financing of their production needs. So, the councils of the districts, like others, require the government to respond effectively to the problems raised, and I ask that a parliamentary request be made to the Prime Minister of Ukraine under the Ukrainian Constitution, the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government, the Budget Code on the State's responsibility for the financial security of its delegated rural and rural councils. And for the rest. In spite of the long-standing accumulation of debt, the government should immediately find an aid scheme for low-level power chains, how to act in this situation, because it's not politics, it's rural pain, and it's incomprehensibility to do self-government. If they do not, it is clear that this is a policy that is meant to destroy the organs of self - government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u208	Mikola Sokirko, Our Ukraine, Solidarity. Dear Chief, colleagues! I want to pay particular attention to the fact that, obviously, the problems of our lives make us look at more radical forms to solve all the pressing issues. But Ukraine, as we know, is a great state, and it also has a lot of problems. And one of them, in my constituency number 17, is the transport link of the railway that connects Kiev-Odessa, and today the problems that have arisen there are the voters' concerns, because the very large number of people living in this region are using rail transport. And as a national deputy, I'm constantly being approached by a large number of voters from Pistansky, Krizopolski, Chechnya Region of the Winnitsk Region, asking to resume the work of the American Cinderella train. I personally addressed the Ukrainian Chief of Transportation on this matter. Simple people complain that the state does not allow them to get to work or solve their various issues. And yet I would like to ask the Minister of Transport of Cyprus once again to pay attention to the return of the Żmerinka Cinderella train, because this train is essential for the hundreds of thousands of citizens of Pistachian, Crižopil, Chichilni district, Vinnitsk district. Because the arguments here are unnecessary, because the train doesn't cause much damage, because the hundred thousand who use that train still bring some kind of replenishment to the execution of the state. But, Your Honor, the damage may be much greater if this route does not return. I've learned that in areas where initiatives are being set up to organize a roadblock for Smerinca Odessa. And I would like to make sure that this doesn't happen and as chairman, and as a reference, I would like to make this as my address to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-18-m0.u209	Dear colleagues. In accordance with the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of August 6, 1998, a series of measures are being taken each year to improve the environment. For this reason, the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine is addressing us in order to ensure the effective implementation of the measures by Environment Day 2003. I ask you, honourable national MPs, to engage representatives of organizations, institutions, public organizations and large groups of people in their constituencies to undertake such measures as the organization and well-being of instigation areas, the planting of trees, the clearing of water sources, and the carrying out of information and awareness-raising activities aimed at raising the population's environmental awareness. As the Environment Day falls on April 19th this year, the action takes on special importance in Kiev at the Fifth Pan-European Conference of Environment Ministries of the Environment of Europe and will contribute to the creation of a positive international image of Ukraine. Honorable national MPs, ministers, environmental rebirths, and the harmonization of life’s forces are inseparably linked to culture and spirituality. Thus, holding the events of the 2003 Environment Day will contribute to the spiritual rebirth of the Ukrainian people and to the prosperity of our nation. So let us unite our efforts on the way to a high culture of society and a clean environment. Dear colleagues, at this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. The plenary session will begin at 10 a.m. on May 13, the government's day. What questions will be considered, you know. The schedule for the meetings has been delivered. Good luck. Good-bye.
