ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please invite the national deputies to the session room. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. 403 national deputies were registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we are continuing our consideration of the draft Property Assessment Act. According to Vladimir Alexiyovich Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u2	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Once again, I'm going to speak, not my own opinion, but from the committee. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting considered a bill on land assessment aimed at determining the legal principles of land and land valuation, the basic provisions of the relevant documentation, the rights, duties and responsibilities of participants in land activities and the state regulation of the activities noted. According to the results of the discussion, the committee notes that the bill submitted requires harmonization with the Ukrainian Law on Property Assessment, Property Rights and Professional Evaluation Activities in Ukraine, on the subject of evaluation activities, on the acquisition of the right to take up evaluation activities, and so on. In addition, when the committee discussed the use of the bill, some of the things that many people do not understand are the subjects of land relations, such as the capitalization of the income of what you realize is that people on the ground will not always understand such terms, even though they are especially correct. Scientists at the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences also made comments. They believe that the draft law does not address the following issues: the assessment of agricultural land as regards the rate of capitalisation, the difference between the assessment of agricultural and non-agricultural land and whether the owner will be able to challenge the estimated cost. In their view, the law should be based on a standard monetary valuation. It also draws attention to the fact that according to the draft law, a land surveyor may be a foreigner or a stateless person. According to experts from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the bill does not fully address specific issues. For example, the project focuses solely on the assessment of land without considering that land is usually an integral part of the entire property complex, and therefore they have to be evaluated together with the buildings, the buildings on it. It should contribute to strengthening the information and regulation load of this project by including in its section 2 a position on the identification of the main sources of information for monetary valuation. Land cadastre materials, information from industry cadastres, materials from domestic land management, master plans, and plans for the planning and construction of settlements, land inventory, and so forth. Some positions of the project need to be clarified, for example, in part 2 of article 13 it is necessary to specify the names of the central executive authorities who are authorized to set monetary valuation standards. There are other comments that need to be taken into account when finalizing the bill in preparation for the second reading. The general conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority: the first reading of the bill may be based on the draft. The Committee agreed with most of the comments and suggestions made, and after a lively debate, it concluded that it recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u3	Yes, Your Honor, is there a question for a co-conspirator? If there is, please sign up. Five minutes to ask. Or maybe not? Put it on the board, please. Yes, Stepan Cloud, please, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u4	Cloud, block of Julia Timoshenko. Tell me, how do you define yourself with the ambiguities or some ambiguities that are in the bill, if, for example, it is accepted in the first reading, so that's the basic ideology that will be adopted in the bill? And there is great doubt that this law will be an obstacle to abuse, to an objective assessment of the value of the earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u5	Your Honor, Mr. Ilkovich, the point is that the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, looking at this bill, did not see the reasons for the abuses you are talking about. The point is that there are authorities and government authorities and local governments and others who will control this assessment of land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u6	Alexei Babourin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u7	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. May I have the floor to the People's Deputy, Mr. Frost Anatoly?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u8	Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u9	Dear Vladimir Alexiyovich, we are all probably still under the impression of parliamentary hearings on agri-industrial issues. Everyone seems to remember what a heated discussion there was, especially when the decision of the Supreme Council was taken on this issue. And perhaps everyone remembers when we asked about the allocation of funds by the State to conduct an assessment of the land. And you probably remember, and most deputies remember that they didn't vote on this point. Do you think this is probably the adoption of this law, it's in a direct relation to what we may not have finished? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u10	I agree with you in this regard. The thing is, the assessment of the land there is economic, normative and expert. So where the expert is, where these sales contracts are already going to be, and so on, it's going to be executed at the customer's expense. As for the alienation of property rights to land, there for the social needs and social needs, the budget will be used to do so. So here it's a little bit taken into account, but not entirely, what we put back then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u11	Mikola Odanik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u12	Dear reporter, please tell me, the bill is very confusing, who has the right to appreciate the land, more loyal, not even blurry, but very much. Well, everybody's right. Who will be responsible for the correct assessment of land? That's one question. And the second question, please tell me, if you appreciate the earth as you just said it was a drawback. The earth, along with the buildings, can result in no cost at all for the building, and most of the time these buildings will be taken for what it takes to endure these buildings.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u13	Thank you for asking. With regard to the first question, here in this bill, most of the control of this estimated activity relies on the authorities of the executive state on land issues, so it will control and probably take responsibility for whether it is properly assessed or not. As for buildings that are located on land. Then there is also an appropriate method of assessment. And I don't think they're going to be devalued because the land is going to be the main area, and she said it wasn't the main area. This is where we made comments at the committee meeting, so that this bill would further clarify the issue so that it could be resolved and understood for all the executives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u14	George Manchulenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u15	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Your Honor, I'm worried about the next question. There is an agricultural land, and there are urban lands or land inhabited. Will there be a differentiated approach in the assessment of these lands? Would it not continue the vachanalia that is being observed today with the lands of the populous sites with a valuable assessment of the lands of the slags? And whether it might be inappropriate to break this law into two laws -- on the value of assessing the value of the land and the value of the land that is in the settlements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u16	Thank you. Perhaps it would be appropriate. But it's this bill that we're looking at that was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And he brought it together. And you may have pointed out that in my report, it was said that not all of this was precisely an estimate of agricultural land and not agricultural land. So I think that these remarks are going to be taken into account by both your comments and the committee in the process and in the preparation for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u17	Thank you. All of it. How'd you miss it? You're not here, you're not on the computer. When they spoke, you were shut down. Okay, Anatoly Frost, we're not having a discussion. There's no reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u18	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I ask you to give the word to Eshchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u19	National Deputy Yeshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u20	Fucking Communist faction. Vladimir Aleksevich, I want to ask you a question. So, in view of our hearing at the parliamentary hearings about the agro-industrial complex, our friend Atamánuk was unable to speak at the parliamentary hearings. The area. There are many questions to be asked today by peasants from the earth’s estimate. Why is the index that has already been made three times disregarded today? Three times, peasants ask why people are fooling around today and do not say that Kabminu’s Order is already conducting the third earth - price index. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u21	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the fact is that we really don't have the Land Assessment Act right now, and all this work is being done in accordance with the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. But there's also the Indexing Act, which I think I should take into account. So if there are any observations, disagreements, and so on, you could refer to the executive authority authorized by the Cabinet of Ministers to control this work, i.e. the State Committee on Land Resources. If this law is passed, then we will be guided by it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u22	Thank you. Thank you. Please sit down, Vladimir Alexiyovich. Let's move on to the discussion. Put it on the board, who signed up. Ten minutes. Please, Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, prepare Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u23	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Sir, the reverently suffering Ukrainian people. The law, which is proposed and called land assessment, is the second series of Ukraine's Earth Code, implementing its final provisions of paragraph 4. The second series is because, in the final version of the law, the Earth Code was adopted completely illegally, and that is what everyone remembers about who was here. Then the Solidarity Group voted only for the second reading, not the final reading. It was unfortunately all crossed out as if they thought it was accepted as a whole. So I'd like to call this a different law. It could only be considered if it was called an assessment of the land of a non - agricultural assignment located in cities and towns of the urban type. Why do I have to say that? That's what I'm saying. That no one has given us the right to do this in any other way, in accordance with article 14 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which stipulates that the land is the basic national wealth under special protection of the State. And from what I've seen, I'd like to say that today, at what cost we have land, no one can. There are various estimates — from the 90 trillion that Alexander Tkachenko has today declared to be several billion, which he calls the government. In fact, the truth is somewhere in the middle. And to appreciate today and to sell agricultural land today, I think it's a national crime. Because, first of all, people don't have money. It's different. They're crazy. And now you can't legitimize what's going on. On the other hand, in cities and in particular in Odessa there's a land distribution where the price of hundreds of land in the city of Odessa is equal to 15,000 dollars. Everyone knows that by looking at where the earth is, if it's near the sea. Now, about the legal flaws in this document, and they, believe me, are a lot of these flaws. It raises huge doubts and article 16, which stipulates that economic regulatory land produces technical documentation. It raises great doubt, and part three of this article 16 says that a document that testifies to the monetary valuation of a particular land area is an act of assessment. So the act of valuation is made up of both the normative monetary and the expert monetary valuation of the land. It causes observations and other provisions of this law, which, I think, are politically inappropriate to adopt this law, and if adopted, in a completely different way with the name I have called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u24	Mikhailo Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Please. You don't? Please, Stanislaw Nikolainka. Out of the way. Turn on Nikolaynko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u25	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The law is truly an extremely important and especially important issue that we are discussing today. It's a land problem, it's an estimate of the quality of the land and all that. The law offers two prices of land: one - economic estimate, the other - monetary. The socialist party felt that the sale of agricultural land today was clearly out of time. I want to tell you from my own experience as a member of the majority electoral district of Hersonish. We have issued certificates to people today, and some have already received acts. There's a price in these acts. And today people are forced to pay taxes for the land and things like that. People don't know what to do with this land. And people start who rents it to someone, where they use it, and stuff like that. Generally, those who rent this land and so forth are not counted on by humans. Or they can be calculated at prices 10-15 times higher than they are worth and land. Demeanor, vice versa. And today there's a lot of scandals. I'm reviewing this law. This law introduces an institution of assessors. It's once again we're creating an institution that's going to evaluate the ground and it's going to be the third skin to "scratch" from a peasant. Why is that? Or, for example, such questions. We're talking about setting up a monetary valuation. And now this rating that's already in the issued certificates, how is it going to respond to what's going to happen and what's going to happen? And that price that stands now in the act. What will be the price of recognition? What's going to happen now, or what? Section 3 of article 16 of this law indicates that the formation of earth’s assessment materials will take place. What's happened? How will the law go back? Article 22 of this law introduces such a novelty — public regulation in the field of land assessment. I mean, self-regulatory organizations. What is it? Self - regulation organizations will appreciate that. How can it be easily, calmly, and in my opinion, surprisingly, this very important issue is dealt with? So I think, and I think that our faction will support me, and we will definitely oppose the sale of land, and we will definitely oppose the introduction of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u26	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u27	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region When I look at these two bills -- land protection and land assessment -- I'm talking about a song like "Guarantee, don't chase horses." I would like to say to you, Mr. President, and to those who have prepared these two bills, that we have long come and gone. But it's all about the colleagues who passed the bill, and I respect them, and I want to make a few comments. It should be made clear that the monetary valuation of the land should be based on the natural fertility of the land and that every farmer and everyone who worked in the agrarian complex of Ukraine knows. Without a cadastre assessment of the earth, of course, there can be no reference to the earth’s assessment at all. I don't get it, my colleague Nikolaynko here said that this is a notion of "self-greed evaluators." The reporter wanted us to find out something here. I'm told we're doing something that nobody needs. There is a clear estimate of the money of the earth, it must be by world standards, because the earth is not worse than in other European states. That's why we don't need to lure peasants into some self-organization. Article 13, part two, that the central authorities of the executive branch set up the normative monetary valuations of the land. If so, everything must go through parliament! We are referred to some orders, everything, and we are the legislative body, and everything in the legislative field should be considered, not just according to orders. Article 22: Public land assessment regulation. Well, here's a question again. We need those who have prepared the bill to review it. Article 21: "Determining the involvement of local self-government." Once again, I ask that local self - government work with the earth, because it is a nation’s chosen organ, and it is given the right to represent the people both in the assessment of the earth and at other times when it comes to land, land use or its evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u28	Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u29	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies, appreciating in general the positive factor that the State Commission has finally listened to and introduced this law for consideration by the Supreme Council, I would like to make a number of clarifications that need to be made to the law. First on the economic assessment of the earth. It depends on bonitity and natural farming. It's a certain set of physical and chemical characteristics, climate and so on. All these signs must be prescribed by law. In the Soviet Union, that was 15 signs. There's more of them now. In the United States, that's 49 signs. But all these signs must be written in the law in order for someone else to make an economic assessment so that he does not add a sign at his will, and for others to be taken away. The other one. Regarding the so - called normative assessment of the earth. A normal assessment of the land has already been made by another agricultural institution. If the first was submitted by the Institute of Land, this is the Institute of Economics, an agrarian institution. A normal assessment of the earth is necessary to determine the lowest possible price for land in Ukraine. A normal estimate of the land depends on income. Profit income consists of a differential rent and an absolute rent. Is it not known on the basis of the data on which the differential income is determined — or on the basis of the standards that were in the Soviet Union, or on the basis of the standards that relate to the number of added fertilizers and so forth? Therefore, a normative assessment should be based on the costs needed to obtain natural crops. This will be the lowest acceptable price on earth. And in the end, that's a very important question. the term of the land's capitalization. Deputies! For 8 years now, Ukraine has been living in an environment of unfaithful monetary valuation of land held by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Capitalization in determining this estimate was recognized as 25 years, and differential income was determined on the basis of differential income in the 1980s. As a result, the price of land was set at 2.5-3 thousand dollars per hectare, now it's 11,000 dollars. I want to ask you, who's going to buy a hectare of land at that price? Who will take the land on bail at such a price? So we have to get to the real term of capitalization, which is not more than 10 years old. Next question. I support this question asked by MP Manchulenko about the fact that the assessment of the land, the grills and the assessment of the land in the settlements are completely different methodological approaches and they have to be made in different laws. And at the end of the day, that's the last of it. Depending on where the agricultural land will be used, it has a different price. If the land is to be used further for agricultural purposes, it must have one price and this price depends on differential income. If this land is taken under construction, then instead of differential income, the full cost of crops that can be obtained on a given land is set aside. It's going to cost five to ten times as much as it costs, because it's getting away from farming. All these things have to be put into law. I believe that the law is difficult and that it needs to be developed very carefully for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u30	Thank you. Sergey Sas, please, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u31	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. National MP Sas, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Respectable national MPs, the issue under consideration, are of paramount importance not only because it is a key link in land regulation but primarily because mistakes in its resolution can have disastrous consequences not only for agricultural production but for millions of citizens. primarily peasants, as well as the state as a whole. So I want to stop, in some ways, the fundamental flaws of the proposed bill. Before moving to regulating such an important circle of legal relations, it may have been necessary to settle some of the inaccuracies found in the Code of Land. In particular, I refer to article 146, part 3, of the Code of Land provides that the value of the land is determined according to the monetary and expert valuation of the land, and article 201 says that depending on the order of conduct, the monetary valuation of the land may be normative and expert. So in this case, a slight inaccuracies would seem to have a significant negative effect. In the near future, we're going to be looking at the issue of buying land for social purposes, and there's a reference to that standard, and it's not reflected in the fact that monetary and expert valuation is part of the same assessment of land, because money is divided into expert and normative estimates. As far as the law itself is concerned. Article 1 of the law defines land assessment as a process of determining the quality of the economic value and the value of the land. Part Two defines the objects of the assessment, which are land plots or a group of land plots, the rights to them, including land particles, pies. In this case, there are some inaccuracies from the point of view of compliance with the legislative technique. First, before you get to regulating a certain circle of relationships, you have to define the terms. In this case, I'm introducing terms like "Evaluation of Land Rights", "A Valuation."".. This does not coincide with the assessment of land at all, with the name of the law. The idea is that the bill attempts to regulate the legal relationship and the object of the definition of land particles, pies. Although we all know that the land share, the pie is just a virtual land area that is defined in the conditional hectares and therefore cannot be evaluated. And a certificate certifying the right to land is only a rightful document for a citizen's right to claim land in kind. That's why we can stop. I'm done. With regard to earth’s assessment issues, there is a need to expand and determine the circle of the objects involved. It's about land rights, land plots, pies. I think that this bill needs to be redrafted and brought up for consideration after agreement with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Land Assessment Act has been completed. We'll make a decision when we vote. We made a deal with you at the Conciliation Council. What? For reasons of interest, please, National Deputy Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, I was enrolled in the performance, but unfortunately I did not have a turn. But I can't help but comment on the reasons for the vote. The land in Ukraine is not sand in the Sahara, it's our basic wealth, and it needs to be evaluated on the basis of natural fertility, i.e. cadastral assessment, based on international standards of assessment. As a result, it is not only the national regulation of evaluation activities but also the public control of evaluation. I turn to those who oppose the earth’s assessment. Those who oppose the assessment of land and the formation of the land market with good intentions pave the way to the wild market. If we want to go to a civil market, we need to regulate these processes. If we protest, do not adopt laws, we will be able to buy land, steal, distribute land for nothing. We are obliged by law to regulate these processes and to exercise our control function. If we avoid it, we will do worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues, on February 20, 2003, we adopted a decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the fact that an open false letter from the head of the faction "Our Ukraine" has been circulated to the electorate. Paragraph 4 of this decision provided for the hearing of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the State Liaison and Information Committee of Ukraine on the progress of the investigation of the release and distribution of the false open letter. General Prosecutor Piscoon Svetoslav Mikhailovich is present. The head of the Security Service is ill, with the presence of Pristajko Vladimir Ilchi, deputy head of the Security Service. Interior Minister Yuri Alexanderovich Smyrnov and Head of the State Liaison and Information Committee, Gončar Mikola Viktorovich. The profile committee, headed by Moysik Vladimir Romanovich, suggests that this issue be considered in this way. Allow the heads of central executives, who have just been mentioned, to speak with information for five minutes. I invite you to the rostrum of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Piscoon Svetoslav Mihajlovich. Please. One minute, Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich. There's not supposed to be, we have to figure it out with you, there's a committee proposal, let's figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u35	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The "Our Ukraine" faction insists that we be able to ask each of the respondents a question, and that the time is set by regulations for questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u36	Dear colleagues! There's a proposal by the Committee on Law Enforcement, there's a proposal by the faction of "Our Ukraine" to give five minutes to speak, so I understand, five minutes to ask. Yes, Victor Mikhailovich? I'm voting on the proposal. One moment, calm down, please. I'm betting on the vote to set the order: five minutes, five minutes, on the question. Stop, we have to vote, then we're in mode two. There's one proposal, I'm putting it to a vote. [[16:35:48]] For 203 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you all to take your seats, calm down. We'll make a decision that you can determine. There's a friend's offer: 5 minutes for information, 10 minutes for questions. Please make up your mind. Just consider, your honor, how many bills we have not yet considered. [[16:36:26]] For 208 The procedure proposed by the committee remains with no questions asked. Calm down. What's the order? Dear National Deputies! I'm telling you again. If you want, I'll put it to a vote. Please don't scream. There was a proposal for a profile committee. By the way, the head of the committee is part of the faction "Our Ukraine," which offered to give just five minutes of information. I suggested you didn't support it. I suggested five minutes, five minutes, five questions. You didn't support it. I suggested: 5 minutes — a performance, 10 questions. You didn't support it. Tell me what you want, please. I don't need a 7th and a 7th. There's 45 minutes when we're looking at the bill. And here we have a deal to make. I'm voting on the proposal. Five minutes for the show, five minutes for the answers. Please be sure. [[16:37:43]] For 228 Decision taken. Please, Svetoslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u37	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine’s new Criminal Code is not included.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u38	Just a minute. Dear colleagues! Maybe we'll wait until you've solved all the organizational issues there. I'm asking for your attention. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u39	Ukraine’s new Criminal Code does not provide responsibility for the commission of insults and slander. The abolition of responsibility for these acts, which were punishable by the Criminal Code of Ukraine, was approved by the international community. As an important step toward ensuring freedom of expression, which is an essential condition for the rule of law. But life shows that decriminalization was at least premature. Individuals, and sometimes media sources, have leaked misrepresentative information, misrepresentations, facts, dirty inventions that anyone can imagine — from average citizen to high - level official. Thus, the realities of our present day prove that our society should not pass. There is yet to be a period of time when conditions are created under which criminal responsibility for slander would not really be necessary. Regrettably, such a thought is confirmed by the recent terrible events that even took place this morning. This is the suicide of the head of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Cherkas region, where many accusations were made on the press’s pages during the week. The investigation will show what the causes and motives of suicide were, but there is no doubt that the assessments expressed by individual citizens as well as by the media have played a devastating role. Moreover, slander is increasingly used in the political struggle. Yes, 18.02. 03. I was approached by the Ukrainian national deputy Yushchenko Viktor Andriyovich, who claimed that in a number of regions of Ukraine there was a so-called open letter to "My Voters" apparently on his behalf. It has been established that 90,000 of these cards have actually been distributed in nine Western regions of Ukraine: Winnicki, Volinski, Zakarpatski, Frankivsky, Lvivsky, Ravenski, Ternopilski, Hmelnicki and Cherniewski, based on a contract between Krašta and the Ukrainian Television Agency. However, as found in the company’s props, this television agency is missing. It was suspended back in 1997, and the person on whose behalf the contract was entered into with the Crucifixion and the payment for the services rendered does not exist at all. There is no doubt that this card is prepared, not by Viktor Andrievich, but by the unappointed individuals who have also provided it with information that does not match the reality, shames Yushchenek and undermines his reputation as the national deputy of Ukraine and the leader of the political bloc "Our Ukraine". That's why 26. 02. 03 The Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, on the basis of the above, has been charged with a criminal offence under article 353 of the new Criminal Code of Ukraine. The case has created an investigative and operational group, which involves the employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, with all the necessary first-hand follow-up actions and operational investigations to establish persons who are involved in the production and distribution of an open letter. In particular, questioned as witnesses by the officials and other employees of Crucifixion, who had a bearing on the conclusion and execution of this treaty. All relevant documents have been removed from this drive. A letter was sent to the Home Office regarding the termination of the distribution of the card and the removal of all available distributions. Several forensic experts have been appointed and conducted to establish, inter alia, ways and means of producing these cards, as well as persons who have participated directly in the production and distribution of these cards. On our orders, the operational personnel of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service, which conducts the search and search operations, are assigned the task of establishing these persons and we will bring criminal responsibility. The criminal investigation is on my personal control. In view of these considerations, we have prepared a draft addition to the Criminal Code in article 151 with the "1" badge, which provides responsibility for slander. Since I don't have the right to legislative initiative, I'm handing it over to you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this project and I'm asking you all of the national MPs to support our project and bring it up for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u40	Please sign up for the question. Light up, please. Andrew Schlell, next is Slybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u41	First of all, I'm glad that the Attorney General has already clearly admitted from this rostrum that it was a fake, and, so I understand that he will also agree that this fake has a name, a name and a father. In this room we can call it, but I wanted the Attorney General to do it. But I do have a question. So much time has passed, so much expertise is still being done. How long does it take to do the research? Anyway, there's a customer, there's specific performers. In other cases, if it hadn't been for God's sake, it would have touched the guarantor of the Constitution, I think a man of 40 would have been put up first, then a man of 20 would have confessed to them that they did it, and then they would have started investigating, an expert as it was, for example, in a situation on March 9th. At first, 250 people were arrested, and then they began to make identifications and so forth. Why are we pulling so hard? Mr. Piscoon, please. I understand that there is still political responsibility. But why?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u42	No, no, no. So no one's pulling anything. The experts are done. We've got everything we need from these experts. Follow-up teams work both in Ukraine and abroad. We have already conducted searches at the appropriate institutions and we have appropriate work to do on this issue. But I can't finally tell you the result yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u43	Sergei Slabenko. Next Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u44	I ask you to convey to the National Deputy Roman Zvaric, the faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u45	Dear Holy Michaelovich, I have a few questions. They're very specific, I'd like a specific answer. Is there a specific person who signed a treaty on behalf of "Staff" and has it been established that when signing this contract a physical card or a copy of this card was in the hands of "Stamps"? This is once. Is there also an account from which the contract is paid? And is there a specific individual who signed the payment for this contract?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u46	I've already answered that a person on the side of Crucifixion has been installed who signed this treaty. We're also looking for the person who signed the treaty on the other side, paid for these jobs, and this person if, and I'm sure, we're going to invent it, the operational services will help us, she'll be brought to criminal responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u47	Oleg Yukhnowsky. Next, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u48	Ivanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u49	Please, it's Ivanov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u50	Dear Svetoslav Mihajlovich, the law enforcement authorities will now establish this person. Give it to God so that it actually works out that way. But you initially broke the law by bringing a criminal case against the relevant articles. Then send these materials to the court, and he will not be brought to justice by the court, because you said in the first place that there is no present-day article of slander. That's why I'm addressing you and I'm addressing the deputies right now. Today, a law has been passed on to all, which is precisely the subject of the Penal Code. And for such things to be inconvenient in the future, I think we should accept them soon and then listen to officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u51	We'll be very grateful if you'll accept that, but I'd like to take your attention again. Listen to me for a minute. The criminal case is violated under article 353, which says: "The arbitrary assignment of authority or the title of an official. The arbitrary assignment of official powers or the appointment of an official is combined with any socially dangerous act being committed by fines up to 50 untaxed minimum incomes of citizens or by arrest for a term of up to six months or restriction of will for up to 3 years." Because the person who signed the name Victor Yashchenka is not Victor Yashchenk, and he is a national MP, and that is this criminal, so we will speak, which has not yet been established, he has assumed the authority of the national deputy, he has no right to do so. Under this article, a criminal case has been committed. Absolutely legal. There's another 170 -- "Intentionally obstructing the legitimate activities of professional groups, political parties, public organizations or bodies. We have also violated this article, but this must be proved in the course of the investigation, that there is little room for such obstruction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u52	Yuri Klukkowski, please, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u53	Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine", National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Holy Michaelovich, I'm still calling your attention to the fact that you haven't fully answered your questions, so I want to repeat them. The first person to sign, which natural person signed the payment, which counted the cost of Crucifixion to pay for the distribution contract. And the second. When signing the contract, did the representative of Ukraine see the material that he was supposed to distribute on behalf of a firm? And did he know that this material uses the name Victor Yushchenk? Because in principle, I can imagine some firm signing a contract with Shorty to distribute calls for the violent overthrow of Ukrainian power. And then what are we going to do? Is the government going to do this?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, please don't ask me to do what I can't say. I can't call it a name from this rostrum, I can't say who did what until the criminal case is finished. I told you what I had to say. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u55	Thank you. Reverend Mikhailovich, please sit down. In the end, wait a minute. Let's follow the logic of things. Do you have motive? From the motive, turn on the microphone of the national representative of Redonia.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u56	Thank you. Honorable Ukrainian national MPs, honourable chairman, I would like, with a motive, literally two sentences. The point is that the Attorney General's address contained the number of 90,000 letters that were distributed in several areas mainly in Western Ukraine. I, along with National Deputy Sergey Alexyuk, was at the Plain District Department of Ukraine that day and they removed the document from the e-mail that came from Kiev, and I think it wasn't only in the Equinox, but in other district offices in Skrošta, where it was recorded that only in the Plains region, and this relatively small area, there were going to be 100,000 leaflets. Here's a print on the area. For example, the Berezni district is 5,000, the Glaodomorite district is 4,000. - 3,000 and so on. In the city of Equinom, it's 37,000. We've managed to block 37,000. In the city of Equina, this card did not go, but only 63,000 were in the province of Ravenna. So 90,000 is a number that doesn't correspond to reality. I'd like to emphasize that. Thank you. The figure was 900,000, not 90. Well, the Attorney General says 900. Yes, dear colleagues, we continue to work constructively. I invite you to the podium of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service Vladimir Ilich Pristajko. Please. He's talking, 900,000.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u57	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Regarding the issues that are being discussed here today, I feel it is necessary to report the following. On February 14, 2003, the Ukrainian National Deputy Red Vasil Mikhajlovich addressed the Ukrainian Security Service in the Plains region for the distribution of an open letter to the voters, who allegedly had been signed by the head of the Ukrainian deputy faction "Our Ukraine" by Yushchenk Viktor Andriyovich, and proposed to file a criminal case based on the facts. On February 20, 2003, the Ukrainian Security Service received a parliamentary address from the Ukrainian deputy Yuschenko Viktor Andriyovich, and on February 24, a letter from the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Lithuania, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, with a statement by the Ukrainian national deputy Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlovich, announced at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 18, 2003, calling for a proper investigation. As you know, the letter specifically refers to the nature of the relationship between the leaders of the "Our Ukraine" bloc and the "Our Fatherland" party. And a legal analysis of its contents shows that there are no signs of crimes that are referred to by law as the jurisdiction of the Ukrainian Security Service. In this connection, the National Deputies of Ukraine were sent for further consideration by the Prosecutor’s Office of the Plain Region and the Attorney General’s Office on February 17 and 27, 2003, respectively. On February 24, 2003, the Ukrainian Security Service was commissioned by the Attorney General of Ukraine, Piscoon Svetoslav Mihajlovich, to send instructions to the Regional Security Service authorities regarding the conduct of operational and search measures during the procurator’s examinations in connection with the distribution of the letter. At present, seven requests and orders have been received from the District Prosecutor's Office to the relevant Ukrainian Security Service offices in the areas for the purpose of informing prosecutors of the fact that letters have been distributed on behalf of the National Deputy Victor Yushchenk, to carry out verifications of the conditions of this distribution, and to take decisions in accordance with the requirements of article 97 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on the results of the checks. To carry out the mandate of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Central Authority of the BSC shall, on 25 February this year, direct the regional authorities of the BSC to carry out appropriate operational and search measures in the event of their receipt of written instructions and instructions on matters relating to the competence of the Security Service authorities in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Operational Search Act. As has already been said here, on 26 February, the Attorney-General of Ukraine filed a criminal case on the basis of the crime provided for in articles 170 and 350 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The interaction between the Ukrainian Security Service and the prosecutor’s office will continue in the investigation of a criminal case within the framework of current legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u58	I'd like to ask you, if there is, to sign up. Please point it on the board. Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u59	Dear reporter! The Communist faction. I'm listening to this question today, and my question is, of course, a lot of people in this room won't like it, but I'll tell myself what I think. In 11 years of being in the Communist Party, I have endured so many slanders and so many lies, and I sit down and think about how to stand for myself if necessary. And it's just like a lineup. And we Communists, if we had all our slanders on the Supreme Council today and had to be held accountable to the prosecutor, the President, the Security Service, the Minister of the Interior, would probably not have been here for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u60	People's MP Seminoga, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u61	Please pass the word to the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u62	Louder. Don't hear it. To whom should I give the word?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u63	Please give the floor to the national deputy of Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u64	National MP Billorus Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u65	Dear speaker! Everyone in this room knows that these fakes were printed near Uzhgrad in one of the neighboring countries at a distance of 32 kilometers [32 km] from the customs office. How could this cargo have gone undetected? And border control. And what role is Ukraine’s Security Service? And these are millions of circulations, not carried in the pocket, but carried in trucks. It's not a mouse that has crossed the border, it's a bold act over the state border of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u66	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u67	This is the first time I've heard of this information. I think this information is interesting, it's being listened to by the Attorney General. A proper assignment, and that's what we're gonna do. For the first time, I hear that this was printed abroad and passed through the border. We don't have that information right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u68	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u69	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". Dear Vladimir Ilchi, I have two questions. First. The media reported that an order of 35,000 had been paid for the distribution of nearly 1 million of this printed product. In your opinion, is this a figure that represents the cost of the Krašta as a state-owned enterprise for this expansion? If it does not reflect, the official’s name has been identified and has tried to arrange it. and arranged for this to be arranged at such a price. That's the first one. And the second part. You said there was no crime in this card for the Security Service. From some point on, the epistular genre has become the most popular in Ukraine. Posters of unknown content appear, greetings appear, and so forth. If someone takes and dispels all political forces among themselves. So will this be a reason for the Security Service to intervene seriously already? If there is a poster in Kiev tomorrow on behalf of the President of Ukraine, he will welcome our women from March 8, and a poster will appear tomorrow: with independence day such as Kyrgyzstan, dear fellow countrymen! President Leonid Kuchma will be the Security Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u70	Turn off the microphone. I'm asking you to ask me a question for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u71	As far as 36,000 is concerned, this is the sum that is recorded in the contract between the two sides. The party that was going to transport and deliver to the box, and the party that paid for it. I think it's the subject of criminal investigation and the subject of our problems. As far as the Security Service is concerned. The Security Service will only deal with cases where the criminal code provides for the crime. This is a total of 33 crime scenes. This is defined here in this room. If the Supreme Council decides to extend the powers of the Ukrainian Security Service in this or other sphere, we will do it and we will do it, we have the skill, we have the skill. I can assure you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u72	Joseph Wynsky, please, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u73	Wynski, faction of the Socialist Party. Please give the word to Bok Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u74	Ivan Sidorovich Boki. Turn on the microphone of Boko Ivan Sidorovich. What doesn't work, does it? Maybe you should switch. Yeah, yeah, it's working, it's working.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u75	Dear Volodymyr Illihu, everything has a beginning, but there is no end to it. Recall 1999. Then one of the election headquarters of the President-in-Office, and then and now, released three numbers of false "Village News." It was very well known, and your Security Service was given specific addresses where it was printed, which journalists released it, and it is now known. Well, it's been reported to the President, but he's been re-addressing you. There have been reports of an appeal to the Attorney General's Office, but then you took a write-off that it was the competence of the Central Electoral Commission, even though there was a direct slander against the presidential candidates, the rivals of the President-in-Office. And you know it. This was then subject to the Criminal Code. You realize that it was then given to start with this kind of dirty technology. Both the Security Service and the Attorney General, then the Attorney General, Mr. We'll understand why this happened. Do you not see the sequence in these actions? Can we be sure that there is no such article in the Criminal Code? There are other articles that are subject to such action. You already have specific addresses. And you say you don't know them.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u76	Dear John Sidorovich, we have discussed this situation more than once. Once again, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Attorney General's Office -- the only supervisory authority in the state and the highest -- has violated a criminal case. We've been given the task of carrying out the search and search, and in this context we've been carrying out our legal measures. If the D.A. were to break a criminal case and give a warrant, we too would be acting as a prosecutor’s attorney.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u77	Yes, Vladimir Illich, thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. I invite you to address the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine Smyrnov Jury Aleksandrovič.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u78	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, on February 18th, at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, People's Deputy Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlovich appealed to the law-enforcement authorities for the extension of the Krašta company forged on behalf of the leader of the "Our Ukraine" faction of the open letter to the electorate. He demanded an investigation into the incident and a criminal case. On February 20 and 21, the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Internal Affairs received the appeal of the national deputy Viktor Andryovich Yushchenk of the same content. In addition, on February 19th, the Attorney General sent a letter of request to the Ministry of Internal Affairs requesting regional prosecutors to establish the distribution of cards and persons involved in it to carry out search-and-research measures. In accordance with article 97 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, an investigation of the facts was organized immediately in the area of the Plain region and in other regions. Special attention was paid to determining the conditions for ordering, financing, and making cards. Directions are being directed to the regions to establish the facts of the coming of this product in the district of the Department of Crucifixion and to provide comprehensive assistance to prosecutors in eliminating it in accordance with current legislation. According to the information received, the cards were delivered to the branch companies of 900,000 copies and distributed as advertising and information materials in certain areas. On February 26, according to articles 170 and 353 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Attorney General’s Office reportedly established a criminal investigation team. In this regard, operational and search measures have been launched everywhere. They are carried out in accordance with individual mandates of the Attorney General’s Office from February 27 and 28, March 1, 2, and 3. In accordance with these instructions, arrangements are being made to establish individuals involved in the production and distribution of postcards as well as companies where they could be printed. At present, more than 1,600 printers are working, which have production capacity after the production of this number of printed products. Special attention is paid to the city of Kiev’s polygraph companies. In various parts of the country, some 4,000 people have been surveyed for information about the fact that these cards are produced by reason of their official status. Measures have been taken to establish that an agreement on the delivery of non-addressed information materials has been drawn up using limited company documents "The Ukrainian Television Agency". The payment of legal fees for nearly 43,000 dollars was twice made through the Shevchenk branch of the Kyiv City Savings Authority. The employees of the Post Office and the Savings Department, who have been in contact with those involved in the transport of postcards, have been set up and sent to the prosecutor's office for investigation. Based on the testimony of the witnesses, the portraits of the persons who paid for the delivery of the goods take steps to establish other persons involved in the event. The information received was that the cards were delivered to the ZIL truck's Cruise. The DAI’s operational services and employees have established the means of transport. Free entry into the area of unloading. And registration transport is not required. For help, about 3.5 thousand cars are registered in Kiev alone. In addition, officials of a limited-liability society called the Ukrainian Television Agency, which was created and registered in 1994 in the Old-Okiyiv district of Kiev, are being examined for this purpose. But since April 1997, it hasn't actually worked. The latest evidence, particularly regarding the theft of personal belongings, documents, and seals in July 1997, has been verified both in an operational way and in the process of carrying out investigations. In addition, a version of the possible submission of forged documents is being processed when a contract is made with the Post Office. Involved in this crime are individuals who have previously been involved in criminal responsibility for the forgery of documents, seals, stamps, and their sale and use. In my information, I've outlined only the substance of the measures that we're carrying out under the authority of the prosecutor's office in which the case lies. In this regard, I do not have the right to have more detailed information about the circumstances of the committed and suspected person. I would like to emphasize once again that all necessary steps will be taken to establish individuals involved in the production and distribution of these cards. It takes some time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u79	Please sign up for the question. Ask yourself, dear colleagues. Draw up a list of names on the board. Vladimir Sovkovic, European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u80	I wanted to call the Security Service. But if Yuri Aleksandrovich remains, he will be with him. Yuri Alexanderovich, today is a situation where I want to see this problem as a precedent. If you look at it as not just a criminal case where Svetoslav Mikhailovich Piscohn told you what articles and other articles are there, but if you talk about it as a precedent, then it's a pretty big and scary thing. Because such cards can be given about appeals to war, about the overthrow of power, about anything. About killings there and so on and so forth. So it could be like a call for mass upheaval, for anything. Let's try it now, if this question has already gone to the Supreme Council, to put it as a precedent. And then to think about it a little differently. Because if we miss this situation right now, tomorrow you'll be looking for it, but all over the country. If we do not now express the mistrust of the Complaint, we will not take down the head of the State Enterprise of Ukraštá. And you, as leaders of the force, must find a way to do that. Is that what I think?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u81	That's right. Thank you for asking. Vladimir Leonidovich, I think that, of course, these are the kind of fakes that are now a means for political, for political purposes, they are certainly not a society, and I think that politicians, those who are of themselves high-ranking people, are simply not needed. I think that this precedent, which has been established here, certainly requires a legal settlement and additional changes to our legislation. I would like to say to the distinguished people's deputies that the falsifier is well-traveled in Ukraine. There are so many wanderings. If we're on every fake, I'm just saying. I'm not betraying them. And we do what's right. And I said that we would take all measures to find these people, bring them to trial, and bring them to justice. I'm talking about a friend. It's probably not the kind of policy that liars need, otherwise it's not politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u82	Boris Oilynik, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u83	Dear Yuri Alexanderovich! Of the three reporters, you are the closest and most professional to the goal. And in that context, I would like to go to Vladimir Illich. You remember how we caught these bourgeois nationalists in our time. I don't get to work when he comes to see me as the editor-in-chief, the man in the gray cloak and says, "Good afternoon, here's the material." "What is it?" - "Yes, he is, you see, published on your typewriter." This was calculated in the south. You're given the address, the address of the neighbouring state. [[Not you, Yuri Alexanderovich.]] Give me two drills, we'll get in touch with that service, we'll find it in 72 hours. And there are no questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u84	Unfortunately, for the first time in this room, I have no information about what the address is. Honestly, I don't do it like the hall says I'm fooling around.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u85	Pass the address to law enforcement, please. Basil Nadrag, European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u86	Yuri Alexandrovich, next situation. Unfortunately, politics and criminal responsibility for the wonders of politics are, in general, mixed. I think here, sitting in my colleagues' room, they'll agree that there was a lot of flyers in the last election, including, I can tell you, there was something about me that I wanted to cry about. As a specialist, would you say that what the Attorney General has proposed, as a legislative initiative, is enough? Should we tighten up some other stuff? And if we do that, we'll get a flyer, someone walks around, slaps on each other's shoulders. And, unfortunately, as this has not been the case today, they don't even have an instrument to understand what it is and to call those who do.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u87	First of all, here. Thank you for asking. It was pointed out that I'm a specialist, and I didn't want them to know that I was an expert on forgeries. And unfortunately, I'm a specialist, frankly, of another plan. Rarely do such cases have to be dealt with, although they smell of crime. I think that the law is needed, it certainly needs and needs sanctions, because it builds both society and public morality, and builds up a political situation and gives us an additional impetus to the opposition in our society and civil society. Of course, the Attorney-General's proposal for a draft law, I think that if it was adopted, would be effective enough to counter this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u88	Victor Razwadowski. A group called Democratic Initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u89	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like first of all to share the opinion of all deputies, and to say thank you very much for the information that has really been provided meaningfully today in this case. That's why. Don't make that noise. And I'll have a question. Please tell us, do we need a law in our country on political extremism today? That's the first question. And the second question I'm going to have is this. Everybody's making a lot of noise today. Many falsified today about our nation’s president. Are there criminal cases in the Navy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u90	Thank you. If there is political extremism in the Power, it certainly needs a law that can counteract it. That's the answer to the first part of the question. With regard to leaflets and other publications that offend the President. There's a lot of them wandering around Ukraine. Regrettably, the President never addressed the Ministry of the Interior or gave any instructions to search for the authors of these falsifications and to bring them to justice. There are no criminal cases for today either in the Public Prosecutor's Office or in the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u91	Thank you, Yuri Alexanderovich. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u93	It's based on Lilia Grigorovich. Well, wait, it's the same procedure. We've already agreed on the procedure, what can we do with the procedure? Lilia Grigorovitch, please. Let's get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u94	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! After listening to three high officials, only in the speech of the Attorney General did I notice the emphasis that it was not an insult or something other than a common citizen. It's a cover-up, a fake document by a Ukrainian national deputy. And I would very much like this particular accent, which did not appear in the Minister's speech and in the Deputy Chief of the Security Service's speech, to have a place in further investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u95	I invite the head of the State Committee on Liaison and Information to the rostrum, please. Well, then, let's get everyone out of the way, then we'll be done. Let them out! Mikola Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u96	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! To implement the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the State Liaison and Information Committee of Ukraine has conducted a service investigation into the fact that a false open letter has been distributed through the network of the state-owned enterprise Krašta. Its objective is an objective assessment of the actions of employees in terms of their responsibility in accordance with Ukraine's legislation and competence to the defined internal documents of the enterprise. The investigation was conducted with the participation of the most experienced and qualified professionals in the field, verified facts, documents, and necessary explanations. All necessary materials have been transferred to the Attorney General’s Office, the Security Service, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It has been established that the basis for the contract for the delivery of the material was a letter from the Director of Processing and Transport of Mail from Panasevic Nina Volodymyrovna, director of a limited-liability society called the Ukrainian Television Agency, requesting the delivery of unaddressed advertising and information materials. On February 5, this year, on the basis of the standard form, the number 301 agreement was signed between the Ukrainian state-owned firm Krašta in person of the director of the Directorate for Processing and Transporting of Mail to Nenka Leonida Fedorović, the contractor, the limited-liability company "The Ukrainian Television Company" in the person of director Panasević Inni Volodymyrovnýný, the contractor. According to the contract, the contractor must perform the work of delivering 900,000 copies of non-addressed advertising materials in accordance with the customer's distribution scheme. The contract amounted to 35,000, 788 and a half. When the contract was signed, "Krošta" was governed by articles 21 and 27 of the Ukrainian Act "On Business in Ukraine" and article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On Postal Relations". The contract states that the contracting authority for the delivery of advertising and information materials is the society mentioned. Paragraph 5.2 of the Treaty provides that the customer is responsible for the content of advertising and information materials. On February 7th, with the aim of ensuring that the contract was met in a timely manner, the Post Processing and Shipping Directorate informed the Director of marketing and implementation of the services of the Post Directorate-General, Ivanov Vladimir Ivanovich, of the conclusion of the contract. In turn, John’s typical letter told the district director of the post office about the contract made, its implementation, and its responsibility under the terms of the contract. The audit established that the Director of Processing and Transport of Mail acted within the limits of the legislation and powers entrusted to him by the Director-General of Crucifixion of 26 March 2002, in accordance with the position on the Directorate-General and the Charter of Crucifixion. The facts of the breach. No legislation or abuse of office has been found. I'm sorry that this situation, this situation, has arisen, and Crosby has become a hostage to the gaps in the legal field. In order to avoid such cases, we are actively working in several directions and, above all, it is the development of proposals to improve the legislation on the distribution of information products. Today, Shortmail doesn't even have the right to ask the customer to document the authenticity of the information that is being distributed. We believe that we need to work together with you, the honourable Ukrainian national deputies, at the legislative level to address the issues of interaction and the responsibilities of the parties when distributing information products through the postal network. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I look forward to your understanding of the problems that have been raised and your fruitful cooperation on the legislative basis that will help solve the problems that I have put forward. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u97	Yes, if you have any questions, please sign up, dear colleagues. On the board, please. Please explain. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, I am convinced that in order for the second time not to take the floor, we have to ask the question that in the first week of our work here, sessionary, we have listened to the second representative and put some point in this. If we leave all of this in a suspended state, it sows even greater misery in society. That's the first one. The other one. I think that we, the legislators, should intervene on the other side. This, indeed, is what Piscoon, the Attorney General, gave us this bill, would have to be considered in turn. And secondly, I've put in a draft supplement on communication, a supplement that has no right to distribute any of these documents without the output. How do you feel about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u99	I think we're going to support these proposals. I've already said in my speech that we will. Now we've made a number of proposals, and those proposals that you've made, too, I mean the Attorney General's proposals that we really need to do this because the mail in this situation is a hostage of this situation that was created. Mail is delivery technology, I repeat, postal technology.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u100	Victor Terrence, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u101	Thank you. Victor Terrence, Yulia Tymoshenko block. Dear reporter, on the one hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u102	I'm asking for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u103	One side. Please, keep it down. On the one hand, mail really shouldn't do political censorship, you're right. On the one hand, you really did have the courage and the difference between our "feeling sick" and taking in a thousand quotes, the Attorney-General's name, and that gives you the honor. But on the other hand, even though you don't do political censorship, you shouldn't do it. Are there any conclusions today? Because here's a document, in Kirilczuk, where there are thousands of these cards in the cities. In particular, you've seen what political corruption is. Do you understand any conclusions, even though someone's off the job? And under personal control, report to something like this about doing it. And here's the name of the postman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u104	Thank you. Well, first of all, I'm asking you to send this letter to me after that. Secondly, I want to say that we were held on February 28th by a colleague who was looking at the work of Crucifixion and these questions. So I signed an order prohibiting the delivery of information and advertising products with political signs. These are the conclusions that are now being drawn. I hope that we will continue to do this work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u105	Yuri Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u106	Yuri Lucenko, Socialist Party of Ukraine First of all, I'd like to remind Mr. Smyrnov that Salov's lawyer, who allegedly found two fake newspapers called Voice of Ukraine, spent eight months in the U.S.S.A., got five years on probation, and then just got justice. So when it comes to protecting Kuchma's interests, you know how to plant people, and here we are from the rostrum, and you can't lie. Now to Mr. Potter. Mr. Gonchar, you're saying that Krašta became a hostage of the gap in the right field, and I think Krašta became a hostage of the moral waste of the leaders, of you personally and of Mr. Ivanov as the leader of the Crucifixion. When he signed an agreement on the distribution of printed products, did he not see that there was no output on this card, no printer, no customer, no sales? Where was he looking, and where were you looking? Who signed the four-piece distribution agreement if the letter costs at least 10 copies? Who are these preferences for, Mr. Medvedchuk, perhaps, or not? The third question is why the high-ranking visa was under personal control. Don't you think it's a political order, Mr. Reporter. You and the head of the Crucifixion have today, if you are honest and decent, to declare your resignation. And your fate must be decided by the President. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u107	I think about the question of delivery, payment, it was out of line, I repeat, there are tariffs set. When it comes to address delivery, it's really 45 copies. This is the first time. Secondly, I'd like to tell you more, Mr. People's Commissioner Lucenko, I think we're going to continue to work with you and the law and so on. But what is Crusher? Crucifixion is a structure that is now surviving. Because 46 percent, none of the money in the budget, 46 percent of the revenue in the mail is non-standard revenue in the mail. What does that mean? Honey, yes, the powder, the medicine in the mail. I'm sorry, this is the only structure right now. And the 47,000 mailmen that are now, that should be taken into account. 130 bucks is what they are. What should they do? So I want to say again, 75 million was. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u108	I'm asking you to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u109	75 million were delivered in 2002. Unaddressed advertising and information 75 million. In 2001, it was 25. This mail survives, thinks how to survive. You're asking a different question right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u110	Thank you, sit down. Have a seat, please. Please, have a seat. Please, let's calm down. Let's calm down. For what reason do you raise your hands? To whom? Time's up. With a motive, please. Or procedure? I can't understand what you want from me? Five minutes, from procedure and motive, please. We cannot satisfy everyone at once. Why do you have the word? Why you? We've been in for five minutes. Please point it on the board. Pomorenko Georgie, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u111	Masenko, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u112	Masenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u113	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, head of Crucifixion, is so rarely present in the hall that only a little time, I haven't been able to ask a question. So what I'm interested in is that the mass of voters comes from the fact that in different locations, the post office is delivered once or twice a week. How long is this going to be, and how long is this going to cancel out? And in connection with this question that is being discussed, I wonder how often these contract cards were delivered during the week? Were they delivered each day, or could they also be delivered on specified days? Let him answer it anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u114	Alexander Baranowski, please, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u115	Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists. I'd like a word with Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u116	Alexander Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u117	I address all of you and, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, including you. If we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u118	Just a minute, Alexander Alexander. I'm asking you, please, honourable national deputies, well, be tolerant at least. I'm asking you all to take your seats. Please release the head of the State Committee, let him take his place. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to demonstrate endurance, tolerance and morality. Please take your seats. Honorable National MPs. Stephen Ilkovich Cloud, well, I'm asking you, well, you can sit down, give yourself a chance or not to continue working. Dear colleagues, please, Mikola Viktorovich, take your seats, do not hold a rally here, please, take your seats. Can you sit down or not? I ask the head of the State Committee to approach the presidency, please. [[Oh, come on, what kind of trial is this? You Demonstrate Tolerance]] . Please take your seats. Alexander Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u119	Dear fellow MPs! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! We heard four reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u120	I'm asking the head of the committee to step out of the session room, please. Everyone, please take your seats. Alexander Aleksanrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u121	I'm finishing my opinion, please. I still have a minute. Note this. Now we've got four heads of state service spitting into our soul. Everyone understands that this case can be investigated by a police lieutenant in two hours. And the four leaders all raised their hands, unable to investigate. This means that they well know who ordered this provocation. And we must bring this matter to an end. We can't get out of control, otherwise we can't do anything here in Parliament. That's the first one. The other one. This is another testimony to the need to change the system of power so that the heads of ministries and departments are subordinated to the Supreme Council, otherwise there will be no respect for the law. And finally. The purpose of the matter was made clear by the head of the Liaison Committee. He said that he had already instructed us not to transmit information of political significance. And who will make an assessment of political meaning or not political meaning? So it turns out, now the President can't say hello to the New Year, because that's the political content of the document and so on. There will be a selective approach and I would like to go back to this issue with control after this case is investigated to the end. You can't put her down on the brakes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u122	Thank you. Victor Andryovich Yushchenko and we will finish. All of it. You guys calm down. We're already working more than we got 20 minutes. Calm down. Mikola Tikhovitch, did you wake up or something?Oh, my God! Please, Victor Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u123	Dear colleagues! Dear friends! I would like to address those who were standing in this rostrum and say that I may have become very ashamed today. I wanted to address you, dear friends, gentlemen of the officers, but I have no right to say this right now. But the thing that you do, if you want to, if you understand what this is all about, it's a matter that's decided in any Kyiv yard by a boy 7 years old. Ask him who ordered who's coordinating this show that's going on in Parliament. And he'll give you the answer. Why is it important that there be a dot, so - called officers? If you don't have the material, I'm ready to hand it over. I just don't believe you'll handle these materials as well as the officers. What's the problem, ladies and gentlemen? You're being held hostage by the entire country! It is done through your hands! And that's why. I hope that my word will be properly translated, without a mother. No matte. And so the question, Your Honor, is to have a dot in this discussion, so that we can put a needle under one person's ass. It's not a fake, it's the essence of Ukrainian politics! That's what she is, every day, from morning to evening. So, dear friends, if you don't have enough of your strength, tell me that you're helpless, I'm prepared with the appropriate materials, including parallel press coverage, and you'll be handed over to see how you're going to deal with them. So far, thank you so much for such dishonest work!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u124	Dear national deputies, there is such an offer. I'll give you a line, I've offended you, I'm sorry. Calm down, I'll give it to you, calm down. Dear colleagues, there is such an offer. We are now to be entrusted to the Committee on the Law Enforcement. We're discussing this subject, your honor, an hour and 10 minutes, so let's do it. I say again, let's or vote and we'll discuss this again, there's no objection. Let's get in the right direction, let's get the committee to make a proposal on what time we're going to go back to the final consideration of this issue. Yes, Volodymyr Romanovich, did I understand your offer? Is there no objection? Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. For consideration, the draft Law on State Regulations for Releases and Lottery and Money Games is being promulgated. Please, Oleg Petrov. Out of procedure, Melnik Mikola Eutychyevich. Please, sit down! Well, there was a proposal and a leader of the Viktor Andriovich Yushchenka faction. What will this give us now, this discussion? I'm asking you again, calm down! Prepare a verdict, then we'll vote if it comes to that. I want us to keep working. No, it's not. Please, the microphone of the Melnik Mikoli Eutychyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u125	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm told not to touch anyone. I mean, dear friends, I obey my party leaders, so I don't speak. Actually, I wanted to say something. What commission? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u126	The draft Law on State Regulations for the Release and Conduct of Lottery and Money Games is being announced for consideration. Reporter Oleg Petrov. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like everyone to calm down, because the point of the project is that we're going to have a significant impact on the coming to the state budget and, in my opinion, that's no less a major issue that's been discussed before. Dear colleagues! No civilized state is left out of a business where huge money is being turned. In the United Europe, there was a lottery monopoly in 1947 - 1999, Germany, England, and France. In Italy, the national lottery brings $4.5 billion to the country’s annual budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u128	Please, calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u129	Of these, 25 percent are used for social needs. By 1985, the Soviet Union was 14th in the world, and in 1992 the Russian Federation launched the “Lotto-Million” Olympic Committee on Sports and Foreign Investors. The Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation allocated about $80 million to develop a lottery in Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u130	Oleg Volodymyrovich, one minute. Dear, distinguished national MPs! Dear National Deputies! I ask, if there is no one who wants to continue to work, to hold a rally in the back of the session hall, to give others the opportunity to work. I beg your attention, well, dear colleagues. Dear National Deputies! Well, you can't. Be tolerant. I'm asking you. Mikola Eutychyevich, please, I apologized to you, so let's keep working. Please. Well, please, keep it down. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u131	I'm going on. In Poland there has always been a state monopoly on lottery business. There's an online lottery system in 92. As a result, the sales volume from 91 to 97 increased by 20 times and made up 500 million. That's what I'm talking about. And I want to focus your attention on the fact that there are two operators in Poland, but only one actually sells tickets. The Polish government is considering leaving him alone in the market. The same situation in other countries - Sweden, Switzerland and others. We cannot ignore this important matter. More than 200 million were sold in Ukraine at the time. Tickets per year. But on December 21, 1990, the Ukrainian Council of Ministers adopted a decree that created conditions for a large number of uncontrolled lotteries. Already in 91-95, 92 lottery operators worked on the domestic market. Today, there are far fewer than one and a half dozen of them holding private and five - state lotteries. Most of the operators are the Ukrainian National Lottery and the Youth Sportlot. Both companies have foreign investments because modern lottery technologies require serious investment. At the same time, the profits of operators are not large enough to form prize funds capable of involving a large part of the population. Then their work is not effective enough. This is because about 10 percent of Ukrainians play the lottery constantly, 40 percent from time to time. Another 20 percent are willing to test fate. Perhaps the latter are warned about the opaque operation of most operators and the actual lack of mechanisms to control their finances. The market is full of lotteries, but the increase in the number of operators does not lead to a significant increase in sales and budgeting. In 2001, the total sales volume of legal state lotteries was about 220 million. The amount of money paid from this tax to the State budget was 34 million dollars. Compared with other countries in Ukraine, there is little income from this type of activity. In the income part of Ukraine's State budget, in the year when the lottery revenue was 50 million dollars, we included 75 million dollars with you in the current year. That's right. However, experts believe that this profit should be at least twice as high. So the state has an opportunity without increasing its own spending to get enough money to solve pressing socio-economic issues. In view of the importance of the lottery state, understanding the need for a state monopoly on lottery activity and the redistribution of profits through the budget, the President of Ukraine issued a decree on certain measures to regulate lottery activity. In order to bring this issue in line with legislation, a group of national MPs has drafted a bill to regulate the state’s output activities and to conduct lottery and money games. The proposed draft law is intended to strengthen the state control of the lottery market, increase the profits of the consolidated budget, introduce a state monopoly on lottery distribution and lottery production, i.e. the project only provides for the issuance of state lotteries to finance the government budget deficit. Unstated lotteries are strictly prohibited. A rule is proposed that the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine is the organizer of the national lottery, which issues a licence for each individual. This government agency should keep a single lottery register, make decisions on the economic relevance or purposelessness of each type of lottery. There are also provisions under which a state lottery cannot contain the conditions under which expenditure on the organisation and payment of the prize fund is made on the basis of the national budget of the State-owned State funds or funds for the acquisition of public administrations or its established institutions, organizations and enterprises. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm another minute because they took a little. In order to prevent the creation of financial pyramids, it is prohibited to pay the prizes at the expense of the funds received by the state lottery operators in credit and loan, trust authority, other than the sale of lottery tickets to the lottery " Chances" and the operator's own funds free of liability. Loss of confidence in at least one lottery or operator will have a serious impact on the market. To guarantee the reliability of players’ contributions, the draft law provides certain requirements for state lotteries operators. It can be only legal persons who are residents of Ukraine with their own capital, no less than the minimum size of a commercial bank. This is roughly, we think, 5 million euros.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you understand? Is there a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u133	Well, I've got some left.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u134	Just a minute. Is there a question? If so, please sign in. We need to take a few more important documents, take a look. Light up on the board. Basil Nadrag, please. Five minutes to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u135	Distinguished Oleg Vladimirović, and today how many non-State lotteries are in total? And there's actually a difference between public and non-state lotteries today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u136	Thank you for asking. The point is, to date, all lottery numbers are non-State. And today, the State is not regulating the market. I would like to emphasize that in the law we wish to separate the issue of an operator from that of public administration. The State must exercise the State monopoly on the organization of the lottery and the distribution of money. Operators are required to conduct the lottery business on a competitive basis. It's business and government. So to date, we want to share these concepts because today the process and the lottery market are uncontrollable. You can see it in lotteries and lottery television all over the lotteries. Only in the budget did 34 million of us get it. And this is almost zero.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u137	Yes, Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u138	Dear Oleg Volodymyrovich, I understand that the lotteries that play give a certain amount of revenue to the budget. Last year, 50 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u139	Planned. And the coming was 34.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u140	50, 34 were scheduled. Seventy-five is scheduled for this year. Well, 34 million. Is it worth all this work, so much noise, and there are huge moral damage in general? I actually think that lotteries and games are an immoral thing. What do we train in people, how do we feel? We appeal to the lowest feelings of the human being, to get a lot of money for nothing. It's cheating people on the side of the state, and then those who run the lottery are also cheating on these people. Why are we being deceived on such a massive scale? Would it be better for us to live without it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u141	I want to say that on the moral side, I will not argue with you or enter into a discussion. This life has spoken without us. Because the same Italy 2.5 billion takes from lottery to budget, 25 percent goes for socio-economic needs, and lives normally, God give us, as they say, reach out. The question, yes, the question to us, the question to us is that we want to introduce this law to regulate the lottery business so that the state has a monopoly, and the state gets the money out of it. And whether we want it or not, today the lotteries will exist. And the question here is that today there is an unregulated market, and today in every village, you know, in every city, there are lotteries going to every holiday, they don't put a penny in the budget today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u142	Yes, Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u143	Dear Oleg Vladimirovich, I am very pleased to ask you a question, you are an MP from my homeland, my village Vishenko is one. And I have this question, I know it can't be for you, but the second one will be for you. These are the lotteries that torture people today who were sold in the '90s, and they don't come back to people today. You don't know when we're gonna pay these people back or what they won at the lottery? And the most serious question here is yours, what is the level of profitability of this lottery business that you are now offering? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u144	Thank you for asking Olga Petrovna. First of all, I do not offer or count the level of profitability. The process goes unmanaged, whether we want it or not. That's the first one. And we want this process to stop the State from interfering and specifically counting the profitability, the income and saying that the people are the rules of the game, the State needs so much, you need to earn so much. Today, the rules of the game are unfortunately not built on the market. And what you're talking about, what you're talking about in Chernigovina, is that there's a lotteries for each holiday. It's completely uncontrollable, as the tax ruling says, it's supposed to be for people, but it's building a pyramid. We understand perfectly what it is, building a pyramid, so much fun money, so much so there. If you build a pyramid, it'll depend on morality, as our colleague asked me. I mean, one will do the right thing, and one will do the right thing, and the other, like that movie, Popandopalo will do the right thing. This law clearly states that the State regulates this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u145	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u146	Dear reporter! Of course, the process that really is chaotic in the lottery lotthorn market or whatever, the lochotrons will be called. But, you see, you're only introducing a state lottery. So it's poorly regulated, because, look. I don't mind, by the way, that would be normal. However, we still need to anticipate a private initiative, so - called. Well, they play in the West in bingo, in churches. Is that a lottery or not? They win, they lose. How are we going to regulate this? I understand that this is a global, even bigger issue. But you can't get too close here and say it's a state monopoly. Then we need to move on to tobacco and alcohol, which, by the way, is also good, but this should be clearly reflected in this bill. The bill provides an absolute monopoly and a moratorium on the private lottery.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u147	Thank you. Mr. Andrey, you've raised three such questions. First. It's going to go on with the tobacco and all that. We made an interfractional group called Health of the Future. This is precisely the question that some rules of the game need to be introduced. But we'll get back to that. This project, and we had a conversation here with government representatives, maybe not very perfect, or maybe it's actually imperfect. But today the story of this project has been the fourth year. More than that, Catherine Semenovna points out. In the previous call, we made a compromise, and it was called the "Lotteries and Games Act." Exactly. And "bingo" is all playful. We're taking the first step to that, we're making a law on state regulation of the lottery. We have to settle the number lottery today, and then I think we're going to have to take other steps. And that's exactly what we want to do today. And the fact that he was on the rostrum for the first time in four years, whether Peter, John, or anyone there to report, is already a step taken by the Supreme Council of this calling. Because three and a half years later, in his third call, he didn't even go through the committee. You all realize that today, whoever has a lottery business, they all understand that this law will lead to this. Also, like your question about tobacco and all that. This is also a question to be considered today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u148	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Time's up. Victor Kaputsin from the committee, please. If you don't mind, just for a little while, because we need more.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u149	Dear National Deputies! After the emotions that have been in the room, it's hard to move on to a routine law that we're currently considering, but I think it's very important because it regulates a very important financial market sector in our country. And my colleague Petrov has now given a very detailed account of the essence of this law. I don't see why I should repeat what he said right now. I just want to say that the committee has considered this law, and it has been very carefully considered on the committee for a long time. Finally, it was decided to support it. I know he's imperfect, we've discussed all the problems that arise in the text of this law and all the imperfect moments that can be solved when we prepare him for second reading. But my colleague Petrov is right that we talked about this law for four years and we should finally adopt it. So we suggest that we take it as a basis in the first reading in order to create a working group and take into account all these suggestions that will be made by the national deputies when preparing for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u150	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Oh, is there a question? Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u151	Thank you. Victor Ivanovich, I don't think there's a reporter, and you haven't said the pros and cons of the bill. Let me try. Negative. It only regulates Minfin. In order to obtain a license, you realize that no one will give anything for free now. That's the first negative. Second negative. If the state lottery alone won one, they lost hundreds. Hundreds of people are offended by the state, because it's a state right now. Do you understand? I would like this context to be clarified in one way or another. Remember, at one time even this was the saying, “Never gamble with the state. ” Right now we're trying to get people to gamble with the Ukrainian state. It seems to me that it was a little bit more flexible to come up with this issue and not get this sector completely. But that's my point of view, but believe me, the negatives are there and there's plenty. I'd still like you to comment on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u152	You know, I think the Ukrainian people are still playing gambling with the state, whether the state is a lottery organizer or not, on other issues I mean. But whether people lose the lottery will be offended. Well, of course, they're always offended by who's the organizer or the operator of this lottery. I don't see any harm here. The imperfections you're talking about, they really do have a place in this law, but we need to take the first step. We have to say that this segment of the market needs regulation and we have to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u153	Mikola Rudzkowski, please. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u154	Please tell me, how much do you predict will the government budget increase if we enter a state-run, just a state-run lottery? And another question. I understand that this question will go with great difficulty across the hall, because some of the national deputies here are personally interested in this. What is your point of view that the arguments for this group of deputies can be convincing?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u155	You know, if someone is personally interested in something, there's no argument other than their own interest in it. So it's going to depend on which part of the MP Corps is going to be interested, which is not. If most are not interested, this document can be passed, this bill can be passed. As for the government budget, the previous speaker spoke about it and the question was from the Hall that the coming is not very large to the state budget, but they are. I think at the very earliest, they might even go down because the sector is going to be a little bit smaller, the gaming sector, the lottery sector is going to be a little bit smaller, but still, confidence in the state in people is greater than in private organizers. I think that's finally going to be equal to, these are going to be equal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u156	Thank you, sit down, please. Let's move on to the discussion. We signed up for the performance, let's see, 10 minutes to talk, Yuri Carmazin. Get ready for Andrew School. Dear colleagues, we continue to work for 15 minutes, if there is no objection, to consider another project that concerns the youth support program.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u157	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! The noble people of Ukraine! Today, there is talk of where to find money for existence and how to protect the people. I would like to thank all the authors by name, both Peter and Samuel and Tsuko and Pavelekka, others who have signed this law on the state regulation of the release and the conduct of lottery and money games. Look, less than our country, Poland gets, last year, 600 million euros. 600 million euros! That's three and a half billion dollars for our money, and the country is smaller than Ukraine. That we don't have that money? On about the same scale they can speak they walk, only they are in certain clans. I can tell you who's behind the lottery and who's on which TV is doing it and how it's doing it. So this shadow money that the Court of Auditors today has concluded that only 90 million dollars have not been paid, but only 34 million have been taxed in 2001, is the money that needs to be removed from the shadow that needs to be given to the Ukrainian people to survive. So I'm definitely in favour of accepting this, and I realize that there are problems in legislative regulation. We may be matured to install a monopoly on both vodka and tobacco, because money is unmeasured, the nation is singing. The vodka is cheaper than some mineral water! Look at the price of Borjomi and the price of vodka is cheaper! Where is the Ministry of Economics here, or does Mr. Horoshkovsky have his own interests in government? I'm going to Yanukovic -- get the economy minister to do economics, look for money for the state, not to do business projects! You have to get others to look for money for the budget, not the MPs. The MPs should thank you. And this law needs to be adopted as quickly as possible and not to be afraid of anyone and nothing to look at. How civilized Europe does it. You've been given an example of Italy, and I've given you an example of Poland, and so in other countries it's done -- both in France, and in the Netherlands, and in other countries. There is, of course, a point I will make during the second reading, a point I have here from half a hundred, legal questions, but, nevertheless, the law has to be passed and faster! We'll take it this month, we'll have the money in the fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u158	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u159	I would like to stress, of course, that this bill has a lot of claims to it as a bill. There's a lot of inaccuracies, disagreements, including there's a lot of -- the lottery becomes statehood after the issue of the license, and there's a certain type of inclusion in the standard contract. It's hard to understand what the authors were going to say in this situation. But what I would like to do is first of all explain to the people's deputies, and most importantly, to the radio audience what government regulation is. I'm not opposed to being a private lottery, by the way, but why is there no budget receipt? Because it's very easy to hide profits and pay nothing in the state budget from the private lottery. It's very easy to do that. It's a state lottery, but it's more complicated. And that's why government regulation is necessary here. The only thing I would recommend to the drafters is to write that with a huge amount of restrictions, a huge amount of restrictions, and a huge contribution to pay for it, it's a private lottery, but when there's government regulation. So the state is watching a lotteries or a lotteries. It monitors, does not necessarily have to be State intervention in this field of business, because I am no longer talking about profits. Imagine, the Spanish lottery has a jackpot of 2.5 million euros, it's only one win, and we're talking about. State lottery. And we're talking about 3-4 million unfortunate people who are coming or not coming into the budget. So I emphasize, and I want to make it clear that state regulation, it shouldn't just be a monopoly, it should be a monopoly not to commit a crime in the lottery business. This is most important, and there is nothing to be afraid of, for the state must regulate the profits of its most prominent and financially opportune objects. In fact, tobacco and alcohol were mentioned here. Because when we talk about budgeting, where should we find the funds? And there's literally an opportunity for you to take it from the lottery business. And once again, every player, it's very good that they're not included here this time. Because playing games is one thing, and lotteries are another. The lottery is never lost by the lottery organizer. And whoever doesn't have to lose doesn't have to lose the state. The participants? Of course, there is a moral side. I completely agree. The most popular lotteries in poor countries. You can understand that the most popular lotteries are in Colombia, Peru, Ecuador, and Ukraine. But there, despite all the shortcomings of their legislation, it is regulated by the state. [[Peru, Colombia, Ecuador]] In Ukraine, if we want to have a civilized relationship inside and inside the state, and we need to have civil relations with us, we need to exercise state control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u160	Vladimir Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u161	Dear colleagues, the presence of lotteries and money games is a testimony to the perfection of human nature. But since God created us in this way, there must be, as they say, a gain. Who gets the lottery money and the games? At least it's coming to the State budget, 34 million last year. If you sell the devil's soul, well, at least it's more expensive. Faust sold his soul to the devil for Marguerite. You can still understand it. If we're running lottery games, let's at least secure the budget. There's been a massive fraud on the part of those who organize it on the part of the state. And the population loses money in the end, and we have huge moral losses when we have a pensioner or a retired grandmother watching on TV, like every week a jackpot has a million dollars, two million dollars, she gets a pension of 70 dollars, and there's not a million dollars. Well, that's a lot of moral damage. But once again, if there is such an activity, let's settle it in such a way that there's no fraud and there's a budget coming in. What is proposed by this law? This law introduces a monopoly on lottery and money games. This is ambiguous because it's not about government regulation, it's about gaining. And then the state actually assumes responsibility, but at the same time Minfin will do it, the officials will take bribes, as they can do little in coming to the budget. So I think that in view of the fact that this sphere of activity exists, it needs to be regulated, but this law needs to be written much better, written so that there is no fraud and that the budget will grow, not in the pockets of fraudsters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u162	Vladimir Kirilovich, there's something else in the song. From a famous song there. For which a person can sell his life. Peter Prashenko, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs Well, what can I do? Very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u163	Dear colleagues! I would certainly like to support the need to adopt this bill, because this area of activity requires an immediate legislative settlement. But my presentation is to build on the impact on the budget. I would like to remind you that the 2003 budget for Ukraine is 75 million dollars. And if we apply this bill, we accept it, and it goes into effect in the current year, that will certainly lead to a reduction in the budget revenue in the current year. That is, we need to either take appropriate changes to the budget or put it into effect as of 1 January 2004, because the first year is going to see a serious reduction in the budget revenue. The other one. I wanted to draw the attention of the drafters to the idea that when we talk about support, it's only about support in the first reading. Because, for example, in accordance with Article 6(6).1 of the statement that the lottery organizer is the Ministry of Finance is the guarantor of the winning prizes, because any legal person, the host subject, in fact Minfin will assume responsibility for the operator-hosting entity in accordance with the project. Of course, this is extremely dangerous to the budget, contrary to the budget code, contradicts the logic of the budgetary process. And so, I'm sure that in general The bill is acceptable, it needs to be redrafted at the second reading stage. And our committee will be able to make appropriate additions to this bill. I would also like to draw attention to what is defined among the types of lotteries that are held in real time online. In fact, it's a lottery technology, not a lottery type, because today there's a world practice and it's allogeneic to refer to lottery types of other kinds of lotteries. Paragraph 6.1.1., paragraph 6.1.4. is a serious contradiction to the Budget Code, and paragraph 6.5 is not in line with the Budget Code at all, since the State lottery is established to finance the deficit of the State budget. We are confident that today the drafters of the bill will be able to meet the requirements of the Budget Code, reconcile it with legislation, settle it, because in this extremely sensitive area today we have a large number of abuses, and after that the bill will be adopted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u164	Thank you. The draft Law on State Rules for Release and Performing Lottery and Money Games has been completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. The draft Act approving the National Youth Support Programme 2003-2008 is being announced for consideration. A brief procedure for dealing with the matter, as agreed on by the Conciliation Council. Reporter: Head of the State Committee on Family Affairs and Young Valentina Ivanovna Longzhenko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u165	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Honourable People's Deputies! Please support the National Youth Support Programme 2003-2008 in the first reading of the draft Law. We worked on this bill with the National Deputies and with representatives of other central executive bodies, with public organizations. For the first time in Ukraine, after the adoption of the Youth Policy Declaration, a conceptual, systemic, general document determines the direction in which youth policy should be developed and implemented. The basis for the drafting of this bill was the study of scientific, sociological, which was done by our institute, and we distributed it to all the deputies during the parliamentary hearings. Of course, we worked very closely with the people’s deputies in the working order. We've received hundreds of suggestions from you that we've partly taken into account. I just want to emphasize that this is a conceptual document, and most of the proposals that come to us are concrete. And the mechanism for the implementation of the National Youth Support Programme is the annual development of the Cabinet of Ministers with the participation of representative authorities, public organizations with very specific measures to implement youth policy. These specific measures for 2003, including your suggestions, have already been developed. In the coming years, they will also be developed at a time when the budget will be developed, so that they can be adopted along with the budget. Given that this bill has been discussed in great detail during parliamentary hearings, I am grateful to the people's deputies who participated in the parliamentary hearings, given that all the local authorities have considered this conceptual draft law, and we have, well, Eastern thoughts and positions with our professional committee of the Supreme Council, I ask you once again and very much to support, in the first reading, we will work on it and we will adopt this law, which will form the basis for the development of annual concrete measures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u166	Sit down, Valentina Ivanovna. Thank you. Catherine Timofievna Samojlik. Catherine Semenovna, excuse me, is the head of the Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sport, and Tourism. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u167	I'll also be brief, I'll say that we've been calling the Cabinet of Ministers in the past to get the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to give us this national validation program, because it's completely unclear why there's no such document in our country. And this document, the draft national programme, we discussed during the parliamentary hearings, during the meeting of the leaders of youth organizations and movements with the Head of the Supreme Council and our committee of profile. Indeed, there have been many, more than 200 suggestions from the leaders of youth organizations and from Ukrainian national deputies. In fact, the project that we've been given today deserves work, so, for example, the profile committee thinks that this program provides 10 directions for the implementation of the youth program, and we think that we can't do it right now, that's all. "to embrace the unfathomable." So we suggest, the committee proposes to set priorities, three or four priorities. How? They're the main ones. This is to foresee a mechanism for the realization of the right to work, the right to housing, the right to education, the right to a healthy way of life. So first we're taking four directions, so we're taking these 10-12 directions in the term, because we're not going to be able to do all of that right now. Next. The Profile Committee believes that we need to work out the mechanism for implementing this concept, which will be set in the first part. We have to write out clearly what the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should do to implement the main directions that regional government administrations should do and what the Supreme Council of Ukraine should do. We have received many comments. We are working on them, grateful to the national deputies of Ukraine. Moreover, we believe that all should join in the preparation of a national youth support programme for second reading: both the Science and Education Committee, and the Economic Committees, and so on. Then, indeed, it will be a national youth support program.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u168	Thank you, Catherine Seed. Now we're going to do two pro's, two go against. Do we have a pro? They signed up for Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u169	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine, Solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, the program of action is extremely important, but it is overlooked that the first job should be presented here, and it is overlooked and written that 17.5 per cent of youth unemployment, especially rural unemployment, is written, and rural youth have 70 per cent unemployment, unfortunately, and that in general is 17.5. But it's about not having to take this program. We need to eliminate the nonsense that's being done. Look, in Cherkastina, Katernopolski district, Suha Kaligirka. Two hundred thousand bracelets were planned for the maintenance of the school, not for repairs. Is that wise? For the purpose of physical exercise, the mat is 28 years old. There are no physical devices, no physical devices. Whom do we raise, slaves? In order not to raise slaves, I will make my own proposals. And I would like to fill it with concrete meaning. Now, if I were to ask the head of the youth party, Yuri Samylenko, he knows better than anyone else what young people need. Please, on account of my time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u170	On account of your time. Are you in or out? That's for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u171	Dear colleagues! Yuri Pavlenko, head of the youth party, faction of our Ukraine. I realize we're already working out of time, so I'm going to talk very briefly. Indeed, I want to confirm the thesis that the work on the national program was carried out for a very long time, in detail and thoroughly. Indeed, I support those suggestions that at the second reading stage we need to find real mechanisms to put it into practice and really solve the underlying problems. Although I don't think we need to focus exclusively on four issues, because there are really much more problems in young people today. So I would ask the National Deputies to support the National Program and the Youth Party and the Interfractional Union of the New Generation, which the Supreme Council also supports the adoption of this program. That is what Pauline said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u172	I'm for protocol. For the transcript, I will say that the national deputy Yuri Pavlenko spoke. Váchaslav Kirilenko, are you in favour? For. Who's against it? None. So we're done talking about this. Stanislaw Nikolainka, are you in? Please turn on the microphone. Against? No, we're two for, two for.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u173	Nikolainko, faction of the Socialist Party, head of the Committee on Science and Education. Our committee has discussed this issue in detail at its meeting, and we are firmly opposed to the position of young people in Ukraine today. It's unemployment, it's that they can't learn today at the expense of the state, what we have is a pay-per-view education and training system. And that's why our committee, as a result of these discussions, is still behind this program, and then we're going to work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u174	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who's against it? None. Do you mind? National member of the Shurma v., please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u175	Shurma, Ukrainian National Deputy, Ukrainian Social Democratic Party. [[united]] Dear colleagues, I'd like to focus on what. Modern - day youths are people whose consciousness has already formed into post - Soviet space, people who have completely different values and perspectives. Today, these youths are witnessing the processes that are taking place in Ukraine today. I'm getting out of the position that youth policy in social-democrats is a priority, but we have to look at the things that are going on today, despite all the positive things that are going on. Today, youths are witnessing, in fact, the destruction of the foundation of the Ukrainian family. Mothers and fathers go abroad to survive. Today they have many and many questions: Is it possible to borrow loans for learning? Is there room for improvement? Today, youths and young families ask, How real is housing? Today, the student is left alone with his scholarship. Perhaps he looks to both the members of the Supreme Council and the government: How can 50 bracelets survive him today? Today, in 10 years of independence, we are witnessing an actual release of official data of 5 million. Ukrainian citizens, and in fact, according to unofficial data, this is more than 200 million. And these are usually young people, people with education that the state has spent money on. Today, young people need to be answered: What is in store for them today? Does this state need it? In our view, a major flaw is excessively general and not specific. In fact, it's not about the program, it's about listing the basics of youth policy. We're asking, what's Ukraine going to be like in 2010? It will be shaped by young people who are today, and they will see what the state has done for them in these five years. The program should contain specific tasks, deadlines and appropriate economic justification, and nothing. There are virtually no numbers available to track the execution of this program. We consider detailing and detailing the tasks of providing young families with housing and developing an education lending system to be particularly important and principle. I will give you the following data in the Lviv region: Since 1998, 10.7 million people have been allocated for housing. This year, as many as 500,000 of them have been allocated, and 260 thousand have been planned. This means that 2.6 families out of 200,000 in need of housing receive a residence of 2.6. So we think that the draft law is appropriate to return to the government for its careful refinement and refinement. Because without this program, it's not really going to do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u176	Dear colleagues, the draft law on the approval of the National Rural Youth Support Programme for 2003-2008 has been finalized. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. Is it your motive or your procedure? Please, Cibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u177	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I understand that the time for the evening session is running out. But several times before, Bill 2410, this is a government bill on some pension issues, and especially for a long time in the Supreme Council, there was Helen Vasilievna Garjača, who is the deputy secretary of the State on this issue. I'd like to take five minutes to consider this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u178	Is there no objection? Take it easy, Olena Vasilievna Hotch. Please. Well, please turn on the microphone while it's coming. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u179	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am not at all agreeable with the last speaker. First of all, how to say, detail about getting credit and getting credit for both education and housing, when it's regulated by law and written down there that you won't hit. Among other things, it is all there is. Now. With regard to the Lviv area, the financing of long - term loans to young people. Your area, I'd like to put you up to speed, takes second place in funding. That's millions of dollars. Please go to the Tsikhiv district of Lviv and see what homes are built for young people. You're just not in the material, you're just expressing your party's position, which isn't exactly the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u180	Please, Olena Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u181	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! This bill, which has been drafted by the government and introduced to your consideration, takes into account the very appeal of voters to national MPs and the appeal of national MPs to the government to resolve the issues that have arisen in the implementation of the Law on Local Self-Governmental Authorities. First of all, we're talking about three questions. I'll give them a quick name. First question. This is to settle the issue of retirement on the disability of the listed category. It is suggested that this issue be resolved at the level of how it is resolved for all other officials and executives, both in the Supreme Council and in other bodies. The second question. It is proposed that local self - government officials be given a pension when they reach the age of service, not the age of service, but when they reach the age of retirement established according to applicable legislation. If it's a miner in the past and he's 10 years undergraduate, it's a retirement 5 years early. If he was the decommissioner of the CHAES accident, he would also have retired earlier, having this status. The third question is the honourable national MPs. This is a settlement of the question of calculating the salary for the appointment of a pension to the elective staff. At the age of eight, elected workers may retire from the position of local self - government officials, and the question arises as to what kind of wage they pay for the appointment of a pension. We're offering the most optimal option -- the exact salary that came at the time of retirement in the same position. If that's the mayor's salary, the mayor's salary is at the moment of retirement. Ladies and gentlemen, our Committee on Veterans and Pensioners supports this bill of government. The scientific-expert conclusion also suggests that the bill is right to accept the Supreme Council and to make some suggestions on specific issues. The government agrees with these positions and we propose that this bill be adopted in the first reading to allow the proposals of the national deputies to be taken into account for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u182	Thank you, Helen Vasilovna, thank you, sit down, please. Peter Stepanovich, please head of the committee. Zibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u183	Dear colleagues! Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think that Helen Vasilovna has quite popularly explained the main content of this bill. We worked hard on it on the committee. There are, indeed, some observations from the Scientific and Scientific Administration, but they are aimed at improving the bill. I am fully aware that this document should be supported in the first reading, and I have taken this decision by the committee. I ask you to support him in the Hall of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u184	Dear colleagues, no objection? Please, Karmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich, from the place, if possible, to save time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u185	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear national MPs, distinguished people of Ukraine, I have a denial that is procedural in nature. I wanted to make a full-blown statement about this. The point is that the implementation of this bill requires 58.7 thousand. Money per year, although these changes need to be made. That is why I would suggest that the law enters into force, not since publication, as the authors of the law predicted, but could only enter into force on 1 January 2004. This will be in line with article 27 of the budget code in Ukraine, according to which the draft laws, which will increase expenditure or reduce budget revenues, are proposed for expenditure by the legislator, so we need to make changes to the budget immediately. What we're not ready to do is make changes to the budget now, and that's not what we need to do, is the government that will do it later. Our job now is to establish justice, and here's the right completely to report to Hotch, we need to support it, the law needs to be adopted. Only the End Position should be written, "The Law enters into force on January 1, 2004." Here's the deal. This will be in line with those laws that you and I have adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u186	Mikhail Kosov, please, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u187	Dear Helen Vasilovna! Last Thursday, we voted on the law reported by Suhi Jaroslav Mihajlovich. It was about the same standards that you reported to us today, about a government official who, after two election terms, that is, eight years, regardless of when he retires or when he's old age or older, still gets that amount of pension insurance that is currently available to an active official of that rank and that state contract that he was working for. So how does the law that you report today relate to what we have already adopted? Is there a misunderstanding or a repetition? What's all this for? We have to unify the law, after all.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u188	Are there any other speakers? No, it's not. Please, Olena Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, it is for the purpose of synchronization that we have made this proposal. The difference is that the State Service Act does not apply to employees of local self - government. And in order to be harmonised in these two laws, we propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u190	Thank you. Are there no more wanters? Yes, the matter is closed, we will make decisions on the day of the vote. Let's talk about it. One more question, if you don't mind. Dear colleagues, already our chairman of the committee, the State Committee on Technical Control and Consumer Policy, goes to our place of work every day. If not, would we listen briefly to him and determine the fate of the bill? There's no objection. Very briefly, please, Leonid Semenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u191	Thank you. Velmishan, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u192	Well, we've lost a lot of time today, so let's work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. I would like to report that the analysis of the situation in the consumer market of the country indicates that administrative legislation is flawed with regard to responsibility for the release and sale of nonstandard products. Article 168 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences provides for administrative responsibility for the release and sale of products that do not meet the requirements of standards, technical conditions and samples, standards for quality, complexity and packaging, which are still non-standard products. It affects only officials who work in retail businesses, organizations. In response to developments in Ukraine’s economy, market relations have developed new, previously nonexistent types of business entities. Businesses and organizations are not the only ones currently engaged in business activity but are also citizens of entrepreneurial activities. There has been a situation where a large number of business subjects in the field of trade have remained outside the scope of its law, the task of which is to avoid consumers of unconventional products. On the basis of the above, it was necessary to legally determine the responsibility of all business subjects in the field of trade. As a result, a draft Ukrainian law amending article 168 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences has been drafted by the Circumstances. Ukraine's draft law provides for the extension of administrative responsibility for the sale of non-standard products to employees of enterprises, institutions, organizations, regardless of the form of ownership and citizens of business entities. The proposed bill is in line with Mineconomy, Minusto, IMF.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u194	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u195	In addition, a project approved by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of law enforcement. The implementation of this law does not require additional material and other expenses, and the costs incurred for violating article 168 are included in Ukraine’s state budget in full. I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u196	Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, the essence of the bill has come to realize that the responsibility for unkind production must be borne by all state and non-state ownership representatives. I think it makes sense. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u197	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, honourable reporter, distinguished people of Ukraine! The question of amending article 168 of the Code of Administrative Offences is rightly raised. But, honourable national MPs, we have this code of patched-up, we need to adopt a new code and dedicate it to the south at least. This complexity is now lacking in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I call you to complexity, as we have done under the Antimonopoly Committee Act, where you have come together in a comprehensive manner, completely overstepped all legislation, brought it into line. That's what we have to do here, or we're going to kill the agenda with these questions. Of course, the adoption of this bill will allow for the administration not only of those officials of business enterprises but also of those officials of other business subjects and of individuals involved in business activities. I am addressing you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, commission a complex preparation, let the Supreme Council's apparatus do it, all the documents. We'll save time for the session, we'll save the state's money. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u198	Thank you. Well, this problem, in fact, exists in us and it's not as much a machine as our committees and the reconciliation of committee positions. Although that is the problem. Dear colleagues, is there anyone else you need to talk to? Well, then we agree that the consideration of this issue is over. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. And here's the last one. Our former colleague, Kostusev, is asking for a draft law amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine to decriminalize offences in the field of economic competition. It turns out that not everything was worked out here, Yuri Anatolyevich. Yeah, maybe just for a little while, too? It's very short. Huh? Kostusius. Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable national MPs, the President of Ukraine's decree on the main directions of competition policy for 2002-2004 is intended to remove from the Ukrainian Criminal Code certain offences in the field of economic competition that do not constitute a major social danger. To comply with this decree, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has developed a draft Ukrainian law for your consideration today on the amendment of the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine. Thus, the Law on the Protection of Economic Competition establishes responsibility, and I want it as quickly as possible. This bill is supported by a profile committee, and we, I would like to personally thank Musik Volodymira Romanovich, members of the Committee on Legislative Protection for their work on drafting a bill to be considered in the first reading. Please support the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine and adopt it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u199	Dear colleagues, the bill proposes to decriminalize certain offences in the field of economic competition that pose no major social danger. On the contrary, increase responsibility for the most dangerous crimes. This is the essence of the changes that are being proposed. Please have a seat. Yuri Anatoliyovich, your opinion, please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u200	Honorable National MPs. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. I think in principle it's very good that Alexiyyovich spoke today as a reporter. I understand that he was entrusted with the government. But the government should know that changes in the Criminal Code of Ukraine, in the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, and in general legal policy in the State should be reported by the Minister of Justice. And that's clear to everyone. Why we're breaking up today. I don't mind what Alexei Alexiyovich said. In principle, the favour of this bill is to decriminalize individual offences, but we need to decriminalize a lot in view of today's law enforcement practice. So again, I'm talking about the complexity of the approach and, again, the organization of our meetings. Let's not do that so that we change a few sentences of everything and put it in order of the day. Janukovic said a week ago that he was criticizing this government policy, and along with that, this policy continues. And I thought it was over, and my speeches might have been heard by the head of the government. I'd be happy if it were heard by the Prime Minister of Ukraine and we had a comprehensive approach. Because in an interview with him, I heard that he saw what a frost is, three lines of change, and we completely overturned the Supreme Council with these bills, and then today a speech like that of the Heads of the Liaison Committee, which says that these are legislative failures. And I want to protect the rights of the people's deputies. There were no legislative gaps. They just don't want to look for criminals. And here we have to make decisions, make decisions, but put two committees, the Legal Policy Committee, together with the Legislative Security Committee. I have an offer. Let's do it by accepting, we'll do it in the first reading, but we'll do it with two committees, because the Criminal Procedure Code belongs to the Committee on Legal Policy. Then it will be a professional consideration of the matter and a comprehensive consideration of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-04-m1.u201	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Is there no objection? The draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine on the Decriminalization of Offences in the Field of Economic Competition was then reviewed. The decision will be made on the day of the vote, taking into account the suggestions made today. The evening session of the Supreme Council is closed. I am truly grateful for your productive work. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. The issues identified by Wednesday’s meeting schedule will be considered. Good-bye.
