ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:52]] Registered -427 There are 427 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the Rules, we know that discussions are taking place on Friday according to the schedule of meetings. You have a list of the questions that are proposed for consideration. The rules today do not provide for the consideration of parliamentary requests, but if you agree, they could be put to your consideration and voted. Is there no objection? A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. People's Deputies Groups: Jawtak, Boki, Lukyanenko, Immortal - to the President of Ukraine on the falsification of the outcome of the discussion and on the initiative of the President of Ukraine to amend the Constitution of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:06]] For-174 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:04:27]] For-183 The decision is not taken. Victor the King to the President of Ukraine on the response to the results of the checks by the Ukrainian Executive Board on the work of the Head of the Montenegrin District Administration, Theophile Bauer. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:01]] For 216 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:05:24]] For 252 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakova to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the problems of the viability of the military town of Kirovograd-25. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:52]] For 118 Decision taken. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to prepare and send an explanation to the region on the issue of taxation for the added value of land sales. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:24]] For 249 Decision taken. Stepan Cloud to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the invocation of the responsibility of officials in the Kirovograd region, who are guilty of delaying the issuance of State acts on the right of private property to land to residents of Yasinavka village, Lipivka, Mogilev Kurin district of Alexandrov district of Kirovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:03]] For 139 Decision taken. Synchenka to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the violation of Ukraine’s antimonopoly legislation in the Luhansk region in the performance of the executive functions related to their profit. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:37]] For 171 Decision taken. Orestes Klimczuk, Mikoli Kuharczuk, to the head of the Supreme Council of Justice on the abuse of office by individual judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine and their involvement in disciplinary responsibility. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:13]] For-126 Decision taken. People's Deputies — Desert Tenko, Hubski, Kuharczuk, Klimpush — only 17 national deputies to the President of Ukraine for the protection of the legitimate rights of members of the Association of International Automobile Carriers of Ukraine and employees of its secretariat. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Something's working. It's working. [[10:09:01]] For-191 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:09:25]] For 175 The decision is not taken. National Deputy Rudzikovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of illegal actions involving the accumulation of shares in the BILOTZERK KONNA, database number seven. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:59]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Andrija Shkila to the Attorney General of Ukraine for bringing a police officer to justice for a pedestrian in Lviv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:27]] For 105 Decision taken. Andrew School to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the legislative solution to the extension of the lease of premises to the Bank of Ukraine by the Sambi Department of Privatbank. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:56]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Dmitry Rudzikowski of the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the conflict situation at the Bilocerkow firm Valsa. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:22]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Bogdan Kostinuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the conditions for admission to higher education institutions of rural school graduates and children from low-income families. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:48]] For 231 Decision taken. Vasil Onopenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for violations by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the social rights of veterans of military service and internal affairs. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:17]] For 169 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the social situation of the villages of Yakimovka and the Malovish region of Kyrovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:47]] For-144 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov, you have already voted, sorry. Leonidas Grača and Zarya Katusheva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the acquisition of Czech trolleybuses for the state-owned company Crim Trolleybus. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:22]] For 148 Decision taken. Group of National Deputies - Cassianenko, Sergienko and others to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the justification of the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to cancel the ZAT licenses "Ukrainian Radio Systems". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:54]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Istwan Haydosh to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of crossing points across the Ukrainian-Hungarian state border. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:21]] For-144 Victor King to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the head of Montenegro's district administration, Teofil Bauer, which has led to an exacerbation of the social and political situation in the area and violations of citizens' constitutional rights. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:56]] For 158. Decision taken. People's Deputies Groups: Tzusko, Puzakov, Pisarenko and others to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of an independent commission interested in increasing government budget revenues and deciding on how to pay the Assembly for compulsory state pension insurance. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:32]] For-153 Decision taken. Jury of Artemenko and Mikola Tomenka to Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine Dmitry Tobacco, Head of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy, for violating the requirements of the Advertising Act in part of the determination of the order of placement of external advertising in support and amendment of the Constitution of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:14]] For 196 Decision taken. Tarasa Crnowil to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, on the basis of the fact that the budget is used to produce printed materials with a symbol of the non-existent State of the Soviet Union. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:47]] For-129 Decision taken. Vladimir Avramenka to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine for the transfer to the local authorities of the authority of the licensing of the city’s passenger transport. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:15]] For-81 The decision is not taken. People's Deputies Groups: Yultak, Boki, Lukyanenko, Immortal to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the falsification of the results of the President of Ukraine's initiative to amend the Constitution of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:50]] For-179 Decision taken. People's Deputies Groups: Dobkin, Galiev and others to the Ukrainian Minister of Health on violations of the legislation on the health and epidemiological welfare of the population in part of the provision and delivery of services and work for the payment of facilities for the sanitary and epidemiological services and the compliance of officials of the Kharkiv District Sanitary Station. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:39]] For 113 Decision taken. People's Deputies Groups: Red, Kuras, Shershun, and others, to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the release of commemorative coins to honor the memory of the glorious tribe of Ostrozhky princes. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:13]] For 181 Decision taken. Vassil Gladys to the head of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine regarding the lack of response of the head of the Balaklov district court to the parliamentary appeal. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:41]] For 176 Decision taken. Bogdan Kostinuk, head of the State Committee on Construction and Architecture for the Elimination of the Deficiencies of License Conditions for Building Activities. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:13]] For the 110. Decision taken. Vladimir Matviyeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of illegal pressure against members of the Mikolai District Election Commission on the election of city council deputies and city heads. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:43]] For 131 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the unlawful actions of the district authorities to the group of the agricultural enterprise "Niva" in the Kirovograd region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:13]] For 111 Decision taken. People's Deputies Groups: Baloga, Mihović, Ivancho to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the laws of the State Executive Authority in the organization of passenger transports in the Mukachów region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:46]] For-170. Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies: Omelchenko, Crnowil, Markusz, Steckov, Lucenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation by the directors of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine of the constitutional rights and freedoms of counsel of Fedur, the use of measures to stop violations and to bring the guilty to justice. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:21]] For 112 Decision taken. Bogdan Kostinuk to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the verification of the presence in the activities of the Head of the Suman District Authority of Vladimir Szhrbán, the composition of the crime provided for in article 365 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, "Excellence of Powerful Powers". [[requisition]] I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:57]] For 175 Decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski - to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the grounds of the dismissal of prosecutors from investigating the facts of the theft of property on a particularly large scale in the houses of creativity of the writers of Ukraine, "Coktebel" and the name of Chekhov. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:31]] For 165 Decision taken. Vasil Onopenk - to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations by officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the city of Harkov of the constitutional principles of the functioning of the judiciary, the status of judges and the exercise of justice. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:04]] For 105 Decision taken. People's Deputies Groups: Dopkin, Galiev and others, to the Chief of Control and Audit of Ukraine on gross violations of legislation in the provision and execution of paid services and in the work of the Kharkiv District Sanitary Epidemiology Station. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:41]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Jury Karmazin is to the Head of the Coordinating Committee on Combating Corruption and Organized Crime under the President of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the fact that the National Shareholder Company's funds have been disbursed through the repayment of the fictitious debt for the added value of more than 12 milliongr. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:21]] For-162 The questions were made. Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm asking you to put my motion to the vote again, because this is a normal request that concerns the activities of the Bank of Ukraine and the property that is left behind, the premises and so on. They're used in places, you know how it's going to go, not how it's supposed to go under the law. I ask you to support this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u3	I would like to put to the vote a request from the People's Deputy, Andria School, to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a legislative solution to the question of the extension of the lease of premises to the Bank of Ukraine by the Sambi branch of Privatbank. [[10:26:24]] For-100 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the national deputy Valentina Seminyuk asks that she be given the opportunity to speak in accordance with article 8.3. 3 The Supreme Council's Rules on the Evaluation of the Response to the Deputies' Request. And I'm asking Valentin Grigorovitch, the regulatory committee, to study. This must be between 40 and 30 minutes or... Because that's how we're going to get into the system, we're going to get out. Well, that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u4	Honorary colleagues, honourable voters, in accordance with the work plan of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on April 12th, were held the Government's Day on Enforcement of Actual Legislation in Drafting State Acts on Lands and Allocation of Lands in Nature. On my parliamentary request, more faithfully, to my parliamentary question, which I asked here in the session room, Mr. Danilenko was unable to answer, because in fact all these criminal acts concerning land acts are being carried out directly by him. After that, I was asked to do so. Just before yesterday, I received a letter from the Cabinet of Ministers concerning what the Cabinet of Ministers actually confirms that, yes, two forms of land acts are in place in Ukraine. One is based mainly on the Supreme Council decree of 1992, the second form of the act approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of April 2, 2002, number 449. As a result, an absurd situation arose in the State when various forms of State acts were at the same time, which were, in fact, unacceptable. According to article 156 of the Code of Land, in fact, there is a subversion of land acts. According to the reply sent by Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, number 22-2293/4 of 06.05, it is reported that the state acts of the new model have been allocated only partially so far, i.e. 3.5 million copies, with the need of 18-20 of my pounds. So this action is actually justified by Mr. Kirilenko. I refer to you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, given that this issue has been discussed on Government Day, taking into account Parliament's mandate to monitor the implementation of the Supreme Council's rulings that are taken into consideration on Government Day, to include this issue in order to control the proceedings specifically in the session room. Why am I asking? Because, in fact, today's work is paralyzed and our commission, and more so than yesterday's decisions on parliamentary hearings, and in Ukraine there are two examples of acts, the citizens of Ukraine today are in a deadlock when land acts of the 1992 model and land acts of the 2002 model are in operation, and the judicial authorities today do not know how to deal with these issues or how to deal with them. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask this repeated request for my vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to work according to the schedule of meetings. We now need to hear information from the Committee on Legislative Security on the actions that took place on 14 May 2003 in the Kyiv Detention Unit regarding the Ukrainian National Deputies. May I have your attention, please? The committee proposes this regulation: a speech by the chairman of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection in 5 minutes. The answers to the questions are 15 minutes. Decision-making is two minutes. Please, Vladimir Romanovich. I beg of you, Your Honor, we voted yesterday why you're yelling. We voted yesterday, we had to vote yesterday. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! To implement yesterday’s decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, between 19 and 21 hours yesterday, there was a three - hour meeting of the Committee on Legal Protection. Mr. Robber Yuri, it is the decision of the Supreme Council to entrust the committee to hear this question that was done yesterday. We have heard information from the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the State Department of Ukraine, about the execution of Ljocken's sentences on the events that took place on May 14, 2003. National deputies of Ukraine were heard who were directly involved in those events. These are the deputies of Pavlovsky, Cloud, Kirilchuk, Taran, Teeth, and other deputies. The situation in this regard has been established: according to the decision of the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv District Court of Appeal of 13 May of this year, Timoshenko, Bolura, Sokolchenko, and Shago were released from custody, who were held in various investigative isolations — Kyivsky, Chernigivski, and Zitomirski. Shago was released from prison in the city of Zitomiri on the basis of a judicial decision. Three others were not released, but were detained for 72 hours by order of the investigator in accordance with articles 106, 115 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on new charges. According to the Attorney General, a new criminal case has been filed for non-returning foreign exchange proceeds and for falsifying documents. The committee did not assess the correctness of the detention of all suspects, since these questions are not covered by the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, members of the committee unanimously, both those representing the opposition and those representing the parliamentary majority, pointed out that there had been grossly ignored and no court decision had been made on the release of those persons from custody and that those responsible should be punished accordingly. All the following events, the committee notes, in all three investigative detention facilities, including the beating of many national deputies, other unlawful acts against them were caused by representatives of these institutions because of their failure to execute a court decision. That is, all events were caused by the basic ignoring of a court decision. Special attention is paid to not only the ethical but also to the inhumane attitude of the members of these institutions toward the Ukrainian national deputies. It was called beatings, automobiles, hydraulic doors, and so forth. At the same time, the committee noted that the information on May 15, that is, the date of the committee’s meeting, is not sufficient for a clear conclusion, so it suggested that the Supreme Council of Ukraine give such an assessment to these events. First. To take my information into account, or to the best of my knowledge, recommend that the Attorney General of Ukraine take urgent action to implement the judgment concerning Timoshenko, Bolura, and Sokolchenko. Instruct the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to immediately check the reasons for the failure to execute a court decision and the facts of the beating of Ukrainian MPs and to inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the results through our committee on Tuesday, May 20, this year I will then provide the relevant information to the Supreme Council. A draft decision from this question is given to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u7	Dear colleagues! The head of the committee gave his information. I'm asking you to sign up for a question. Please give the names of the national MPs who are registered on the board. Please, Seminoga, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Anatoly Seminoga, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u8	Pass it to Teeth, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u9	Teeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u10	Thank you very much. Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I have a question for the Chairman of the Committee in the next order. First question. Yesterday the Committee asked several questions to the Attorney General, and the Chief of Staff concerned the fate of the people they were today? First of all, they continue to be held in custody. In spite of the Committee's opinion that the court's decision should be upheld, I would like to hear your answer. Is the committee's decision and the Kiev Court of Appeal implemented this morning? That's the first question. If not implemented, where are these people today? Second. Is there any indication as to whether appropriate penalties have been taken against the employees of the Lukyanov Detention Unit who have allowed violations of the People's Deputy Status Act and the use of brute physical force?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u11	Thank you, Your Honor. This is the moment when the court decision in the case is not carried out. Where there are three detained persons, this is a matter of investigation, and the authorities investigating the case are obliged to inform relatives, guardians of the place of imprisonment of the persons in question. I don't have that kind of information. And the second question is, "Are there penalties for these events?".. Well, I told you that information is not enough for conclusions, but you were on the committee yesterday, and you heard that the State Department on Execution of Punishment and the Attorney General on their part had assigned a service to investigate these events. After Tuesday, I'll be ready to give you an answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u12	Yuri Orobec, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u13	I'm not talking to a reporter. I'm talking to the Head of the Supreme Council. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Anticonstitutional acts, disregard for the law, and the brutal beating of national MPs are taking place. Of course, you can hide from what the Supreme Council voted yesterday, but I'm making personal remarks to you -- that's how people's rights in Ukraine don't protect.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u14	That's a question for me, I'll answer it. I'd ask me not to talk like that, first of all. You're not a prosecutor yet, I'm not a criminal. That's the first one. The other one. Yesterday we were dealing with this issue. As you wished, you should have come when we met with the Attorney General and the heads of all factions and explained. And the tone and the tone of the voice, and the tempr, don't mean a sign of argument. Act Finely! Please, the next question. National Deputy Grzezhev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u15	Please pass the word to Nikolaenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u16	Stanislaw Nikolainko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u17	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Romanovich! I'm just gonna ask you a question. How can it be, in which state this could be, that there's a court decision that lets people off guard and it doesn't work?Oh, my God! And Ukraine’s national deputies were forced to comply with the court’s decision. Why, then, do we have executive services, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and so forth? That's the first question. I think it's just a system, because I'd like to add another one today. Last night the court of Sum City Judge Bondar withdrew from the registration of the candidate, the sum mayor, the head of Sum's Sergey Klock for not making any decision in the Commodore office there. I want to say what's going on in sums, what's happened around the situation in the detention facility is evidence of anti-national, illegal actions in our state. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u18	Thank you, Mr. Stanislav. You have rightly raised the question that there can be no place in the rule of law for failure to execute judicial decisions. You know this is no worse than I do, article 124 of the Constitution of Ukraine stipulates that decisions are approved by the name of the State and its responsibility for the execution of all organs. Yesterday the committee asked what to admit by making decisions about these people, so anyway, I think that these people were going to go outside the investigative isolation, swallow the air, embrace the family, and then all the measures that the prosecutor thought were necessary, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u19	Jaroslav Suhi, please, faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u20	Thank you. Volodymyr Romanovich, I will not touch on the issue of the execution of judgments, the decisions of the courts in Ukraine are not carried out in a mass way, including with regard to return, for example, wages. As an ex-military officer, I'd like to ask you, a lawyer. I imagine myself standing in the position of those who carry out their duties. A group of Ukrainian national deputies seeking entertainment from time to time in the courtroom is in a detention center. On what legal basis were they there? On the basis of the law on the status of the Ukrainian national MP or any other acts? And the second question to you. So, who was the cause of the beating, the law enforcement or the people's deputies themselves, who went to the detention center?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u21	Thank you, Mr. Jaroslav. I therefore believe that they must be punished both by national MPs if they are guilty and by law enforcement officials or by the law enforcement agency. But once again, the reason for the conclusion is not enough. That's the first one. And the second. Yet, the reason for all events was the failure to make decisions. The MPs didn't go there to fight, nothing, they went to meet people who were supposed to be released from guard duty. But I repeat, we need to deal with these circumstances.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u22	Sergey Gmira, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u23	Thank you very much. Vladimir Ivanovich, I have a question. The second paragraph of the draft you proposed raises doubts, recommending that the Attorney-General take urgent measures and so on. Well, you see, in this case, we incriminate not inaction, but action. That is, the situation is not that the Attorney-General has forgotten to release those to be released by decision of the court. There has been a deliberate violation of the Constitution by the Attorney General. And recommend complaining to whoever you're complaining about seems pointless. In this case, I think it is necessary to recommend that the President of Ukraine, as a guarantor of the Constitution, be required to require the Attorney-General to comply with the laws and the Constitution. Well, neither should the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u24	Dear colleague, thank you for asking. The committee concluded that a judicial decision passed by the name of Ukraine had the power of law. The prosecutor oversees the enforcement of laws. That's why we wrote it down: "Mr. Prosecutor, find out why the decision was not made and it has to be implemented." This is literally. The hall can make other decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u25	National MP Samofalov, Gennady Samofalov, Democratic Initiative Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u26	Samofalov, European Choice MP, Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, in general, I often have a misunderstanding about how the MPs are being beaten. Because you and I, in principle, have a status, as they say, of the Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine. And here's what happens often, I think that MPs provoke the actions that are being done against them. Why? Because it's never the soldier's fault, it's the leader's fault. I have two questions about that. The first question was whether the people's deputies who had been there, the leadership of the Attorney General at the scene, the head of the Department of Punishment, and who had spoken to them. The second question is, is there any evidence that such events have actually occurred -- beatings and so on or is it just a statement by the deputies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u27	Thank you, thank you. I'll let you know next. Members of the Julia Timoshenko faction, MPs from Our Ukraine, particularly Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, have been calling the department's department's department of executions, the Attorney General's office, night and night. And you know what? Finding someone was hard. But the people who were in Chernig and in Zitomir brought me and gave me to the committee a lot of acts about the fact that the decision had not been made and was simply ignored. This was signed by the Registrar of the Court and the employees of the institution itself. That is, they took steps to resolve the conflict peacefully. They couldn't get into the leadership of the colony simply or simply and so forth. Are There Witnesses? I repeat, we're not the investigating authority with you. Let the prosecutor, the investigators, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u28	Victor Rozwadowski, group of Democratic Initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u29	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd like for my colleagues not to compare the national MPs to the vice-premiers, because the people's deputies are elected by the people. That's for reference. And I'd like a word with Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u30	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u31	Thank you, Victor Roswadowski. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, your honor! After addressing the beaten deputies of Volinz, Zubov, Timoshenko, I, with the well - known leadership of the Attorney General’s Office, left as a representative of the Legal Policy Committee to check on the city. For five hours, I repeat, five hours later, the national MP of three refused to let the national deputies into custody. It's a disgrace! The disgrace for the State Department, the disgrace for the Attorney General’s Office, is a hindrance to my MP’s activities because I left in connection with the MP’s request for beatings and the failure to execute a court decision. So far, no one has been punished. I was seen by the city's attorney, and I was seen by the head of the Department of Internal Affairs of Savchenko. I believe that the measures currently being taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, your committee, the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, the Committee on Legal Policy, are inadequate. That's why I have a question: you're the judge of the Supreme Court, you know. And a very respectable judge, as it should have been. These violations of my rights as a member of the defense of others, obstacles to my activity are there are signs of criminal crime. Why is it not a matter of a criminal offence in this case, why are you solving your hands with the Attorney General?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u32	Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u33	Yuri Anatoliyovich, you were present at the committee meeting, and the Attorney General informed him that he had not received a statement yesterday from any of the deputies about the beating. Yesterday, he was given information, and he promised to do something Tuesday or break it down or deal with it. And the next day after what happened, Yuri Anatolyovich, I think the Supreme Council is taking enough. These are the events of yesterday, well, what could we have done with you, say?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u34	Mikhail Pavlovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u35	Thank you. I'd like to give Julia Timoshenko a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u36	Please turn on Julia Volodymyrna’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u37	Dear fellow national MPs! I want to say that the question is not about individual national MPs, not about individual prisoners who have not been executed in court. This is about systemic political repression, the systematic destruction of the country's legislative field in Ukraine, and the systematic destruction of the country. And we wanted to point out that if even the national MPs of all the executive structures, including the forceful ones, cannot find the truth and cannot make a decision, I want you to think about what simple people in Ukraine can do to protect their rights, if national MPs are beaten, then understand what they are doing to our people today. I am convinced that hundreds and hundreds of court decisions are not being carried out, hundreds and hundreds of people are not being able to defend their rights. And I would like to point out that Deputy Suhiy, who spoke from the faction of the SDP, who is actually led by Medvedchuk, is a practical example of how a representative of the power structure in this faction supports both the failure to implement the laws of Ukraine and the failure to execute judicial decisions, but there are various social Democrats, for example, who were present yesterday on a committee of people from this faction, who clearly said that it was impossible to build a country like that. [[United]] And that's why there are different power representatives, and there are different MPs in each faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u38	Questions, please make them clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u39	And everyone understands that we just can't live like this. And the question is. Please tell this question to the committee manager. Please tell people what to do now and what to do now to the people's deputies involved in this conflict in order to ensure that a court decision is executed. Give me some advice. People are sitting, nothing is happening, no decision is made, the Attorney General was in court yesterday, nothing done. What can you do?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u40	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrically.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u41	Julius Volodymyrno, this is my advice, it's in the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is to entrust the Attorney General with immediate action before the execution of the judgment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u42	Thank you, Volodymyr Romanovich, the question is exhausted, time is running out. Dear colleagues, let's consult then. Volodymyr Romanovich, are we going to ask questions about the decision? Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to take a decision today, since the terms are written here on May 20. Now, one minute, we'll figure it out. To that end, we need to put the matter into the agenda, vote for the decision today, and then make our own decision, i.e. three votes should be. With a motive, please, whoever has one. The People's Deputy of the Teeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u43	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I believe we are considering an extremely important issue not only for Parliament but also for the country. Perhaps it makes sense today to put up a vote for the agenda, but voting in the room today is very difficult: you can see that the room is half empty. Therefore, everything may end, considering this important issue may simply end with another simple formality. Let us consider how to get out of this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u44	Please, your offer. I made a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u45	I suggest you do it on Tuesday morning.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u46	We need the committee to do the decision accordingly. Is there no objection? It's a deal, thank you. Mr. Volodymyr Romanovich, I ask you to finalize the ruling, taking into account the discussion and the suggestions made by the national MPs. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. Report of the National Council of Ukraine on Television, 2002 Radio. By procedure, please, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u47	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I strongly oppose the report by Mr. Cold, to whom the Supreme Council of Ukraine has expressed its mistrust, and therefore today it is unable to present the National Council on Television and Radio. As a compromise to let him go to this highest in the rostrum, I would ask, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, your promise that the head of the Follower's Commission on the National Television Council on all the dirty and corrupt activities that were created there under the leadership of Mr. Cold. If you promise to make Mr. Green's next appearance as head of the commission of inquiry, I will give in to the disreputable cold of this rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u48	Thank you. Mikola Tomenko, please, your offer. The committee will offer to support, not support. That's how we're going to do it. Please, Mikolo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u49	Dear colleagues! The committee suggested that the following action be taken. We have the 30-minute Nacrada report format and the 15-minute report format of the commission of inquiry. I think that if we unite and have a joint discussion: three reports five minutes from the committee, the commission of inquiry, the Nacratha, and a joint discussion. We're going to make time, and we're going to talk about one problem, and we're going to solve a conflict situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u50	There's no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u51	None. More than that, Mr. cold can be told in five minutes what kind of oligarchs he gave the television.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u52	Please turn on the microphone, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. There's no portrait, Adam Ivanovich. Come to the rostrum, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u53	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. You can agree with the committee's proposal, but in one language, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We don't have a report from the Special Investigation Commission today. If we agree, we should vote for inclusion in the agenda and then listen to both reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u54	Dear National Deputies! So let's obviously do this. That we're going to have a report, actually, of the head of the National Council, of the committee's report, and we're going to ask that, within five minutes, the head of the commission spoke, said how they worked, what problems there were, how they worked. And we're not going to call that a report. And then we move on. Is there no objection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u55	The word is given to the representative of the oligarchs of the Ukraine of the cold.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u56	Please. Please, Yuri Lucenko. I invite the head of the National Council on Television and Radio to the rostrum of Holod Boris Ivanovich. Please, Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! According to article 31 of the Ukrainian National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting Act, the constitutional, not-for-all state body, the National Council of Ukraine, reports annually to the Supreme Council and the President, and submits an annual report for consideration by the Supreme Council and the President, so it is legal and cannot be considered again. What changed since the National Council filed a report with the Supreme Council and the President? What changes have been made? First. Appointment of all members of the National Council from the Supreme Council and the President. The National Council is now fully operational, eight members of the National Council. The other one. The election of the first deputy and deputy head of the National Council was held. On Monday, Viktor Ivanovich was elected the deputy head of the National Council, Shevchenka Vitali Fedorovich. And the third. The proposals for creation made to the Supreme Council of the Parliamentary Channel are proposed to create such a parliamentary channel and the decision of the National Council is now being worked out along with the radio company and the Supreme Council. Third. Now we've got an active job to do. with a committee of our own by working out the current legislation that should have been adopted in the Supreme Council by law on television, television, the National Council Act, other laws that need to be further developed today. Four. What changes? The number of television companies we reported, you have them. Today there has been a change and it has increased, to this day there are 884 of them, and the daily speech of television and radio in our country is over 8,000,400 hours per day. And the last thing you could add today. If anyone thinks that any question at a meeting of the National Council at its adoption can lobby or personally accept the head of the National Council, or the first deputy, or the responsible secretary, or the members of the National Council, it is not so at all. You see, unlike the ministries and offices of our country, the national council of 36 wrote a special rule: "The decision of the National Council is considered to be taken only when the members of the National Council are present, voting or not, signed a decision of the National Council. Right away, not leaving the hall." So this is what's happening. So if we're talking about lobbying some questions, well, that's not the case, because those MPs who were present at the meeting saw how that was accepted. Thank you for your attention, ready to answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, the reporter has finished earlier, we'll have a chance to ask more questions. I'm asking you to sign up for a question. Seven minutes to ask. Please, on the board. Michael Gladys. Then Oleg Belarus will ask the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u59	Dear Vladimir Mikhajlovich, would you please tell me whether the National Council plans to announce thematic language contests in the regions?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u60	I have to say that we're already working on this kind of material, and we're making suggestions on thematic language in the regions and in general on thematic language and regional and national television and radio channels. That's the plan. We have already introduced and experience this is what we have in some regions, we think today is the 11-year development of radio information space today that requires us to plan thematic development in the regions, especially in the areas, in the cities.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u61	Oleg Belarus, if you please, the faction of the Yuli Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u62	Please tell me what the National Council has done to prevent the flood monopolization of radiotelespace in Ukraine and the post-regulatory regime of obscene advertising in radiotelespace? That's the first question. And the second. You've been talking about parliamentary television. How long will this be limited to conversation? When is this television going to be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u63	I'll start with the second question. We didn't say anything before, but from my mouth as heads and members of the National Council, we didn't talk about the parliamentary channel. There's been a problem and a solution to this problem, recently that we've developed, made proposals by members of the National Council a month ago to the Supreme Council, to Vladimir Mikhailovich as Head, and now has been commissioned by the Teleradio Company of the Supreme Council to work out these proposals and together with the National Council then make a decision. And the decision of the National Council, and then perhaps the Supreme Council, will be to create a satellite cable parliamentary channel for all of Ukraine. With regard to the problems that were previously addressed to the National Council and to me personally in 2001 and 2002, you know that at the National Council we were discussing this issue, and now the First Television and Radio Channel, the National Radio, is now broadcasting the Supreme Council at a fixed time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u64	Alexy Kozachenko, please. Is it? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u65	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u66	Mr. Cold, I don't want to bring up a lot of famous examples of Ukraine, I want to make a statement about my behavior as head of the board on television and radio talk you're discrediting your esteemed body. You also cynically show disrespect for the Supreme Council with all your conduct. I have a simple question: When will this all stop?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u67	Thank you. You were present last Wednesday at a meeting in person during the lobbying of the seventh channel in Odessa, and you spoke there and you saw that all the members of the National Council spoke and said that the question not only of you, but of everyone today, it was right, it would be resolved. 28 numbers will be placed in the agenda of the National Council and will decide. As for the head of the National Council personally, well, I may disagree with you, because neither the head of the National Council nor one head is dealing with these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u68	Jaroslav Kenzier, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u69	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask you to give the floor to the deputy of Lebedov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u70	Please, Lebedowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear reporter, my question concerns human rights, particularly the right of the territorial community to receive information from local authorities, particularly through television companies and a specific example in Kiev. The situation with the radio company Kiev, why the Supreme Court's decisions, other courts in this company are not being implemented, and the specific question is, when will this decision be implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u72	Thank you. The question about the city of Kiev will be, I think, settled in the near future, but it will be resolved, not as it was before, but in the complex. Alexander Aleksandrovich, as mayor of the city, offered to solve it via cable other than the TV TV TV channel TRC "Kiev", via cable and FM radio. The National Council has decided on the calculation and this calculation has already come to the National FM Frequency Council for Kiev, preparing a decision of the National Council for Cable Television in Kiev, I think in both the air and cable complex, and the radio frequency will be considered for Kiev these issues. [[capital]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u73	Valentina Seminouk. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u74	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, please pass the word to Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko, my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u75	Yuri Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u76	Yuri Lucenko, Socialist Party of Ukraine I'm not talking to you as head of the National Council, because obviously from your so-called report, you're just acting as an impostor. I address you as the secretary to the Paradise where President Kuchma was on the party count. I want to know how you live in that house that you asked for in Kuchma, and it's fixed on Melnick's tapes, that's the first question. How did you get it? The second question. You said about the development of television space. I would like to hear your reaction to the words of Mrs. Severinsen, who represents Europe, who made it clear that our telespace has been allocated by your efforts to the unsatisfying of the house that Kuchma gave you with Medvedchuk and Pinchuk. [[Ukrainian National Deputies]] So you're responding to these two questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u77	Thank you. Mrs. Severinsen, in three years of our work on the National Council, she speaks our words today. First question. Mr. Yuri, don't be misled, please. I was the first secretary of the Yellow Paradise Party, where Kuchma was nowhere near. He worked in the Red Guard and left from there. So that doesn't apply to me. And the house, that's what it is. There could be a house in the area, there's nothing I can do. That's not true!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u78	Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u79	I worked for the first secretary of the Yellow Paradise Party, and he worked for the Red Guard. Thank you. He did not live in the Yellow Area, and he was not in my area.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u80	Yes, Larissa Polakov, please. Another question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u81	And the second question. Mrs. Severinsen and her suggestions. In three years, the National Council held two international conferences to regulate current legislation in line with European standards. And this, since 2001 and 2002, we have been inviting the Council of Europe, the European Parliament, to initiate the first implementation of current legislation in Ukraine and many of the proposals that Mrs. Severinsen is making today are from words and from the National Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u82	Larissa Polakov and then Oleg Belarus, please. Time is running out, and our colleague is just dissatisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u83	Larissa Polakova, Trudova Ukraine faction and parties of industrialists and entrepreneurs. Dear Boris Ivanovich, there is now much to be said about the need to fight for the purity of air. Be kind enough to let us know briefly what activities the National Council has been carrying out in this regard. I mean, there's a danger of pornography, of violence.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u84	The problem is very serious in general. I brought it to the last report, remember, if there were three national television and radio companies in 1990, and they spoke as a whole 94 hours a day, now 884 radio companies in Ukraine speak more than 8,400 hours a day. To test them, to monitor them, it is a very difficult matter. Eight times the National Council held these hearings and made decisions, and the last decision was taken by one of the radio companies and central ours, nationals and regionals. That's why decisions are made, but to say that the question is solved today, I can't say for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u85	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the members of the Special Commission to draft a bill amending the Constitution to go up to the third floor of the sitting room where the commission works. Not all of them showed up. Please. Oleg Belarus, last question or clarification, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u86	We have, in Parliament, as in a bad theater, a regime: some ask questions, and some ask questions, and those on the rostrum either don't answer or say something completely inappropriate. It's like Odessa said, "Every question you have is our answer. I asked about your responsibility for the total monopolization of Ukraine's radiotelevision space. When and how will you act to break this wicked monopoly? The second question is, when will public television and the public radio that citizens are waiting for, free from pornography, censorship, and citizens’ zombieism take place in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u87	The first question is monopolization. When a decision is taken by the National Council on Admission by a television company or another, the National Council reviews its statutory documents, and everyone who participates in the company. That's why we define, in accordance with the 7th Article of the Television and Radio Law, monopolization when we accept documents, but when a problem is defined as a whole how many hosts have television and radio channels, we now submit and ask the Supreme Council to help. Not the co-founder of a television company, but the owner of a television company. Then we'll know what we're talking about. We're with the Antimonopoly Committee, these problems that you're raising by monopolization, we're working out now, and there's this solution, the MP's question was Mikli Volodymirovich, and we're working it together. As far as public television and radio are concerned. Members of the National Council and I, as the head of today, agree that it should be in the country, but according to applicable legislation. It's gonna be the law, it's gonna work. The National Council license will be issued when the application is made. As far as advertising is concerned, how do you raise that question? The law on advertising in the first reading has already been passed. We hope that he will be adopted in the second reading, and according to the legislation in force, the National Council will have a clear and regular control over the matter. Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies for the raised question of the interim commission of inquiry. I've been working a temporary investigation commission and it's still working, I can't say. Neither the head nor the members of the National Council nor the National Council, 119 people, are aware of the work and materials that have been prepared. Even though the Internet and the discussions talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u88	Thank you. Time's up, Boris Ivanovich. Thank you. Mikola Tomenko, head of the committee for the report, has the floor. Please, Mikolo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u89	Dear colleagues! In order to understand the situation surrounding the National Council, we may need to talk about the old National Council, the transitional period, and the situation that is now. When it comes to the old National Council, which we debated in this room, it must be said that the Supreme Council in general failed to comply with its decision in this room, and much did not really depend on the Supreme Council. It's two positions. The first position is that we've been focusing on a lot of illegal actions and we've been asking the Attorney General's Office, the law enforcement agencies, to check that they actually contained signs of corruption in the National Council's actions during the period we've been listening to in the report last year. That's why the commission of inquiry came up, and I think the head of the commission of inquiry is going to talk about their activities today. The second aspect of our failure to comply with our decision was not largely dependent on us either, because the President's Administration had decided to interpret the Constitution and the National Council Act and to convince the President that our decision on mistrust of the National Council and the Head of the National Council was not mandatory for the execution of the President. Unfortunately, we live in a country where the President's Administration governs and interprets the Constitution, not the President. There was a transitional period in the activities of the National Council when we updated our section and the National Council in the new format only approached its activities and it was far from successful during this transition period. And there's a last period when we formed our parliamentary section of 4, I think, very professional members of the National Council, where the President has made some changes and adjustments to his "four." And this period, I think, and I have to say with objectivity here, we have seen that members of the National Council have started to work much more actively and more dynamically. Today, I have to say that there is a part of licensing that understands how decisions are made, because there are members of our committee present at these meetings, there are discussions on these issues, and in recent months we see that there is progress on this issue. However, I think the lessons of the old National Council say that licensing must take 1 percent, so let's say, or a few percent of the work of the National Council. The key task of the National Council is to see how the tediadia organizations implement the Constitution and the laws. And here we have to be objective and say that the National Council is obviously afraid of owners, afraid of authorities to force channels, first of all national decision-making. I'll give you one example. We have popular channels, very famous, and even more famous, so let's take channel 1+1. According to the license, channel "1+1" has to broadcast: information, art, children's and publicist programs. Speakers should be 80 percent in Ukrainian, 20 percent in Russian. The channel paid for the license as a social-important channel, in fact as a social-language channel. Now, look, today, before our parliamentary hearing, I took the program on channel "1+1," as it were, by May 16, TV show "Russian Amazons", TV series "Banditstsky Petersburg", TV series "The Passions of Italian", TV series "All Women Witches", TV series "Russian Amazons", TV series "Menty-4", art film "The Godfather". [[Repeat]] I'm going to return you to what license I got for "1+1": information, art, children's, publicist, public speaking. This is an indicator of how national channels do our license. According to current legislation, the National Council takes this, so I'm just going to give them today's program, on the basis of this program, it can warn the channel, and at the next session, it can take away the license. The same situation across all national channels, where no norm of what they promise when they are licensed. So the proposal of our committee, since we finally formed the National Council, has finally chosen for the first time all the officials, the first deputy, the deputy, to begin to engage in the substantive characteristics of television space, not to speak and debate only about licenses. What's more, I'm absolutely convinced that the National Council needs to analyse and inform information programs in terms of not censoring, but understanding that there are absolutely obvious signs of monitoring, when we see that one channel, sorry, "wets" two politicians, the other one, and so on. They weren't issued with a license for political piss, I'm sorry. Licenses were issued for something else. So I think the Nakrad has started working for the last few months, once again. And I think we need to do everything we can to make it work, as the Constitution and the National Council of Television and Radio is saying. And this committee will support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u90	Questions for a colleague, please log in. We agreed for five minutes. Please put it on the board. Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u91	Dear colleague, head of the committee! You're saying that only the last month did the National Council start working. Why weren't you interested in it in the last month? And one more question. I have a wonderful impression. When the National Council is formed, there are quotas, a piece of the President, a piece of the Supreme Council. It seems to me that only the Supreme Council is the highest forum of direct peoples. And giving the resources of the National Council to any representative of the government means putting the issue in bad shape. What do you want to do in this direction?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u92	You know I fully support you. I am convinced that the Nacrad should have been formed by the Supreme Council. But since there is a Constitution and there are laws that we live in, where there is a clear way of forming the National Council, and that's how we act. Not only did we learn the last month that the Nakrad didn't work, but now it's working, you know, that we've been actively involved in doing our job and choosing four members of the Nakrad. You know how long the struggle was for the fourth member of the Nacradah. The parliamentary majority has been opposed for a long time to elect the fourth member of the Nacradia, it's not a secret, and it's blocking it as much as possible. And only recently did Tetjana Lebedev become the fourth member of the National Council. This gave us the opportunity to appoint, more precisely, the first intercessor and deputy. So everything about the Supreme Council. I think we're doing. There's a problem with the President's Administration that I said. Unfortunately, we don't feel the support there, and it surprises me, because by answering your second part, they've already shared everything. So they've already given Nacradi the opportunity to work, because the entire radio area has already been divided by the President's Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u93	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u94	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, the circumstances in which Eera broadcasts to UT-1 is a robbery in broad daylight. On this point, neither the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine nor your committee, although we have already lifted from this rostrum, have we taken no action, nor has the National Council. In fact, for justice's sake, the only one who resisted at the time was Cold, who resisted to embezzle state property. He was resisting at the time, that's fair enough to say. What steps are now being taken to ensure that the people are given back? Let the Era be on other channels, and on the UT-1, it's a national government channel, and it's just not possible to rob it. By the way, and by the way, people are also speaking, especially from Transnistria. They even want to disconnect now because of the low quality that was out there in this case.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u95	I fully support you. The only way out, I know this situation very well, is by adopting the law on social television on the basis of First National. The "first national" for today is divided only between "Era," the piece is in "Era," the piece is in district television companies. By the way, it's an illegal decision to drive the district radio companies out of the Intera and put them on the First National. So there's order according to our data, the First National is the order of the forty studios that were used there. In fact, the First National Channel doesn't exist, so it's true. So you have to pass a social television law as soon as possible, put order there, and make a nationwide channel, in fact, again, from the very beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u96	Olga Hinzburg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u97	161st Conotapian constituency, Hinzburg, Communist faction. Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, please tell me that I think so often: the entire people of Ukraine, he knows that the problems on television and joy are very large because they do not affect the formation of the personality in Ukraine. We cannot raise a new generation as it is. Well, we just lose him, everyone understands that, and in the village, and in the city, everywhere. We understand, MP. With one prime minister, who represented one political party, the same was true with the other, with the third party. It's the same thing. I'll tell you, back in the '90s, when they were showing movies about Scrooge's shadow, "Uncle Scrooge," and in these dollars, these were bathing, I couldn't understand it all the time, and what's this for? And now I understand, well, they're doing us wrong as if they were losing our country. Why can't we do anything, can't show the best farmer, can't show a good worker there somehow? What's the matter? I'm thinking, well, there are authorities responsible for the security of the country. Why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u98	Well, the answer is very simple: because these organs are not responsible for information security and do not exercise their powers and the appropriate authorities that do this in executive power, you're very well aware, starting with the vice-premier of humanitarian politics, and ending with all the rest of the structures. So we have a recipe one, you know, we need to change the political regime, and then the organs might work better. It's just that time is running out, and I just wanted to say one more piece, and I forgot it. It's kind of a strange situation right now, because it looks like the opposition is being accused of not wanting to help the radio organizations, organizing information wars and so on. I want to make an official statement here both for the protocol and for the authorities and for the Council of Europe that there are no information wars in Ukraine. It's just that in Ukraine, as one guarantor says, the opposition is being hit by an information oak on the head, and it's called a wetlandsweeper, from this same character, and the opposition is writing test statements and telling the authorities that laws are to be enforced. So if the problem is that only one way out of this political regime and the thinking of this political regime is going to change, because the vice-premier is now in the process of getting it, today, in yesterday, he's the alternate member of the Academy of Sciences for achievement, and he's not in the Ukrainian culture or anything else. And so are the other structures, so it's clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u99	Valentina Seminouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u100	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich. That's a question for you. As we know, the Supreme Council voted against Mr. cold. It was appropriate to submit to the President, but what was the answer. That's the first question. And the second. Today, under the heading "secretly" and not subject to publication, the President's decrees are issued to privatize public objects, including television channels. How you view it, whether you know such orders and whether your committee knows about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u101	You know, we live in that country where the President's letters are written by Medvedchuk, so the President doesn't write us letters yet, and we get a few letters from the Head of the Supreme Council from the President's Administration saying he's a lawyer who thinks the Constitution and the National Council Act give him reason not to follow the Supreme Council's decision. I know that the Head of the Supreme Council has repeatedly asked the President that the ruling of our well-verified, Scientific and Expert Council has confirmed the legitimacy of our ruling, and I've repeatedly justified it, that's the situation. We didn't get the President's formal response at all, but there are receipts or letters from Medvedchuk saying we're not going to do that. As far as privatization is concerned, there is now a serious problem and we will soon hear the problem. I mean, I said that almost two clans have already gone through, but there's still a problem with the Donetsk region. Now the frequency has been calculated, and apparently the key innovation of the current months will also be the National Council to "suffuse" so that Ukrainian television companies will soon receive one 30 or 40 licenses and become another national channel, because the Donetsk Group is not yet a national channel. The same situation in the regions. Now basically the redistribution goes to the regions. So the national radio area is essentially divided and now it's going to be completely distributed in the regions. We know this information and unfortunately, this is the situation where we know but there's nothing we can do.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u102	Oleg Tuggnibok's procedure, please. Just get out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u103	Thank you, Oleg Dragnibok, "Our Ukraine." I actually wanted to ask you, while Mikola Volodymyrovich is on the rostrum, how much of your committee, headed by you, appreciates the activities of Lviv Regional Television, which is actually governed by the political structure, more of which is engaged in absolutely anti-constitutional activity, limiting directly the capacity of the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm basically talking about myself. You know the example of when, in February, having the possibility of a 20-minute TV performance under the Constitution, I made a corresponding recording, but one-personally, the representatives of the SDPI(o) who run the regional television actually cut off this broadcast. What's more, one more moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u104	That's not the subject. Turn off the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u105	Let me put it briefly, the way out is that of course, the district television companies are actually controlled by the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting, which is headed by Ivan Chi. I turned to him, and so I realized that nothing would happen there and nothing would change from that. We have a law that we have passed and the President has signed and defines censorship and criminal responsibility. I'm going to address it, and you can also refer to the Attorney General about the discovery of a criminal case involving officials regarding the obstruction and application of censorship. We have these cases in all the regions and, by the way, this is the last story that George Kruczkov gave me about his television debates with the U.S. Ambassador to "1+1," and I also suggested that Georgi Korniyovich address and open up a criminal case based on the fact of censorship.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u106	Thank you. Casualty, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u107	Thank you, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, I hope to speak with you on the procedure. I'd like to go back to the way we're discussing and asking questions, we national MPs. And that's why I'm supporting two of my colleagues who kept saying yesterday: where am I, where am I? Thank you, Deputy Cherniak. You realize that some have already privatized the right to manage the Supreme Council Hall, the central rostrum, as their own. And so the way we act about those on the stand from the ministries, from the department, it kind of shocks me, but it demeans me. I'd like to make an offer, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that we still need to go back to producing some code of honor for the conduct of the people's deputies. Because I would very much like to support the defeated members of the Julia Timoshenko faction, the first question that we have considered today, but speaking of yesterday's behaviour of the people's deputies of the same faction in relation to the central rostrum and the Presidency and today's behaviour of the deputies, I can't believe that we need to do this to the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u108	Thank you. Please, Igor Green.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u109	Mr. Head! Deputies! Members of the National Council and Guests! The history of the conflict that has arisen between the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the National Council on TV and radio has its logic and its direct legal, political and personal basis. Our commission saw that it was borderline objective, but also strictly, to examine in detail the activities of the Supreme Council’s governing bodies and to find documentary confirmation or acquittal of the numerous claims and accusations that have been made to his leadership in recent years. The first serious remarks were made in the deputy corps when the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered the previous convening of a report by the National Council on Television and Radio for 200 years. In this number of observations, the demands of parliamentarians to improve the work of the Nakrad, to stop its management of abuses, have not been heard or have produced practical results. Thus, on July 4, 2002, the Supreme Council of the present - day Assembly adopted a rather firm resolution in its consideration of the next report in 2001. This report was not approved, nor was the head of the National Council of the cold expressed mistrust, and the parliamentary powers of the council were suspended for a period of time. It should be recalled once again that the President of Ukraine has not yet responded to this decision, and the head of the Ukrainian President's Administration is qualified to qualify the Supreme Council's decision on early termination as not in conformity with the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine and, accordingly, cannot be implemented by the President of Ukraine. Therefore, given the numerous, and in some cases the systematic violations of legislation, the rights of natural and legal persons may further exacerbate the licensing situation on 28 November 2002, in accordance with article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine, our interim commission of inquiry has been established to investigate the activities of the National Council of Ukraine in the field of television and radio broadcasting for 2000-2002. I was also chosen as the head of this commission of inquiry. In addition to the resonative activities related to the licensing of the company and the distribution of the radio frequency, it was necessary to verify the reliability of information on the facts of the beneficial actions, other abuses by members of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting, as well as to analyse and give a legal assessment of the activities of the Head of the National Council of Ukraine on television and the radio talk of Boris cold, who continues to manage the financial and material values of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting, to decide on its behalf. 14 national deputies of Ukraine were elected as members of the commission, representing various factions, groups, and nonfractional groups. The work of the commission was organized in several directions: legal, organizational, political, software. The legal direction was to study and analyse all the issues between the organizations and the National Council. Organizing the work of the commission itself, working with the departments of the National Council. Political research into the impact of authorities and senior officials on decision-making by the National Council. Program filling - study of the conformity of license documents for Ukraine's legislation. The commission’s main task was to work with documents. This enabled the commission to undertake a scrupulous analysis of the regulations of the National Council and Reports, to study the complaints of directors of radio organizations, to analyze decisions, to avoid subjective and biased testimony from both members and employees of the National Council of Ukraine. In total, 18 volumes of the records of all the National Council meetings in the last two years have been processed by the commission, and more than 40 television licenses have been studied by the Commission in three months. More than 30 radio organizations with complaints of illegal actions against them from the National Council have been contacted by the commission during the competitive selection of licences. It is important to note that the workers of the National Council of Ukraine’s television and radio communication apparatus have taken an understanding view of the work of the commission. Although late, the committees were provided with all the materials we needed. The information on the work itself and the content of the work of our commission of inquiry came a month ago to the Secretariat of the Supreme Council and to the Head of the Supreme Council. Regrettably, the report of the Interim Investigation Commission has not yet been included in the agenda and is not being considered on the Supreme Council. What's more, there's a letter signed by Boris Cold, who, I'm sorry for the free speech, I'm going to try to see him as a way to seek protection from the President of Ukraine, and he's asking to create the same commission, a working commission in the Supreme Council, I think that's a commendable decision in this case, but until then, in Parliament, not to discuss the information of the interim commission of inquiry at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I believe that this letter is not sufficient reason to remove from the order of the Supreme Council a review of the report of the interim commission of inquiry created by the Supreme Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u110	Thank you. More questions, though, do not run away, perhaps questions will come to you, please. Any questions? Please sign up for five minutes. On the board, please. Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u111	Please give Igor Ostas.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u112	Igor Ostaš, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u113	Mr. Reporter, in the questions raised by the Ukrainian national deputies, there was indeed a serious concern about the monopolization of Ukrainian television broadcasting. And it really is. Because, as one of the deputies put it, the air is really divided between Medvedchuk and Pinchuck. Unfortunately, in Mr. Cold's response, we've heard a phrase that's been repeating for months now, saying that we can't talk about a real study of the monopolization of television, because legislation doesn't foresee, let's say, a clear qualification of the owners of television channels, but there are just co-founders. So from your point of view, can the Supreme Council of Ukraine seriously intervene and order the monopolization of Ukrainian television? So that our audience can finally be freed from the fearsome television programs that kill the honor and dignity of a citizen or cripple our children? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u114	Thank you for asking. I'd like to come back again. To this end, the Supreme Council created organs such as the National Council on Television and Radio and gave him authority. I think we need to study more the experience of the Antimonopoly Committee in this particular case. But my overall assessment is that the National Council does not fully perform its functions on this issue, not to say that the issue is not actually being addressed. And I think this function can't be replaced by organs, of course, for that we've created the National Council. And we need to do what we can for this National Council to exercise its authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u115	Valentina Seminouk, please, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u116	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleague, I'd like to ask you two questions. Please tell me, has the commission analyzed who and which channel has ownership today, that is, because you, as a member of the commission, see that it's very beautiful because the stock market is not working, it's using a very nice trend -- it's giving an oligarch or, more faithfully, a gift for keeping quiet on some issue, so that no one knows who owns the stock? Has this been analyzed by the commission? And the second. Has there been any investigation, however, as to the amount of time that Mr. Tomenko was talking about today for representatives of the political parties of the opposition and the majority? Because, in fact, no one has done that today. Has the commission analysed this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u117	We've analyzed it. Monitoring the entire space that we did, of course, wasn't able to do, but we analyzed the documents that were made during the electoral campaign, when this monitoring was done by very narrowly different organizations. Of course, you can present these materials to the Supreme Council for consideration, and we'll obviously do it, but there is, as it were, another situation that you need to understand -- today's speech is not a report from the commission of inquiry, and so in the report of the commission of inquiry, we could stop in detail on this issue. Regarding the very structure of ownership and issues related to it, and in fact related to the next more serious step, the censorship, the corresponding censorship on the television channels, as of today, I can say that complaints have come to the investigating commission that direct air has been shut down on most channels in general and that most broadcasts have been seen in some unknown even journalists today, looking at the entire air space. Such complaints about our name came.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u118	Yes, Chelnokov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u119	Please pass on the word of Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u120	Yuri Solomatin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u121	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. The system of deterrence and opposites of different branches of power, it has in all its beauty shown its flaws in this very issue -- the issue of leadership so-called the National Council on Television and Radio. Please tell us, in your opinion, all the shortcomings that have been raised are the direct responsibility of President Kuchmi of Ukraine or of the Presidential branch of power as such. If Kuchmi, then the famous slogan "Kuchum--get out!'and after that the matter is resolved. If the Presidential branch in general is to be removed, it should be removed in general, as the Communist Party of Ukraine has repeatedly declared. What is your position, and how do you feel about this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u122	Thank you. But I would like to say, really, my opinion. I think the problems are much deeper, and I'm the metastases that are much deeper in this society that, of course, have, first of all, the only right root is political. We really need to change political relations in society, change approaches to basic democratic principles. Today, I think that Ukraine is very much on this issue, let's say, back even from the gains that have been made in the last years of administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u123	Yes, thank you, time's up. Have a seat, please. Oh, come on, let's get this straight. Please, just one more question. Stay in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u124	An honourable colleague, a year ago, when the National Council report was issued, such basic claims were made. In the media, such as television, the Supreme Council is bewitched as a political body and its demeanor to Ukrainian society. There are elements of censorship by the names of specific politicians and very bad treatment of Ukrainian, disregarding the Law on the Statehood of Ukrainian Language, analysing the decisions of the Nakrad as you assess whether effective measures have been taken during this year to correct these very issues, which have been very painful.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u125	Thank you. I think that in the last year, it hasn't been the subject of a direct study of the work of our commission of inquiry, but the National Council has focused mainly on licensing and I think there's some progress. I have the impression that the issues that you've given are a huge gap in the work and the current composition of the National Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u126	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion, we've agreed on 10 minutes. Yuri Carmazin. Put your names on the board, please. Yuri Carmazin, please prepare for Artemenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u127	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine, Solidarity. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! The question that we are discussing today is extremely important for the further development of democracy in Ukraine and in general for the existence of a Ukrainian state. So I think that the comments that have been made and the critical positions that have been made should be implemented. Only they can be implemented when we have common will and very rapid decision-making. We talk a lot about the adoption of the Public Television Act. We talk a lot about what's going on in the regions. That example that UT-1 is actually now a national channel that's being stolen in public and distributed to small companies and large companies like Era shows that we have an oligarchy regime in the country. Yesterday, May 15, in Odessa, about 23 p.m., a brutally beaten lawyer, the only independent in the city of Odessa Plus, who was tried to close, Mizin Alexander Petrovich. At that time, he was in a very difficult condition, God willing to let him be healthy. The fact that this is not a domestic crime is evidenced by the fact that the attackers took the company’s documents from him. In this connection, I note that the television company Odessa Plus is being chased by people close to the Odessa City Head of Ruslan Bodelan, who has completely usurped television there, I haven't had any performances on Odessa TV, none: and during the election campaign, and now. This junta has usurped power and is destroying people today. The Attorney General does not take steps to take these people into his custody. And today Kozachenko was speaking about what other campaigns are not being given, and the same obstacles are being made. After Odessa, it's just a crisis. There are lawsuits against Odessa Plus with huge material claims that can be ruined. The call was made by ideologist Bodelan Gregory Kvasnuk and close to the city’s head by entrepreneur Sergey Demidov. Regarding the latter, he made a run for the city council, and when it was discovered that the people had not voted for him, entered the constituency, beat up the woman deputy head of the district election committee and covered up the case and closed it, and the prosecution was also silent, and the police were silent, and the people were saying, "What's going on?" That's right, the respectable leadership of the National Company, Boris Ivanovich, and others. I'm asking you to look at everything that's going on. There's the usurpation of power, people don't understand what's going on. Repeat your control powers, renew the rights of the people's deputies, because the examples that have already been cited today, and the examples, as I say, are the suppression of democracy, and the National Council we've created and anticipated, just so that it can implement democratic principles and principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u128	Yuri Artemenko, prepare for Vladimir Cherniak. Yuri Artemenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have been quite a few words since the beginning of my work in the Supreme Council and in the committee, and I have been delegated to the committee to oversee the work of the Nacvet on television and radio. That's why I can tell you that I'm here with the National Council, and I've lived with you from that time to that time. And I can tell you that there has been some progress in the work of the National Council. In particular, it is related to the fundamental change in the composition of the members of the Nacsovét. Six people have changed, representatives of various political forces have come, and this has been done hard enough, but in the end, we have a composition that reflects the true attitude of the Supreme Council and the opposition who hold leadership positions in Nacsov and balance. But I would like to say a few words, I voted yesterday, to become a member of the House, that our Nacsovet is much better for today than the one that was in 2002 and beyond, in 2000, I voted in favour of the Desert Miss and Lucenka Bill, because if a body like Nacsovite existed in the field of telecommunications, it would probably be easier for us to destroy those situations. I would like to draw a few of the problems that my colleagues have been talking about, and I would now like to address the members of the Nac Council. First. Our Committee decided to support the Council's report for 2002. The solution, I'll tell you right away, was hard enough for us, because if we compare the beginning of 2002 and the end of 2002, the distance is huge. But recent developments in recent months have shown that there has been some progress. We now consider the main task that is. First. Finally, destroy the problem that exists in Kiev on the Kiev TV channel. What you're doing is good, but despite all this desire and desire, the problem doesn't go away, in my opinion, shows only one thing: that you don't have the courage to make the decision that you already know how it should be made. Second. Let's finally get to the television channel monitor. Because when I look at the report that Nacsovite took sanctions last year, it's going, as a result, to six radio channels, radio channels are actually regional. At the same time, we see the dissension on nationals and others and the sanctions applied, the warnings at best, it's just at least ridiculous. Third. Cable TV. Let's move on, put order in this market. You know how. For its part, the Committee will introduce a bill on television and radio broadcasting, where we will provide for this rule, but you already have sufficient authority to put order in place. Next. Warmdowns 2001, 2000, 1999. And do not wait until the decision of the investigative commission or the decision of the Supreme Council is taken, you have sufficient authority now and do not have to sneeze at the courts to accept and return those channels that have been unlawfully or by the courts. Finally. Set up a relationship with the Supreme Council and the deputies. I'm just, you know, ashamed and loathsome when I see him as a respected representative of Kazachenka, he can't break into the reception of the President of the Nacsvet, and tomorrow we'll vote in favour of or already voted in favour of the MP's request; when they're not responding to the letters of Deputy Bilozir and others. And my last offer is to Vladimir Mikhailovich. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, the proposal of our committee - to take note of the 2000 report. But there's a second sentence. Let's hear the investigative committee's report anyway, because if we take it any longer, nothing good will come of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u130	Thank you. Volodymr Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u131	People's Honourable Chosen Ones! Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Is there a National Council for Television and Radio? Is Ukraine’s television area national? The question is rhetorical. No, it's not. National interests, national values, national culture, and national language are being ignored. 20-30 percent on Ukrainian television channels is ignored by the law on national language. In Ukraine, there is no national information policy and that is probably a major flaw. And that's why telespace is essentially not national. And of course, it's not just the guilt of not so much of the National Television and Radio Council, it's the fault of both the President and the government and the Parliament, we need to form national information policies and consistently implement them. And this is, by the way, the main criterion for the National Council's activities, how successful it is in implementing national information policy. The distribution of space has turned into its sale, and in fact the National Council is selling. Market. I understand that market relationships are needed, they are inevitable, but not in the distorted forms in which they exist. Everyone here said that we have an oligarchic space, I'd say it's oligopolistic, there's an oligopoly when between the oligarchs that create an oligopoly, there's a distribution of this telespace. Regional television is being hailed by local authorities and is under its heel. National channels don't do licenses. The National Council is not monitoring this. That's why, by the way, if we're talking about her guilt, that's why they don't follow the national licensing channels. You have to control and demand that they stick to them. Public television and public radio are missing. I practically don't know a country, more or less civilized, wherever it is. Parliamentary television is not available in Ukraine. The advertisement takes up a great deal of volume, and it is forceful. And finally, a terrible phenomenon is censorship. Censorship exists in many forms. Especially in the disappearance of direct air. In 1989, in 1990, under the Communist regime, I was able to get on the air at any time. Now none of us have the option. Only those who are determined by authority can receive direct air. It's totally insane. The President's administration is in control of this process. I think we need to protect the President from the President's administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u132	Thank you, Vladimir Kirilovich, time is up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u133	Freedom is a word! In word, freedom! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, time is running out to consider this matter. To conclude, please ask Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u135	Thank you, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Indeed, many of the observations made in 2001 and 2002 at the National Council report were made by the National Council. And the main thing is that legislation has been carried out in accordance with the requirements of the law, the drafting of regulations, the regulations in the National Council, as is required today by legislation. And we're before, Mikola Volodymyrovich talked about this, but right now, all the positions, the normative acts that are currently being developed are in line with the profile committee. And we work together on these documents all the time. Well, unfortunately, in September of last year, the National Council filed a license order, and the committee approved it last October. But by this time, Alexander Volodymyrovich is helping us, he promises that next week we will have this position, and we will be working on it. Other normative acts we also try to ensure that they are handled together with a profile committee. With regard to materials, documents accepted by the National Council. I can only tell Mr. Greeneve, I am grateful for this conversation and.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u136	I think you can do that, Boris Ivanovich, you can both meet and say what you think, and here's the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u137	As a whole, today's conversation in the Supreme Council, I think we're going to take a look at the National Council meeting, we're going to make an agreed decision, and I thank everyone for the conversation today at the Supreme Council meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u138	I thank you, too. Dear colleagues, obviously, what we have had in this conversation is necessary. I think the position in Parliament is one -- that the National Council is a state-wide body that reflects public interests, community positions and needs. And it's very good that today is in line with the international council and the billing committee. And if decisions were to be made together, we have a long distance between the legislative base and practical activity. It is more important for us today to make clear our common decisions. I think we'll be fine then. I ask the committee to take another look at the draft decisions. If necessary, work on it, taking into account the discussion, so that we can make the appropriate decision Thursday on the results of the National Council report. Is there no objection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, maybe we didn't take a break, and at 13 o'clock, we'd go straight to the Vault, and now we're looking at a number of questions? Thank you. And I want to consult again. We have two bills: 2002 and 2043. So we can talk to them right now, and we can talk about it? We'd save some time. Is there no objection? Then the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Implementing Implementation, the Act on Amending the Ukrainian Law on State Enforcement, and the Act on Implementing Implementation are announced for consideration. I invite you to the report of the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Ms. Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. I ask you to pay attention, Your Honor, that when it is recorded that the Minister of Justice reports, he will always report in person. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u140	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The format of the report under two laws gives me the opportunity, apparently, to give a general overview of the problem. I'm not going to talk about the significance of what needs to be settled in the enforcement system, because in this room there are enough questions that arise, and those questions and appeals that come after a court decision. Work over the year on the problem of changing the situation has shown that it will not be possible to move forward without a substantial change in the regulatory framework. Most of them are a series of laws, two of which are under consideration today. The basic substance of the laws that are proposed today is to ensure the clarity of procedural action in the execution of court decisions on the one hand, on the other hand, to establish a clear regime of control over this process and to provide for procedural rights for those who will have the right to intervene in the event of a deviation from the rule of law in the actions of State contractors. This is mostly about the law that stands before us today. There are also a number of funds that create conditions for more efficient conduct when different geography is needed, and allow for the creation of special groups that work independently of what the district administration of justice is working in. This is also true of the procedure of arresting property and removing such arrest when necessary. Other issues related to procedural action in the work of government contractors are also addressed. In another bill, there are changes that apply to the organization of the work of the service itself. It is set up today, and the regulatory framework that works gives it the right to perform executive conduct only to government contractors in areas and cities. Such a situation has a large number of problems that arise both in the control of the legality of actions and in the effectiveness of the implementation of one or the other. Changes are proposed to allow for the introduction of special government weights, or that relate to very large sums in the state, to be made by special units created in the Department of State Executive Services. And also those that relate to the substantive issues of the regions to be carried out by the special departments of the district administrations. So there's not a situation that we have from time to time, and the last thing we have is a problem that has arisen in the Kharkiv area, when it's very difficult today to influence the situation of a violation of the law, when there are only one executive in the area, and it's operating on such sums and decisions that generally affect the strategic positions of the state. These are the main proposals in the changes that are proposed for our consideration and I hope that in preparing for second reading we will be able to take into account the new nuances that emerged during the year since these bills were submitted for consideration because they were submitted in July last year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, questions. Please sign up, five minutes. For the time being, please, Vitaly Shibko. I've already announced. Never mind to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u142	It's been expelled from the list of deputies for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u143	The car got tired in a week.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u144	Yesterday you overloaded it, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you must give it back. Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Alexander Volodymyrovich, I'll be honest with you. I mean, the Dnipropetrov area, where there are numerous violations of this process all the time, there are discounts and deductions of such a plan that there are no frames, there is no possibility, and so on, that is to say, this has not been done at all. Tell me, please, what you've proposed is a law that's kind of a positive note. But please answer that question. So many today are for every performer on average, you've analyzed, or whatever he's doing, and how many of us have in the areas of these performers, that is, those people who go directly, they knock on the door and they don't let go, they push them out, and they still have to make that decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u145	I thank you for that question. I'll start to answer to you on the other side. There's not a problem today, let's say, with the load. a performer who physically enables him to carry out his duties effectively. In various areas it is different, and on average in Ukraine it is about 180 executives per performer per month. You realize that this is a number that doesn't allow us to talk about timely and effective execution. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine made a major step last year to solve this problem and other decisions to increase the number of executive services, but only 30 percent of the wages for these people were budgeted. As a result, such a step - by - step set is going on, and each month the emergency is improved with stress. As for the question of the Dnipropetrov region, you just asked me what I wanted to do in my report and say. Not only are there problems, but there are clear violations in specific areas of the work of the executive service. The Dnipropetrov region belongs to such regions, and I had to ask the Attorney General's Office a month ago to file a criminal case and deal with the activities of the executive officers of the Dnipropetrov region. Because internal ministerial instruments are not enough to allow proper action. This was the result of the tests that were done in this work. And of course, at the time of execution, there is some problem with the possibility of nullifying the illegal decisions that are being made today, and there are no such rights, they are laid down in these draft laws. And what's relevant to control, too. So there's a problem here. And in general, this job, you understand very well, this job is in a state of constant conflict, because the official is going to force someone to give what's his, but what he's going to hand over to another person physically or legally. So this service, let's say, needs sufficient legal knowledge and the psychological state of the soul of those who work there. It's a far cry from easy work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u146	Stanislaw Nikolainko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u147	Nikolainka, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! I want to be honest with you that I got the most charges from the electorate after all with the performance of the executive service. In the past year, I have 950 phone calls from the Hersonian region, from Novotroitsky, Chaplinsky, Gornotostivsky, and Genicev region. That's the point. Five-six thousand debt on salary, that's in every village, the liquidation commission is, it's doing nothing, the executive department is fixing that there's no property, and the property is, everything is sold, no one controls anything. Whether you have additional punitive functions or reinforcements required to enforce a court’s decision. I'm cursed. I'm no longer grounded. I turned to the deputy, and what I could do to give them back their belongings or their money. What do we have to do, that the court's decisions were finally executed?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u148	On the one hand, it's simple, on the other hand, it's very difficult. Even after the adoption of these laws, we will not be able to ensure full implementation of all decisions, because today, at the normative level, there is a ban on the execution of court decisions, as it may not sound paradoxically, but in the presence of, let's say, the law on moratoriums on the forced alienation of state property, we cannot implement decisions that apply to state-owned enterprises. Also, when the court decides to declare the subject bankrupt, all enforcement agencies stop and continue to operate only. commission. This is a decision to restore the debtor’s ability to pay or to recognize his bankruptcy. This is the law that was passed in this room, which is now in force in Ukraine. That's why it's here. As for the problem in the village that you raised, it's right near the plane that I'm talking about the state of bankruptcy and how you can find the succession of debtors. We have a large number of debtors of collective agricultural enterprises who have not been calculated on wages where language goes. And still, when it comes to the legal succession of those debts that are, and the possibility of removals or costs, or property in general, there's actually a problem with whether or not there's liquid assets in the legal person who's the successor or there's no successor at all, there's a very serious problem here that can't be solved even for a few months. We're taking it one step at a time. I want to say, at least over the course of this year, the weight of decisions being made has increased by two. This is, let's say, what we did without changing the regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u149	Yes, thank you. Alexander Volodymyrovich, time is up. Have a seat, please. I invite the head of the committee's committee on legal policy, Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, to report. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u150	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Legal Policy reviewed the draft laws of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian law on enforcement and amending the laws of Ukraine on the State Executive Service and the enforcement of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The purpose of the draft Ukrainian law is to regulate the enforcement mechanism to ensure timely, full and impartial implementation by the authorities of the State Enforcement Service of decisions of courts and other bodies, officials. Another draft law proposes that the Department of State Enforcement Services of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and the Department of State Executive Services of the Ministry of Justice in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district of Kyiv and Sevastopol city administrations of jurisdiction for the enforcement of decisions, determine the status of employees of the authorities of the State Executive Service. Of course, we are grateful to the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which gave a thorough assessment of these bills, the Committee shares the assessments that the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration has given. And I would like to point out that we do not support the exclusion of decisions by arbitral tribunals from the list of decisions to be applied, because the arbitral tribunal is the body for the consideration of disputes that arise between the parties to civil and commercial relations. Other comments that need to be made are those that need to be clarified about the accusation of which decision to verify the performance of the test is made because two decisions are made in the course of the test, both on its execution and on the results of the test. It should be shortened to a minimum of 7 working days instead of the proposed 15. Because the scary fibers go and nobody needs the fibers, the Ukrainian citizens are talking about it and they're talking about the MPs, they're complaining about the fiber that's going on. The committee is overwhelmed by such complaints about fiber. This is particularly true of the Donetsk region, the Lugansk region, the Donetsk region. There's a hell of a fiber. Next. What we think is -- we need to change the laws -- it's a fundamental thing to change, because the rules and the whole bills are the same -- the committee considers it necessary to put them together for the second reading and to submit them for consideration by the Supreme Council in the second reading as the only bill. The rules allow this to happen. And you can do that. We believe that the adoption of these bills will contribute to guaranteeing the protection of the rights and legally protected interests of citizens and legal persons in the enforcement process, as well as to significantly improving the activities of the State enforcement service in the implementation of decisions. I would like to add that with the arrival of Minister Lavrinovich and Deputy Secretary of State Shupeni, who is responsible for these matters, this situation has improved somewhat. But what we're concerned about is that now the terms of the tender for the right to effect the confiscated property are narrowed down by the courts, the possibilities are narrowed down and the unequal conditions are placed between large enterprises and medium-sized enterprises, on condition. I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Justice. Because the conditions that are currently being written are actually written to rule out small and medium-sized enterprises. The question is that it is given the right to those who have divisions in all areas. And in all areas, he only had Crossroads about his activities, probably very rarely any of the deputies received letters and didn't know. In particular, I would like to point out that the Committee on Budget Issues, which has considered these bills in accordance with their budget code and the State Budget Act, believes that the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Laws of Ukraine on the State Enforcement and Enforcement will have an impact on the expenditure portion of the budget and therefore its rules are required, in accordance with Article 27 of the Budget Code, not earlier than the beginning of the next budget period. In general, I think that this law should be adopted, as I have already said, by the committee, as the only bill in the first reading, and on the second reading, all these remarks that have been made, which will be made today, can be taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u151	Yes, Your Honor, the report is over. If you have any questions, please write them down. Five minutes. On the board, please give me the names of the national MPs. Sergey Slubenko, please, non-fractional. Is it weak? Oh, yes, there is. Sergei Slabenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u152	That's my question. Yuri Anatoliyovich, and yet does this bill resolve situations that arise in monopolistic enterprises, debtors who have two, three, four, five, ten executives? Which have not been paid for years by paid wages, regressive wages? Will the functions of such special units be carried out against such enterprises? Because that's what happened to me in Novovolinsky about the problem of miners. And the second question is, aren't we going to get the result of some monopolist who's going to, well, say, say, "very complicated things to decide," well, orders to decide? Because we all understand very well that by implementing it you can pause it, put it down, well, there are certain standards that allow it to be delayed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u153	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich, for the highly professional questions, they're actually very deep. Of course, these projects don't solve all the questions, but they're getting closer to settling the relationship you're talking about. And I would like to say that this project proposes to give the Ministry of Justice, its administration the right to make recommendations for the execution by the State's perpetrators of judicial and other decisions that are relied upon by the State's enforcement. I don't think it's right that this has to be ruled out of the law, it could have a negative impact on the activities of government contractors, and in general what's happening today, the decision under article 57 has come to a complete absurdity when district education authorities, the city education authorities say they don't have the funds to pay, they hide themselves, they open the bill, you say quite right. I believe that these executive services are simply improperly carrying out their duties in this case on the basis of the legislation that is in force. These are examples in many cities right now, especially now I'm looking at the teachers' collective complaint about the city of Odessa, and I've drawn the attention of the minister of justice to what people are talking about today, and they're saying, well, here's the solution. And they say they can't do it. Actually, I think we're going to add something to the second reading here to ensure implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u154	Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u155	Vladimir Yavorowski, Victor Yushchenka’s block, Lvivščina, Yavorowski and Jovkovsky district. Dear Mr. Jury, well, you know that we live with you in a very specific country with a very original political and legal handwriting, and we are considering a very important law, and I have a constant collapse, my brain, an idea, and what kind of executive service we would like to design, what kind of law do we bring under it, so that, let's say, today's incident that detonates today in all of Ukraine, which is the decision of the court to release these people from prison and no one releases them. What kind of ministry would help us to make this decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u156	Thank you, Volodymyr Alexanderovich. I want to tell you that it was in this case that the State Executive Service of the Ministry of Justice was on high ground, because the bailiff came along with the National Deputies. So that tape I heard yesterday from the head of the State Department and the head of the Attorney General's Office, well, it just doesn't fit anywhere. A man came to execute a judicial decision along with a judicial executioner. In order to do even better, it is suggested that article 20 should be supplemented by the State’s ability to carry out executive actions in the identification and collection of funds in the accounts and deposits of the debtor in the institutions of banks or other financial institutions, in the account of the securities in the depository in the territory to which it does not extend the function of the Department of State Executive Services in which it operates. So we're giving additional powers to government contractors that he didn't have today, which resulted in a lot of decisions that haven't been implemented. And here I think you just have to have a conscience about the question that you've asked, and just common sense and political will, and just make the decision, as it might be. And what we are told today is that three times have passed, the Supreme Council, all of the people of Ukraine will report that they do not know where people were taken after the verdict of their release. Do you understand? Is there still such a state? It seems to me that Bambudustan was called the wrong state.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u157	Olga Hinzburg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u158	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Hinzburg, Conotapsk 161 constituency, Communist faction Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, I wanted to ask the honourable minister this question, but it turned out there was no turn. That's my question. If, for example, in meeting with voters, there are large numbers of people calling for unpaid wages both in the villages and in the cities and in specific organizations. There's a question. The Justice Department is sending answers. We can't help because there's a bankruptcy scheme going on here, and the exodus is working, so that's good. There are companies where the bankruptcy scheme doesn't work. For example, I'm taking the Svema factory, the Sixth State, 95 percent of the government's shares, and the state is running this company. There are decisions, but they don't work either, I honestly know the answers to all these questions, I want these answers to be heard by my voters, and whether this law that we're discussing right now is going to fix anything in this situation or not. And at the end of the day, please tell me, there was no such thing in the Soviet State, what happened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u159	Thank you very much, you're really in pain for your constituents, and I know that from the last call. But in fact, the answer, you know, is very complex, it's complex, because the Master Court is there, and when the Master Courts, the whole system is headed by an illegal person whose authority has ended, Dmitri Pritica. Almost two years after the mandate was completed. I've been asking questions here, and I'm saying, look at all the lawyers, for everyone, obviously, but the President needs to keep a man on the hook. So how can we put it today? So that's how it works out. As for performers, once again, this is a complex issue. This few laws apply to the fulfillment of all things. That's why voters, when they talk to the MP, signal -- it's like the nerve of their MP. But we can't help you. But we predicted in these changes, along with Kabmin, that changes would give us both the opportunity and the search for property and the repossession of available property, and after the distribution of the load, and in the event of inadequacies, they would say how they were headed yet. Of course, if you can't return from the air and then from the air. There was no such thing as liquidation of enterprises for privatization. And now we're running out of businesses, deliberately bringing them to the pen to privatize. Look at the example of all the Odessa sanatoriums they privatized, look at the example of the Crimean sanatoriums, look at all the things you don't see, all the businesses are brought to the pen, and then they're redeemed. So it's on purpose, it's a harmful activity, but so far the government doesn't want to pay any attention to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u160	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, time is up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u161	I understand that a state enterprise is such a situation that we have to compensate the state, in principle, theoretically.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u162	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Let's talk about this for 15 minutes if we need to. Who signed up for the show? Vladimir Cherniak, prepare Melniczuk Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u163	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, the draft laws amending the laws of Ukraine on the State Executive Service and implementing implementation are an update on the current moment -- it's really the nerve of the moment. No legal state is possible if no court decisions are made. If we do not resolve this issue, there can be no progress on the path of the creation of the rule of law. Bills are designed to create conditions for the timely, full and impartial execution of court decisions. Judgments in Ukraine are usually not executed. I say usually, and that's not an exaggeration. I remember people coming to me in the district all the time, how difficult it is to solve cases in court at all times. Court authorities work, let's say, openly, ineffectively. If even court decisions are made, they are not executed. And this is absolute nonsense, and people can't accept it, they can't accept it, they can't accept it. And I think that we, as deputies, are bound along with the Ministry of Justice, with other structures, to make appropriate changes in order to move forward in this matter. There is no clear control over the execution of court decisions. Actually, there's no clarity in the procession right now. These laws are designed to solve this problem to the full. There is a deviation from the law in the work of lawbreakers. That's the paradox. Those who are to obey the law and are called upon, and are in the public service, and receive the wages, let them not high, they do not obey the law. Why? Of course, in many ways they are to blame, there are also elements of corruption that are certain, but not only that. The main reason, in my opinion, is that they are constantly under pressure. The government does not allow the executioners of judicial decisions to make judicial decisions. She's putting pressure on them, threatening them. And it's completely abnormal. So we have a situation of vachanalism, an irresponsibility based on impunity. Give me one example of those who failed to execute judicial decisions and those who hindered them. If we don't, we can write laws, and they won't work. I don't think this law will solve everyone. These two laws will solve all the problems, these two laws are a palatifist, but at least they are a step in the right direction, and I think we have a reason to adopt them in the first reading. I think that in the process of preparing for second reading, you need to write more clearly the penalty mechanism, the sanction mechanism, and above all, the mechanism for controlling their actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u164	Mikhailo Vasilovich Melniczuk. Next Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u165	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich! Dear colleagues! The two bills that were given to us today, and we had the opportunity and the opportunity to work earlier, I would like to make a few personal remarks to the bill on the first bill. What about article 37, paragraph 5. If the borrower does not have the property that he is required to pass on to the downloader under the executing document. With regard to this article and paragraph 5. I support the National Deputy Nikolaynko, who anxiously told the deputies and all of Ukraine about what we have in the village. The way the property is drawn. The bad leaders who come in, as it were, thanks to the reforms in the villages that are passing through, and take control of the farms, prove that practically millions of damages and then all of the property comes in, which belongs to those who own their property there, it's to peasants, it's drawn from peasants, even as they say, and they don't ask anyone whose property it is. And so I think that we have legislation or this law doesn't solve the problem that is in the country today. I was in Chernivetske, Odessa, Cherkaske, Lvivsky, Ravenske, and I was approached by peasants on this subject when they said they came to the brigade, they took all the tractors, where was our property? They came to pick up their own beautiful sociocultural facilities. Ladies and gentlemen! It's practically the property of the territorial community. And here is the executive service that chooses such objects. In particular, I would like to draw attention to what is being done in the countryside. There's a mill where 3,000 citizens use it. He removes the administration, the executive service, and sells the object, and then in a few months, the owner of the Chernivites appears there, let's let Lviv dictate his prices to the villagers for the services that are available. This is, I think, a very careful look at these bills. Article 44 needs more attention, article 55, "Incarceration on the property of the debtor", article 59, I would like them to be further developed on second reading. I cannot help but fulfill the mandate of the voters of the Chernivites, and perhaps for a few seconds I will take over the regulations that are addressed to the Chief of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, to President Kuchma, to Yanukovic. "We, as members of the labour community, are unknown to you, address you to put an end to the attempts of certain political forces and individuals. discredit before the head of state and residents of the country of the leadership of the Montenegrin District Authority. The district manager’s discredit campaign builds on the accumulation of lies , cynicism and treachery. We ask you to take steps to support the State’s leadership, personally his head, Theophilus Josephovich Bauer. Here's Bauer, who's sending food to labor groups and Odobrams to support the head of the administration, who's practically led to the destruction of the Chernobyl area. And today his assistants, to deal with the village, are going with these to the labor groups, who are sorry to spit on this action of the executive authority of the Montenegrin region. Let the commission appointed by the President and the Prime Minister give an assessment to the actions of this head. I'm handing this thing over to the Secretariat for Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u166	Puzakov Volodymyr Tikhovitch. Next Olga Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u167	The amendment of this draft Ukrainian law is also normal. But as the Minister of Justice is present today, I would like to give an example of the poor state of the communal enterprise, which has affected the population and the people working for it. The city of Kirovograd has a cultural park and a holiday called Kovalovski. By a decision of the Gorispolkom in 1993, it was transferred to the Lenin region. The flowering corner of mass rest was being built in Soviet times, and now it has been transformed into a museum reform. Since 2001, funds have been cut short. People got laid off with a lot of pay. One of the victims was a senior recreational park master, Isaev Alla Nikolayevna, who worked at the company for six years. Upon leaving work due to the continuing payment of her salary in 2002, at the time of her dismissal, the company owed her 1,416 bracelets and had not yet been paid. She had visited the Lenin district court twice, and, indeed, the court had decided on both occasions to pay her debt. But the utility, which is not in the territory of America, but still in Ukraine, gives the same answer, "No funds." After that, I had to ask the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Mr. Lavrinović, to ask him. The Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Zupény, did not help with the request, but referred again to the lack of funds in the utility. True, in his reply to me and in a copy of Isaiah’s victim, he explained that she did not lose her right to seek justice for another three years. It's called joy! As you can see, the circle is closed - even the upper echelons of power can't help a working man. This is a violation of article 43, 48 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which guarantees a person the opportunity to earn a living and a family. It turns out it's theoretical and practically human, but the state doesn't pay for it. What is more, when a person owes a State for housing or utilities, the State responds decisively by allowing the authorities on the ground to turn off light, water, and even to evict them from their homes! And when a State owes a person, there is no response. The question is, What kind of State do we live in? Where is the word of our constitutional guarantor? Why is he silent? Or is he unaware of such outrageous facts of human abuse? If the lower echelons on the ground do not comply with the court's decision, no matter why, the Ministry of Justice has an obligation to help solve the problem and even to close the arrears on wages. And yet justice, Mr. Lavrinović, must be restored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u168	Olga Hinzburg, next Onechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u169	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the Honourable Head, the honourable electors of my country! Hinzburg, 161 constituency, Communist faction. I went out to address this question because it is very painful. And who can understand me? Members who often meet with their constituents know that it is a matter that needs to be resolved not today but yesterday. You're sitting at the reception, a man comes to you and says, "Are you a representative of the government today, please tell me, Reverend Olga Petrovna, when I get my money that I've earned?" They've been hanging for two years. There's 6,000. Or 8 grand. So tell me? And I look at him and I think, "Who am I?" Whether I'm a deputy, whether I'm even a person who can't decide anything, and I'm starting to say, yes, well, I'll take your statement, I'll go to the Ministry of Justice, well, let's go to the President, maybe I'll speak from the rostrum, or maybe I'll go to Kiev with the flag. Well, what's he doing to me? And I come and I suffer all the time. Because I just can't put that letter somewhere in a box or in a table. I sit over him, I direct him to the Ministry of Justice, where the answer comes to me: if this enterprise is going to be eliminated, then I'm told that we're not interfering and that it's going to work, that the liquidation commission works there, then -- goodbye, sorry, I can't decide, or else something comes to me, or else, and eventually the person comes and says, "After such active correspondence, I didn't get my money." Today I'm going to say, I'm reading the Constitution, I'm going to take the Constitution that we're about to vote for here in this room, and what is the basis, and what is the basis, and we all have to do it, and it's very clearly written. I don't know what other laws there are and who's getting involved in doing this today. I read the Constitution, clearly, article 40, "forced alienation or other objects with the next full compensation of their value, perhaps only allowed under conditions of war or state of emergency, point, and everything else. [[That's what a person made, for example, in a farm, I'm going to stop below.]] If there's a war situation or a state of emergency in the country, let's say from the rostrum, we're in that state, if not, otherwise. In my village, where I was born, the village of Vishnka, people always listen to me, everything, there is no farm, stretched out. The people's guilty money was sold by tractors or combines out there, for example, in another village, where these mills sold them, and all of a sudden, no one's deciding on the return of that money. Someone's using it, and I'm sorry. My districts are Šostkinski, my districts are Konotapski, Krolevetski district, Šostka city, Konotop city, and mass entrepreneurs. mass factories don't pay wages. I'm going to be talking today at "The Different" about the Svema factory, it's a state enterprise, the president issued a decree, give people their money, pay them their wages! But no one's moving anywhere, one guy's talking to himself in some vacuum, we're talking to the third one, the third one's talking. And people are waiting, they've chosen us, and I'm thinking we can work something out. I, after reading this law that we are discussing today, concluding my speech, I want to say that there is little hope that if we adopt this law, there is little hope that some of these returns that are being made today by the executive service can be resolved, but no, as the minister of justice said today, that some laws prevent these issues from being resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u170	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u171	I'm sorry. Then who, if we have a Constitution, should make proposals to change those laws that interfere. Who? Probably the Justice Department, too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u172	Mikola Oneschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u173	Mikola Onischuk, faction of the Political Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs and Hard Ukraine. Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, and respected citizens of Ukraine. Although the bills themselves are not so extensive, their significance is quite high, given that the execution of the court’s decisions is no less important than the court’s decision. You and I, almost every week of the session, approve the selection of judges on an untimely basis, and we should be aware of the fact that the decision-making by these courts is only then of some social value when these decisions can be implemented. And by the way, the situation that's going on here in Parliament with the execution of the court decisions that we've been discussing, that's what this is all about. It should be noted that the Minister of Justice, the government in his person, had to come to the Parliament of Ukraine sooner or later, because the organizational resource, which, thanks in particular to the new minister today, has been made to improve the work of the State Executive Service, has almost exhausted itself, and I think that this is not the latest project, Alexander Volodymyrovich, with which you come to Parliament with a view to improving the work of the State Executive Service. I can say for sure that even if we're significantly moving forward in terms of the organizational provision of the state executive service, the material security, we're still going to have a collapse situation if we're going to assume that almost a third of the court's decisions can't be implemented because there are legislative constraints on the acquisition of property. It seems to me that soon there must be a bill in Parliament under the general title, "On amending Ukraine's laws on improving the enforcement of court decisions, which all of these today's burdens and obstacles to the enforcement of judicial decisions must be lifted. I mean, in particular, the illegal alienation of property of state enterprises, and tax evasion, and the process of banning bankruptcy proceedings, and many others that are actually, in fact, against the execution of court decisions today. No matter how technical and organizationally armed the executioner is, he comes in, he's shown court decisions, or he's referred to the rules of law that can't be enforced. So by supporting the bills that are being tabled today and being absolutely convinced that they need to be adopted, I think we can expect today from the government new and legislative initiatives that would create more appropriate legislative conditions to improve the situation as a whole with the implementation of judicial decisions. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, consider matters. Time's up, 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u175	Thank you very much, Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Kyiv region. Dear colleagues, the laws are right, we need to adopt them, we support them all together, but I want to point out that the very nature of private-ownership relationships that has been established in our society, it creates prerequisites for us to have that kind of relationship and that kind of relationship between people and the solution of these relationships. So I want to pay attention to everyone who listens to us today, and we need to change the system of socio-economic relations in society, and then we won't need such an executive service at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u176	Vitaly Shibko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u177	Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, of the procedure. We're talking about two questions, so it might increase time. That's the first one. And the second. We don't have two hours left, not one and a half, we can't solve anything. Can we continue this discussion?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u178	Please. It's got you and the workman and everything. Please, will you talk? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u179	Dear colleagues! I want to return the issues, not to the painful ones that exist today in connection with the work of our service, but to get your attention back to the bill that we are considering, I'm talking about amending the Ukrainian Laws on State Enforcement and Implementing Implementation. When you familiarize yourself with these bills and with those that are being proposed, such thoughts come to your attention. First. For example, I don't use the car that's written on the Supreme Council tablet, so I often have to stop in front of the state's car service, and I'm always surprised when a major or a lieutenant colonel is standing with this face. I know he can't make a living, too, and they're being kicked out to patrol instead of sergeants. When I read this bill, it seems to me that we're reenacting the generals and the colonels, which is the main link that should work in this case, these are the people who work in the areas. And we're once again proposing to increase the state of the people who work in areas that work in the central apparatus. And we understand that if these people put on the right kind of drive and pull the lights on themselves, they won't go knocking on the door, they won't go doing this work directly. So this is what I want to propose. Maybe we don't need this law to increase the equipment that's in the areas, maybe it's better in the areas, let people work there directly with such hard and not very grateful work, because it's going to take something away from you as they look at you. So here's a proposition that needs to be taken into account today when this law is being drafted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u180	Yuri Orobec, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u181	Dear colleagues! I'm extremely short. First of all, I would like to ask you a question. Please tell me, can a person who receives a salary of 200 dollars come to another person who owes and has a salary of a thousand or more dollars and fulfill his official duty and withdraw from it the amount he owes? Obviously not. If we translate this problem into a plane of the law that we are considering, there is just a lack of a system of how wages should be formed at the very level of the level of the level on which judicial decisions are to be made. I think we should think about it and consider these questions in our second reading. But that's not enough. We need to figure out what we need to do with the State budget to ensure this decision. If we do that, in this case our law will be effective and we will benefit our people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u182	Let's finish the question. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich, do you have any thoughts on the matter?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u183	If there is such a possibility, I could briefly answer for a minute some of the positions that were taken during the discussion. The lunar suggestion is that there may be some monopolism in action, and if a special unit is created in the ministry. And the last one was about. For the last time, I'm sorry about the increase in the number of generals with the stick. I want to say that if you open the text of this law, there are exactly two criteria for implementation by the department of the Ministry. It's when the answer is the Supreme Council, the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Auditorium, the central authorities. And if the sum is more than 10 million dollars. All of it. And it's not the generals, it's the same sergeants who work independently, whether they're in Konotap or Drodobich, or in Kiev, they're the same sergeants. They don't run the department's minister or director, they don't work, so the issue is settled here, and the exact criteria are settled, and the approach is solved. What has been raised is the question of individuals who have made decisions that prevent them from making decisions. I think you may know that this has also been heard repeatedly, there are such problems and officials who intervene and do not allow the full amount of decision-making to be carried out in a timely manner, there are such appeals to the prosecutor’s office regarding the responsibility of persons who are impeding the execution of judicial decisions. Regrettably, of course, the number of cases that have been broken, and then the decisions taken on these cases, are very small. But such a mechanism is working and obviously will also need to be made aware that the responsibility and the mechanism for achieving the outcome in this direction is also foreseen for obstructing the execution of a judicial decision or for knowingly failing to do so. The problem with wages, where the language was given in Novovolinsky, is that it's a problem for 100 percent of state-owned enterprises, where the problem is that in order to do forced action, you have to stop the mines. And that problem can't be solved soon enough. According to the draft laws that have been applied, who should be initiating. What I'm saying is that we initiated these draft laws. Unfortunately, last year the draft law, which repeals the moratorium, did not receive the majority here in the session hall. And the second draft of the law was also initiated and received no support early this year. So obviously we're going to go back to that. The decisions of the courts in Ukraine must be carried out by all. And if the name of Ukraine makes a decision, and it's all of the charges passed, it's entered into legal force, it's bound to be done. And on this path, we will seek your support for the necessary changes to Ukrainian legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, the review of draft laws amending the laws of Ukraine on the State Executive Service and implementing implementation has been completed. These are documents under 2002, 2043. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. 13 o'clock, we have to move on to the Miscellaneous. I'm asking you to put on the board of those who signed up for the various shows. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u185	Ladies and gentlemen of the nation, the distinguished, suffering people of Ukraine! People are always addressing me with violations of their rights, violations of Ukrainian legislation, and we have to react. We should only have one reaction, whether it's a parliamentary request or a parliamentary request. I'm asking you that very often we get formal answers to our reactions. And then it's hard to protect people. It is difficult to protect even in such a case that occurred the other day when I went as a representative of the committee to the National Deputies, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, and was hindered in my legal activities by representatives of the Department of Execution. This is a criminal offence. I'm asking you to give me a mandate to investigate, file a criminal case, investigate this criminal crime -- obstructing the legal activity of the deputy. The other one. I was approached by the heads of district consumer associations, circuit associations of consumer associations in the Kyiv region, regarding the gross violation of legislation by the Kyiv Lord’s Court in the exercise of justice. Yes, there was the 14th consecutive gathering of consumer cooperatives in the Kyiv region, the higher authority of Kiev's food supply. The convention was attended by about 15,000. Kyiv region spiders. The event was prepared by an organizational committee, by legal persons — the Central Union of Consumer Associations of Ukraine, the BAR, the Vassillsk, the Borodnian, the Fastish, the Castic, the Goutinian, the town’s, the Boorsil district consumer associations were not part of the assembly, did not take part in its preparation, did not take part in any acts. related to the convention and its preparation. At the same time, the representative of the Kiev industry, Mr. Pak, addresses the farm industry, I pay attention to yours, to the Kyiv household court of the city of Kiev, and to the charge of declaring unreal acts of preparation and execution of the above mentioned convention, as well as the acts adopted on it. As I have studied these references, I have found that this case is totally illegal for judges to be brought before it, and it is being considered unlawfully. People are good! What is this doing?Oh, my God! The convention can no longer be held. Look what was going on there, I'm going to the Attorney General's Office, and especially to Svetoslav Piscoon. Who in the Attorney General’s Office covers the management of the Kyiv District Food? They threaten people, criminal cases are already broken on specific facts, dogs are put on people, people are in the hospital. I'm asking you to figure it out. That's 15 grand. Kyiv region spiders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u186	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u187	Please correct this as a parliamentary address on behalf.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u188	Mikola Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u189	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Kirovgrad. The laws adopted by the Supreme Council certainly should all serve the people and be solely on their side. But today there are many barriers in the way of a simple person, if he is anxious to solve a question. And how much time and energy must be lost to bypass the criminal, corrupt environment of the President of Ukraine, for which nothing is sacred in this life anymore. And all these bureaucratic wanderings of the Kuchmow ruling regime urge the entire people of Ukraine to lose faith in something just, and are increasingly convinced of the injustices of the bureaucrat's official apparatus, its actions and actions. This, for example, has happened to the famous city organization of trade unions of public institutions. Member trade union contributions, which for ten years had been on the accounts of the agro-industry bank “Ukraine”, and at any time had the right to receive money from its account for the social needs of the trade union. But it wasn't there! As you all know, after the presidential election, for some reason, the bank suddenly broke down, that is to say, it failed, and a circle was formed. And the balance of more than 6,000 bracelets has been blocked to date. However, the employees of the notorious bitter trade union since the bankruptcy of the bank “Ukraine” have applied not only to banking institutions but also to the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine, and not even to the Office of the President of Ukraine, but no authority has helped them to recover this money, especially now that they are needed for the social needs of members of the trade union and for the recovery of children, especially since in many families today children are not receiving any necessary food, treatment or rest. In this regard, the question is whether anyone in our country is directing this question of who to believe in this life and how to be people, when the President and his environment, such as Stoyan, have created a paradise life on the bones of the people and spit on that people. This is a violation of human rights, but the “union god” of Ukraine is not aware of this. In this situation, perhaps the exit should be one, the people of Ukraine should know, and the famous city union of public institutions should conclude that simple people hope for such “fathers” of the country, and if they are not able to return this money, of course, it is a very large sum for our country of 6,000 bracelets, and perhaps, of course, tell Vladimir Mikhailovich where else to turn to the famous trade unions? Maybe the U.N.? My statement is to be considered as a parliamentary request to the Attorney-General, Mr. Piscoon Svetoslav Mihajlovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u190	Is there a Mikola Sherschun? Vladimir Leschenko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u191	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. In the city of Chernigov, an interim election of Ukraine’s national deputy will take place on June 8, 206, in a single-member constituency district. On May 14, an official campaign for candidates began. The situation surrounding the elections about outright ignoring valid legislation from a series of electoral subjects is similar to that of a year ago in the election of Ukraine’s national deputies. While those authorities that are required to control the enforcement of laws do not allow lawlessness, action is not being taken in this direction. First of all, I mean, the prosecutor's office. For example, the prosecutor’s office of the Chernigiv region, which has been in the past for almost 14 months, has not made any decision on two appeals by the District Election Commission of the one-member constituency No. 206 concerning gross violations of electoral legislation. The first since March 31st last year, No. 143. It reported that the then head of the district government administration, Budko, in his speech on the district radio on March 30, the day that the campaign was over, and the official could not even advertise, was direct campaigning among the electorate. As early as July of last year, I had made a parliamentary inquiry on this issue to the Attorney General, so far I had not received any reports of any action taken. And the second. Since March 31st last year, No. 142 on the route on the streets of Chernigova on the day of the Trolleybus election, which has been labeled the entire length of "For the One Ukraine!" And the emblem of this constituency. There is also no response. Thus, in their sense of impunity, they are now committing lawlessness against certain individuals and bodies. Long before the beginning of the official agitation in the people's places of Chernigov, huge shields with a photograph of the current candidate in the Ukrainian National Deputies in the area of Jaroslavski were deployed and appeared to be neutral inscriptions, as if there were no agitation, but it is. These shields are hanging now. In addition, the fund of this candidate's brother, the national deputy of today's Jaroslavsk began: gifts to veterans, free bus and trolleybus passengers, free concert at Oleg Gazman's city stadium on May 10th, and so on. The concert was organized under the patronage of today’s head of the district administration of Melniczuk. Pompous concerts are being held now and other candidates for the Ukrainian National Deputies in this district. Doesn't the D.A. see what's going on? A Communist candidate, for example, Rays Konstantinovna, who, like most of her constituents, lives solely on salary, will not be able to arrange such a concert or give gifts as well as some other candidates. Where is the equality of all candidates? In this regard, I appeal to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Piscona, to give an official answer to the question raised. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u192	Vladimir Yavorowski, get ready for Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u193	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I have worked a little bit, and he gives me the word Oksana Bilozer registered under the ninth number and Paul Mojchán under the eleventh.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u194	If they hand it over in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u195	It's all written down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u196	Not more than two.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u197	So how much time do you give me?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u198	Six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u199	Honorable colleagues and distinguished voters. I couldn't, I didn't have time to finish my open letter to the President of Ukraine, so I'm going to try to finish it in these six minutes: ..that the biggest provocation of your environment, Mr. President, is changes to the Constitution. I'm not surprised if you say one before lunch and the opposite after lunch. So they met different people. But it's the Constitution, the only good thing that's left a positive reference to you in history, and you want to turn it into a last breath to sit on the Ukrainian throne, or rather a small Russian throne. I voted in favour of a non-functioning text thanks to you in the Constitution, with a level of democracy that is little different from the world reference. But I have to admit, it was designed for the Patriot President, for a highly moral, democratic, spiritual leader for whom Ukrainian national interests are greater than anything else. You didn't do it! And unfortunately, they didn't even want to. So in your execution, some of the postulates of the Basic Law have turned Ukraine into a post-Radians ghetto, where there is an untraceable disappearance of brilliant personalities from the opposition, where political censorship has spread, where the government has been united by common crimes, where presidential relatives and favorites have adopted a good half of the national wealth, and shadow capital has brought into the politics of the criminal world. Today the heads of government depend on one person who appoints them and releases them from you. To them, the inhabitants of the area or the area are the gray masses that only cause trouble. Therefore, it is necessary for these officials to be chosen rather than appointed by you. Similarly, ministers of power are appointed only by your will and whim, not by law and officer honor. You often humiliate them with illegal instructions, and no one publicly rebelled or resented them because they are aware of your vendetta and malice. That's why we still don't know who killed Gongadze, why the opponents of Chernobyl, Yemen, Germany, Krivenko were killed. Under the very noses of the generals of the B.C.U., the police, the prosecutor's office distributes massive circulations of fakes on behalf of your main competitor, Victor Yushchenk, and no one can determine whose business this is. Interestingly, if you were to distribute a card in your name, perhaps you would like to thank Major Melnick for keeping your conversations with the subordinates for history, whether you would have found the author or not. So you have to choose the muscle by the Supreme Council, and they're going to stop depending on one person. I won major districts, but I understand that Ukraine needs a proportional system. The nation’s chosen political power must appear and take responsibility for the nation’s destiny. And today, because of your unscrupulousness, Ukraine is governed by esdeks, who barely even jumped into parliament and then bought up the sales majors. The Constitution needs some further clarifications and changes that the opposition declared before last year’s autumn’s protests. Then out of fear, you, Mr. President, have fully supported our proposals. However, in winter, when you defied the fear of numerous rallies, you have completely distorted constitutional changes and thus confirmed that you have a multimillion-dollar nation as a mindless and headless family, you still want to single out the governors, the muscle, you want to appoint your supporters through a decorative fake election to the payroom of the upper chamber, and you want to make the lower room “chamber 6”. What is the rape of the very essence of the Constitution? Neither Russian kings nor Communist leaders had such powers. You don't have enough! Everyone's in your way! When he was Prime Minister, the president interfered. Becoming president is an obstacle to Parliament. Parliament has been built up, and it remains to be said that you are being hindered by the Ukrainian people. Here's an example from my district. A session of the Paradise was held in the Yavoris region. After considering your initiatives, the deputies unanimously voted to return only after the presidential elections and changes to the Constitution should only be made by the Supreme Council. I've been to this session. I've seen the faces of rural teachers, doctors, farmers who have overcome fear, and in their eyes, human dignity has come to light. A few days later, your circuit, district, and Kiev chasers drove through the villages. They were blackmailed and intimidated, threatened with unemployment. Even Pope Hapon, who will call, has been sought to redeem sin in front of Kuchma. On a clean Thursday, when the entire Christian world lives on Easter’s foregleam, your servants gathered the people for an extraordinary session to shame themselves. It didn't work, Mr. President! During the election, I did not buy any vote in my district, but I won 70,000 votes and I am proud of these people. They were neither bought by money thieves nor by the esdeks who rule the state and you. Thus, the decision on the inadmissibility of your initiatives in the Jaborov region remained valid. And so it would be all over Ukraine if people weren't afraid of your cruelty of vindictive power. That's what you're counting on. The sacred right to change the existing Constitution must be earned by the self - sacrificing service of the people. Such a right is vested only in the authority that is at the top of the nation’s trust. I know the servants in your teeth are going to bring you fake "goody" protocols, and even though the people's trust in the President has gone bad, and your name is causing a national allergy, the environment will push you into a referendum. You won't have the will to stop. Then I propose to bring to the bulletin a lifeline for Ukraine the question "Do you trust President Kuchma?".. Vladimir Yavorowski, writer and national deputy
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u200	Vladimir Cherniak, please. Get ready for Odysnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, I would like to address the issue of the need to improve the efficiency of parliamentary hearings. As a rule, their consequences are extremely ineffective or virtually absent. We spend a lot of time, we collect experts, we discuss this issue comprehensively, we usually make declarative decisions that are not being implemented. Moreover, we rarely make any decisions about parliamentary hearings at all. Why were we meeting here, discussing the issues in a comprehensive way, and even the paper effects are not going to work. Fresh examples. Yesterday the Supreme Council did not vote in favour of the Recommendations on Parliamentary Hearings on Privatisation. You know that privatization in Ukraine is ineffective, scandalous, in many ways criminal, created by the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatization, I am a member of this commission, we held hearings, prepared recommendations, and yesterday the Supreme Council did not vote in favour of these recommendations. Another example. There was a hearing about the functioning of the Ukrainian language in Ukraine. Yesterday, the Supreme Council did not vote in favour of the draft decree on the Recommendations on the Development of Ukrainian Language. The Ukrainian language found itself in a terrible state, and this is not an exaggeration. As a witness of these historical events, I claim that the situation with Ukrainian in 2003 is worse than in 1989, 1990, 1991. It's not just progress, it's regression. There's no progress, there's a retreat. There is a comprehensive restriction on the functioning of Ukrainian as a national language, destroying Ukrainian identity in all its forms. And the Supreme Council doesn't take a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u202	One minute, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, we'll wait for you to lead the meeting with Yuri Anatolyovich. Let us respect our colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u203	I'm not offended, they're dealing with an important issue. The Supreme Council did not adopt a draft decision on the recommendations, and I stress that recommendations were made, particularly to release more Cobzar in circulation, to distribute it in order to promote Ukrainian language. At the same time, the Supreme Council ratified the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minorities yesterday. The same MPs who did not vote in favour of the Ukrainian language voted in favour of minority languages. I personally have nothing against the language of minorities, I have nothing to do with the development of these languages. It's normal, it's civilized. But why follow the Ukrainian language in this way? Can this Parliament then be considered a Ukrainian Parliament if it does not support the development of the Ukrainian language? And finally, the last. Again, acceptance of this charter is declarative. In fact, Ukraine has committed itself to supporting 13 languages at almost the level of constitutional obligations that speak Ukrainian as a national language. Such possibilities are neither available nor available to the State. It is clear that such a decision will not be implemented and we will again be monitored by the European Union, the Council of Europe, and again we will have a bad image. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u204	Thank you. Mikola Odynik. Istvan Geidosh will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u205	Mikola Odanik, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Winnitzkin. Honorable deputies, distinguished people of Ukraine, good day to you, good health to you all! Today I want to draw your attention again to the village. You all probably know my attitude towards reforming the agricultural complex that had to be completed by Laugh Day. Now the villagers are laughing because there are no more tears to cry. Young people and old people especially laugh. Of the 184 houses of culture that have been working in my district recently, 64 are completely broken down, 82 are broken down and need capital repairs, and the young are left behind? It's left to laugh. Laugh at us, our parents, who have managed for a very short period of time to drown the work of grandparents left alone today with their own pies of land, weeds, and wheat in the form of a cremated cow or a jug pit. That's the same picture with hospitals. Of the 78 hospitals left, there are 17. And the elderly and the weak have nothing left to laugh about. By the time you get to the hospital, you laugh so much that you don’t want to live. One sick woman said that she had only to wrap herself up in the sheets and quietly get to the cemetery because there was no means of treatment and getting to the hospital. Yes, when you drive around the county, you want to dissipate yourself to suppress the crying pain. Of course, to call them villages makes no sense or sense, because we all understand perfectly that this is the situation in almost every other village. And you know, perhaps the scariest and most painful thing is that people have given up. They were disappointed that something could be changed. But I am confident that the changes will come. This is no longer the way to live, it's the humiliation, the humiliation of ourselves, the humiliation of the nation. So today I am addressing the President, the government, the deputies: we are not going to search for the ruins and to bring the village to moral and material poverty. We know the guilty. On the contrary, let's unite around the idea of rebuilding the village, and show the whole world that we're a proud nation, that we can work, that we can live human lives. Let's rebuild the village, restore Ukraine, and every man with pride, regardless of age, can say, "I live in Ukraine." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u206	Istvan Haydash, faction of the Democratic Party of Ukraine united.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u207	Istwan Hydos, 72nd constituency, faction of SDPU. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! Working in close cooperation with the local self-government authorities of the five districts of the Carpathians of the 72th constituency I represent, I will note that in the process of applying the Ukrainian Budget Code, they have encountered a number of difficulties, particularly because of the inadequacy of income and expenditure between budgets of different levels and the sharing of income and expenditure on those that are taken into account in determining the amount of inter-budget transfers and those that are not included. Thus, incomes that are not included in the definition of transfers are virtually not. While expenditure that is not included in their determination is almost everyone has to be financed from the district budget, it is also out-of-school education, the media, land reform expenditure and other public or district level programmes. So all of these expenses have to be planned in the district budget if there's no income. The change in the use of funds from the local general budget fund is also relevant. The reasons for the remainder may be different. This may include counting the receipts on the last day of the year, when it is no longer possible to use them for the purpose and unutilized costs of expenses due to the non-formulation of all necessary documents, acts of work, tendering, lack of necessary goods and a number of other factors. Given the inadequacy of planning for the next year, such expenses are rational. In the new year, it will rightly target these expenses, the remaining costs for the beginning of the year, and the remainder can also be spent, which is not budgeted, but which are needed. Before the remaining funds are channelled, they can be used to cover temporary cash breaks. The submission of the remainder at the beginning of the year under the Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine is carried out by a decision of the relevant council. This rule of law on local self - government in Ukraine must be provided for in the Code of Budgets. Even if expenses are to be incurred through treasury services, the remaining funds of the local budgets should remain left over from the local budgets to be recorded in the Budget Code. Problems arise in the process of use and special costs, unfortunately. Local governments are not in a position to make changes in their direction, which would allow them, if necessary, to focus on priority needs, including the construction of socio-cultural objects, gasification, and so on. To date, the Budget Committee has set up a working group to prepare changes to the Budget Code, which will form the basis of a bill to amend it. In view of the importance and relevance of these issues today and the need for changes, I invite the people’s deputies to be actively involved in this work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u208	According to the letters of our colleagues Paulowski and Timoshenko, I give the word Zubov. Instead of Pavlovsky and instead of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u209	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, respected radio listeners. I mean, I've been asked a lot lately at election meetings why I'm a doctor, a professor in the ranks of the opposition. It is easier not to fight the regime politically, but rather to cooperate with them by getting enough “fat” from its bar table, as many sitting in this room regrettably do. In such cases, I answer that the opposition has made a truly functioning regime that has turned, in just a decade, Ukraine, the most beautiful country in the world, into a destructive and looted country. I have become a convinced opposition because I want to live in a country where man will be of the highest social value, where the people will not be an impersonal gray mass for power, but the object of his constant care. Finally, I want to live in a country where all our children would have only a truly bright, normal future. I became an opposition because I wanted to live in a country whose president I would be proud of rather than openly despised. In general, belonging to the opposition, respected by the people's deputies, is not a dangerous social evil, but rather a dangerous social evil. Since there is a high level of opposition in today's civilized world, it is an indicator of the level of development of the country and, on the other hand, of the particular concern of democratic States, as the entire civilized world is well aware that only opposition parties are able to control the current power as effectively as possible, excluding the possibility of any abuse on its part. That is why, I stress, the activities of the opposition forces in today's democratic world are financed, stressed, funded by the State budget and actively stimulated. What do we have in Ukraine? This morning the newspaper Silski Visti published an article called "Standing Opposition - Get Out of Work!".. I was told about the fate of village physician Sergey Klimenko, deputy of the Kremenchug Reisevet, chief doctor of the Omelni district hospital, in which he did a great deal for his fellow citizens and soon turned his hospital into one of the best in the area. And all was well with him: and his authority praised him, but only until he invited his countrymen to join the action "Arise, Ukraine!".. Immediately thereafter, he was fired and removed from his job. This is a good article, respected people's deputies, because this is happening throughout the country instead of supporting understanding and respect for political differences, disintegration, contempt, terrorism. This morning, we discussed developments related to the beating up of a group of members of the People's Deputies, Block Yulia Timoshenko, by officials of the Lukyanov Detention Facility in Kiev. I don't want to go into the details of this incident right now. But let's ask ourselves, "If this power affords physical violence against the people's deputies, how will this power behave towards a person who is ordinary to a man who has no MP's integrity?" Therefore, we should not be surprised by the killing figures that show that every year 15,000 of our compatriots end their lives by suicide, and 250,000, let us think about those figures, 250,000, one quarter of a million Ukrainian citizens attempt suicide. I am fully responsible for these horrifying figures on the conscience of the current regime. And the last. While in the Lukyanovo Detention Facility near Julia Vladimirovna Timoshenko, I admired, on the one hand, the courage of this fragile woman and, on the other hand, the lowliness and poverty of those who have been in constant and cold-blooded war with her for several years.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u210	One minute, excuse me. Please calm Andrew School down there. Andrew School, I'm asking you to calm down and behave yourself. I'm asking you, you're a normal, hard-working man. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u211	Let's think about it, distinguished people's deputies. On 13 May, the Kiev Court of Appeal, in the name of Ukraine, found all charges against Yulia Timoshenko unfounded and decided to release all accused immediately. The Attorney-General's Office immediately initiates a new criminal case and immediately re-arrests those who should be released immediately upon a court decision. It is not clear that this new criminal case is an act of political terror against the opposition leader. If this case breaks down too, a new one will be set in motion. And that's how it's going to go to infinity, because the man in charge at Banks briefly said, "Fass!".. And this is the man who named the independent judges who act by law for the sake of the law, characterizing them, and said, "These judges are the whores!".. I apologize to the radio audience for the quote that each of us can easily read in the film of Nikolai Melnichenko. And the last. The existence of opposition in Ukraine, respected people's deputies, is a fact. I think that the current power needs to be clear to itself that it is civilized to deal with it. Instead of terror, dialogue. Instead of aggression, respect and understanding. Otherwise, the opposition will have to take adequate measures, which we do not want. I want all those who depend on this issue to listen carefully to what has been said and to make an adequate decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u212	Yes, the Silent Paul. None. Oh, they've already spoken for him. Victor Terrence. Olga Hinzburg to prepare, please. I'm asking you, half a ton quieter. Give us a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u213	Victor Terrence, timoshenko's Julia faction. Today, I was at a meeting of the Kyiv Court of Appeal to discuss the case of participants in the anti-presidential demonstration on March 9, 2001. Dear people! What does this look like? In a huge cage of 12 young boys. With them in this cage is the State Flag of Ukraine, which they keep in prison. And it's tragically and deeply symbolic, because they're judging Ukraine on a large scale. There, by grace, the flower of the nation, its youth and hope, because the prisoners are students, they're young poets, they're workers, they're pure gold of the nation, they're children, they're children like these children who were cut off for Ukraine by the Kruts. These are Ukrainian patriots! They're being judged. They are profoundly educated, quoting holy writings, Shewchenka, philosophers. They read poems and they're behind bars. But behind the bars are those who ordered the murder of Georgia Gongadze, who robbed millions of people on the streets, who took Ukraine, who led to the terrible poverty of the Ukrainian people. We, the deputy factions of Julia Timoshenko, will do our utmost to have the law and justice in place in Ukraine. And today, when Deputy Suhi of the faction of the Social Democratic Party in this room said that some MPs are having fun when they're driving through S.I.S., I want to say that it's terrible cynicism. [[united]] It's fun when my colleagues are breaking our ribs in and out of jail, they're on a militia team, they're coming at us in cars, when it's only for this call that my colleagues were brutally beaten: Julia Timoshenko, Mikhail Pavlovsky, Valentina Zubov, Teren, Mikhail Wolinz, and not just them, and no one answered for it. But here's the fun in the bush: there are 600,000 cancer patients in the country, and last year only 13 million were spent on cancer treatment, and 250 million were spent on the prosecutor's office. And that is why Ukraine is dying of poverty and disease. And so, as for Ukraine today, Alexander Longzhenko wrote: "We have enough prosecutors for all of us, not enough teachers, technicians, engineers, agronomists, and prosecutors and investigators enough. All goals and healthful, like bears, and experienced in their cold profession." On May 15, the deadline for the so - called discussion of the political reforms of Kuchma, the intention of which is to continue the presidential mandate of the family and the irreplaceable. But if there is any more Kuchma, Shevchenk's words will arise: "He will perish, Ukraine will perish, there will be no trace on the earth." But there will be no trace of the catacombs of Ukraine, and Ukraine will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u214	Olga Hinsburg. Get ready for Kirilchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u215	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the distinguished Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the distinguished voters! I went out to this rostrum, and my voters came to me, personally at a reception with the Sixth Svema Shareholders, and I promised them to read this letter. But before that, I want to say. Many of the issues raised in the Supreme Council Hall are if such, non-global, as it were, not all represent the interests of the whole state. There's going to be a question somewhere, and that group of deputies are fighting for it. There'll be another issue somewhere, a group of MPs fighting. Why I'm talking about it. How should you do that? What should we do? Because we have the rule of the state, it is. There's a lot of problems in the people, there's a lot of problems in the state, there's problems in the labour groups. So write this graph -- these problems are in the state: (1) non-payment of wages; (2) failure to execute court decisions. What we're talking about today, someone's being held at the station, someone's getting nervous about it. And someone else has a lot of pain problems, and they don't have deputies in the hall, they don't come here, and no one will ever mention them. So they write like that, this is the question right here, and this is the one that's to blame, and this is to be done. And they bring these questions to the Supreme Council by the Cabinet of Ministers. By thus uniting us together to carry them out. That's what I understand. Maybe someone else does. And I understand that. But I promised to read this letter. And your attention. From the Space Share Company, it's a state-owned enterprise. This was a correspondence with the President of Ukraine, Prime Minister Janukovic. But the answers are that they have no solution. "We're addressing you on behalf of the Svema Joint Stock Company task force with the hope of your help. Our business is unique and unique in its kind, it is organized on the basis of the Svema Svema, a company that has been producing film since 1931. Over the years, the nation's industrialization policy has turned the Universe into a flag of domestic film production. In the 1980s, when more than 300 appointments were released, 36 countries were exported. At present, the production volume of goods has dropped 43 times, with the number of workers dropping 4.5 times. Most of the time today, everything is, first of all, a state-owned enterprise, because 91.6 percent of the state's share of the foundation. In addition, "Everything" is listed on a list of enterprises of strategic importance to the state. On the one hand, we need a state, our products have demand, but on the other hand, the state does not provide protection and support to a domestic producer. Don't we understand what this is about? [[I'm a major reader.]] It's very unfortunate that this is happening in the context of the revival of the film industry in Russia, where, with the support of the state of Tasma, it is reborn and produces production, although our business has always had great potential and production of higher quality. The situation today is critical. The State Property Fund cannot grant permission for the reconstruction of the Universe without the responsible agreement of the Cabinet of Ministers. The prolonged delay in granting the permit leads to further downturns in the company, exacerbating the state of liquidation. The main thing to say is, I'm finishing off the debt from the wages that today is a state-owned enterprise of 3 million. A bracelet that provokes people to action. The company is in trouble as a result of the lack of funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u216	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u217	I'm sorry. It does not provide for raw materials and for the payment of energy resources. In view of the above, Vladimir Mikhailovich, half-minutes, taking into account the above, please give open stock company Svema, a company of national strategic importance, assistance to enable the enterprise to rise, get out of a difficult position and pay the salaries of its employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u218	Eugene Kirilchuk, please. Get ready, Weakyka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u219	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished voters! Yulia Tymoshenko, Fatherland Party, Volin. Kirilchuk. Yesterday the Supreme Council, in its first reading, approved changes to the budget law. You remember, and you must have heard, a month ago, when Julia Timoshenko's bloc, a group of deputies, along with deputies and other factions, proposed to the Supreme Council, the budgetary committee, the government's proposal for a given situation on a salary basis in Ukraine. There were 7.2 billion extras, and it was said where to get them to solve the main issue of Ukraine, that 60 percent of the living minimum is 237 dollars. Where to raise funds to solve the problem was indicated. Yesterday, however, the government succeeded in generating 230 votes without opposition and took responsibility to break the payroll law in Ukraine. That is, what everyone was supposed to pay 180 and no less in Ukraine and 237 in the second half and no less. In fact, only 600 million are foreseen for salary in the proposed bill, and the rest are distributed on other faces, including the prevention of future elections, and the money is hidden. I'll only give you one fact. Kuchma-first, when he was president of the previous summons, asked for the maintenance of his plumage, which is about 27 to 30 million. This year he asked for 300 million. The Supreme Council voted 290 million. He was illegally added 20 million, and now he has 333 million. That's where the hidden money is. Today, all of Ukraine is thinking about how to finish spring work. All those involved in the land are trying to do something, all the local authorities are doing nothing but collecting protocols for two months in order to execute orders at the national Odbryams, they won't, because 90 percent of people today demand elections, presidential reelections, early elections, early retirements, because nothing will change from political reform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u220	Sergei Slabenko, please. John Stojko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u221	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable voters, I would like to dedicate my speech to a very important event that took place on March 6, 2003, and was then printed, to the President of Ukraine's decree to discuss constitutional reform. I understand that this decree provided for a broad discussion, the involvement of experts in the field of jurisprudence, political science, and probably the deputy corps. I had hoped that this would not happen, for the media often began to publicize the performances of the people’s deputies. As in Volina, this process took place. Local television companies were supposed to hold political debates on the political reform of pros and cons. There was an advertising campaign and press releases, that is, newspapers, and such debates took place. For example, National Deputy Bondar, Zagreb, met with representatives of the government, Rodicz, and the head of the City Council, Anton Krivitsky. Similarly, I was invited to do the same. On May 5, this year, I was unable to speak. Why couldn't I speak? When I turned to the State Department, I was informed that there was no first deputy head of the State, he was missing somewhere. I'm leaving my cell phone, I'm leaving all my phone calls, I'm leaving my assistants, and I'm asking you, "Call me, tell me why you don't." I couldn't get this information, the debate didn't happen, my speech. On May 6th, at 8 am, 45 minutes, I called Vladimir Panchishina directly, the first deputy of the head of the government, asking if you were ready to meet directly on the air and discuss political reform, the more the question was: to hold a referendum, like adopting changes to the Constitution by making a referendum of direct action. Accordingly, this question was of great concern to many. I was promised such debates would take place. May 12th, I start calling again, I'm leaving my phones back in the administration with a request, please tell me if you're going to be on the air or not? In no way did anyone respond to that question. That is why I believe that this is how the reform was discussed when everyone was given the opportunity to communicate and express themselves. I understand that it's probably the qualifications of people that make it impossible for her to have a public discussion and a debate with the deputies right now. And the last. I would like to say that we should pay attention to the quality of the discussion and listen to this question to us MPs. I mean, as discussed in this political reform, was it possible for everyone to express themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u222	Ivan Stojko, get ready for Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u223	John Stoyko, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. I was forced to go to the rostrum today by the situation surrounding the fleet in Sevastopol. It's been ten years since Russia leased military bases in Crimea, but somehow there's no income line for the Black Sea fleet in the profit line of the government budget. How did Russia divide the fleet? All the battleships remained with her, and only one of the two submarine divisions in Ukraine was passed on to her, but it was insecure. Russia also has strategically the most important coves under its control, and it's Sevastopol, Southern and Quarantine. But even such a purely pro-Russian agreement on the division of the fleet is not being implemented. The vast number of objects left behind by the Black Sea fleet of Russia is not used for direct purposes, but seems to be used in a subordinating business structure, usually Russian, which is not provided for by any treaty. Moreover, Russia is using our territories to train foreign military professionals to make a lot of profits. To date, many objects have not been handed over to the Ukrainian side in spite of signed agreements. And finally, most of all. To date, no real estate and land survey has been carried out to rent the Black Sea fleet and a legal lease of Russian objects, land plots, and buoys transferred to their fleet. Black Marine patrols are walking around Sevastopol with guns, using the illegal right to detain Ukrainian military personnel, which is a nonsensus in our state. Above every building of the Black Sea fleet, the Russian flag was erected, and at the gates of some military units there was even a plaque marked "Russian Federation Territory". The Black Sea fleet of Russia is not controlled today by Ukraine, it is not working in the legal field. It is surrounded by a mahogany of anti - Ukrainian sentiments. This was repeatedly heard from Russian politicians such as Luzkov, Zatulin, or Girinowski. And all the anti-government events didn't get any official evaluation of Kiev. Today’s Ukrainian authorities are actively promoting the offensive actions of the Russians. In recent months alone, Russia has been given 20 acres [20 ha] of Black Sea coast, and Maidan Nahimov has been allowed to build a business center for Moscow’s government, over which another tricolour will be lifted. In December 2002, the Luzkov ambassadors installed a capsule to address black seamen and residents of the city, to be opened and read in 2002, when the Russian fleet was to leave Ukraine. The total number of Russian sailors today exceeds twice our garrison. It is not clear why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine lists the service in the Russian Armed Forces in Ukraine as a prize for obtaining Ukrainian citizenship. Thus, when the Russian officers were released to the reserve, they automatically received a Ukrainian passport and went to work in the national Ukrainian structures again to demolish them. According to the latest census, today there are 18,000 non-Ukrainian citizens in Sevastopol, 5 percent of the city’s population. And do not the rules apply to them in the same way as those applied in Moscow to foreigners, particularly Ukrainians? It is also not clear why entire housing is being built for the citizens of Russia. And it's done without forming a watershed. At the same time, the Sevastopol authorities refused to even rename one of the city’s venues as the site of the Gehtman Sagaidakny. Ten years ago, this is a similar developmental perspective. would be a ghost, and today it becomes a dangerous reality. I'm sure we have to do everything we can today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u224	Thank you. Anatoly Orzhachowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u225	Please consider my statement an official appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Security Service and the Attorney General's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u226	Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u227	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues, voters! I will not talk today about the productive, social and political situation in Ukraine. Obviously, there's been a complete collapse. This is how we want to remember Soviet times when they built, developed, and not destroyed. My talk today will be about problems in the Black Sea region, particularly in the Skadovian and Calancean regions of the Hersonian region of environmental protection. The town of Skadowski, the village of Lazurne, the village of Horlica, is well - known for its port territory and for its resorts on the Black Sea. On the coast of the Skadovian district, there are about 80 health facilities, and a considerable number of facilities are located in the villages of Horla, Dzdolno, Primorski Kalanchik district. Starting in 2000, in the resort area, the village of Lazurne has developed and continues to develop a very dangerous situation with the destruction of the coastal coastline. At present, the beaches are few miles away, washed and destroyed by the fences of health facilities, and the water approaches the buildings. More than 10 health - care facilities have been run out of beaches at all, while others do not meet the standards and requirements. The beach lane is 5-7 meters. At the same time, there was a blurry ray between the islands. and the mainland that led to the degradation of the western part of the Gulf of Jerusalem, the tiring of fish, the stagnation of water, and so forth. Despite security measures at the level of the area, the area of artificial flow restoration in the past 2000-2002 continues to be washed away by the sea. Leadership. The leaders of the region had to go to the Odessacom project, which at the time was developing a project to protect the north coast of the Black Sea, the 3rd districts of Ukraine: Odessa, Mikolai and Herson. According to estimates by the Institute for the Coastal Coastal Coast of the village of Lazurne, tens of millions of bracelets are needed, which are not available in the village or in the area. The situation is not better, nor is Horla in the area of recreation. It is on a peninsula washed by the waters of the Black Sea. For a long time, Horla’s problem was only a problem of local executive and self - control. At the last session of the Herson District Council, there was a need for urgent intervention in solving the problems of the village. What worries me most is that in this village, near the coast of the coastal zone, there is a rural cemetery, and every year, under the influence of the waves, the distance between it and the coast is shrinking, which in the future can lead to unforeseeable sanitary and epidemiological effects. It is also dangerous that in the event of a failure to take action through an existing area, it will not be possible to enter a populated area and solve the problems that are needed. The safety and reliability of the network’s electrical connections and the energy connections that are located in the coastal area are under threat. On this point, I would like to ask Prime Minister Vladimir Mikhailovich to form a parliamentary request with the hope that the government will pay attention to the problems raised and do everything possible to ensure that the threat to the security of the border, sanitation and the development of tourism and rest in Hersonland is reversed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u228	Thank you. Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u229	The school of Andrews, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Ukrainian National Assembly. Before I express the topic of the speech, I would like to say two words about the situation that is constantly being recorded by the National MPs in the various speeches. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you see, there must be some kind of mutual respect. Because the deputy who's speaking here at the Miscellaneous doesn't speak any of his own questions. And in general, from this rostrum, with very rare exclusions, everyone speaks out of general issues. And I'm convinced that 99 percent of the MPs, they're not about settling personal interests, they're about settling public interests. So you have to, I think, write some kind of more careful writing program in different ways, because I don't think that the situations that are complex are the ones that have the right to a place in the Supreme Council. Because it is not up to an official to decide when to speak to a national deputy. Anyway, I'm thinking whether it's the law or some other thing, like drawing some sort of or something, writing in the hall. I don't know, it's just not a bad situation that's been going on lately, I'd like to stop at it. But I'm about to move on to the topic of direct speaking. You know, right now, at this time, there's a court hearing in the Court of Appeal of Kiev. Boys who are accused of mass riots on March 9, 2001 are on trial. The court has been in session for a year and a half, and the appeal body has to respond to a permanent complaint written by virtually all the trial participants and their lawyers. But this is the legal side of the matter. Political prisoners are being tried, people are being judged for having political convictions, for having gone out into the street with a view to expressing them perfectly legally, having every reason to do so. All the other events that have occurred need a separate study, a separate study. But the fact that there was no criminal offence was already proved even in court, in the first instance in the district court. How did this happen? It's very simple. The judge dismissed all possible and impossible allegations against the boys. But nevertheless, he said, because it's political, so I'm not giving the entire term that the prosecutor demanded, I'm giving it only half. Those who were required to receive five, to whom eight, are given four, and so on. So we're dealing with political squabbles right now. Those who do not like are put in prison, punished, punished, and punished. And I believe and believe that the time will come when everyone, I emphasize, will be held accountable. Because political crimes do not have an expiration date. Political crimes, they will be tried twice -- and by human judgment, and by the judgment of history, I believe that they will also be judged by God's judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u230	Thank you. The last performance is Gurov Valentin. Huh? So let's count it, now let's count it. All right, all right, we got a deal. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u231	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished radio listeners! Vadim Gurov, Krivbass. I've had a friend like this -- the head of the CD, it's a very serious business, the hottest, Sazod Yury Anatolyevich, who always said when it was hard: you know, he says, "Vadim Nikolayevich, we're not in trouble, we're in trouble, we're in trouble." I used to think, what do you mean, scary words? And in principle, when he dealt with our legislative and executive parts, he was probably right. In general, the people are always right. You'll see, there's 52 decrees, you'll get back, the budget law, where you have to give some of the proceeds, like dividends, to the state, and distribute the state. I think it's okay. We had a billion at first, and then we agreed to 400 million. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, was it? Here. And now we wait, but we have to do it. And there are regulations that can completely break any law, that we don't know what that law was. And when did the law come out? It's only 22 April. And now I'm saying "Criminal" is a state-owned 100 percent enterprise, now pay the 2002 dividend, think about it, MPs, pay for the first quarter, right? And the amounts aren't funny. And that's 160 million. In one month. It is said that normal people understand that if there was a profit, it was already spent in 2002 and in the first quarter. Right before the dilemma of the fifty-four-thousandth-thousandth squad of the Crimsons. What can we do? A flowering enterprise of 100 per cent, I stress, the only state out of 14 combinations, received 500 million profits last year, received 300 million in this neighborhood, and they all gave away. I therefore believe that a sub-legal act must go on time and that the references to “Criminals” should be half a million. Half a billion dollars per VAT. Therefore, the main question is now: it must be adjusted and done in the same way as others. In principle, I think that the Ministry and Cabinet of Ministers should consider the work of all metallurgical enterprises. I want to tell you that half have a negative balance, and all work in the same conditions. If nobody cares, because it's privatized because it's private, our 52nd article will never be filled. That is why both the Minister and the Cabinet of Ministers must address this issue without delay, and then the question raised by the deputies will be met. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u232	Mikhailo Melniczuk, please. Turn on the microphone of the people's MP Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u233	Thank you. Just tell me, Vladimir Mikhailovich, a minute or a half or three?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u234	Three.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u235	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank those national deputies who have stayed in this room for about a dozen years. And I'd like to talk to the villagers. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region I'm talking to everyone who works in the village: the honourable peasants, since the Supreme Council has assigned you to a temporary commission of inquiry to work out the situation of grain and bread, I would like you all who have suffered from leaders who have forced you to attribute a gross collection of grain, or farmers who have grown 150 to 100 cents of wheat from a hectare, to realize that we will never ascribe to our own people. Please, if there are such facts, force the executive or the representative authority, please, on our behalf, or the temporary investigators of the Commission of Melniczuk, Gabrieluk, please send them to the Supreme Council. The situation is as if there are grains in the state and there is a guarantee in the reserve that there is, but those working in the Ukrainian grain market today, who have processing enterprises, who bake bread, cannot buy grain in the internal market today. I've been talking to Uksernoprom's employees, they have powerful processing capabilities, bread factories, but today in the internal market they can't buy grain in Ukraine, that's what the Socialist Party of Ukraine has repeatedly warned about in its applications. And I want to say that in this way, by no means are we going to feed our own people. In addition to the adjectives, a peasant was robbed, who grew bread in difficult times and labors last year, because by means of a survey in the country where we were talking about collecting about 40 million tons of grain, there was no such grain. I repeat, it wasn't, it was an adjectives personally in rural farms that were made under the authority of the local authorities. I'd like to give a few examples of this, but just because I've been given a word just because I can't make a statement for three Fridays, I'd like to say the following. Yesterday we discussed the bill on the system. The Melniczuk bill, which was submitted for consideration, he didn't have support in the support room, but I'm addressing everyone who works in the judicial system, this bill will be taken into account on rereading and my proposals will be taken into account by the relevant committee. Thank you. And good-bye, everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-16-m0.u236	I thank you for your work, Your Honor, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. The plenary session will begin at 10 a.m. on May 20.
