ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:49]] A total of 413 national deputies were registered. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague Peter Stepanovitch Cibenka. Let us welcome him and wish him every success. [[Applause]] Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with the Rules today, are taking decisions by the Supreme Council. There's a schedule on your hands. A draft decision on the election of Ukrainian national deputy Nestor Schufrich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters is being announced. Please, Valentin Grigorovitch Matviev, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u2	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, next September 10th of last year, the committee reviewed the statement made by national deputy Shufric about his membership with the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs. It was decided to support the Supreme Council's draft decision to elect him as a member of this committee. But when the vote was taken, the ruling did not get enough votes. The committee shall make a draft decision and request that it be examined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting you to the vote. All right, everybody, let's go. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the election of the People's Deputy Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues". This is document number 2180. Please vote. [[10:04:00]] For 312 Decision taken. A draft decree on the election of Ukrainian national deputy Borzov Valerija Pilipovich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on youth policy, physical culture, sport and tourism is under consideration. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u4	A statement by the national deputy Borzov and a corresponding draft decision to elect him as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on youth policy, physical culture, sports and tourism were considered at the meeting of the Rules Committee yesterday. The committee supported the statement made by the national MP, Borzov, and proposes to make a decision to elect him as a member of the committee mentioned above.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the Supreme's draft ruling, please cancel the vote. Joseph of Viennese.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u6	Wynski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I have a question for the committee head. Our faction is determined politically by these ballots. We agreed that there should be a quota for each faction on the committee. So no matter whether we belong to a member of the faction to which we vote in favour, because we believe that this position should be clearly defined not only by our faction, but by all the factions of the Supreme Council. In this case, is there a Stock Exchange in the quota of the relevant political structure or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u7	Thank you. I answer that question. The committee discussed the problem in great detail yesterday in connection with the fact that three representatives of the SDPI faction, i.e. youth policy, physical education and sports, are already working. The fractional quantity is 1.8. This is going to be the fourth representative of this faction in the committee. But we came out, fellow believers, from the fact that Borzov Valerius Philipovich was known not only in our country but also in the world as an athlete, a member of the International Olympic Committee. And we decided to make such a decision to the committee, based solely on this and in agreement with the committee's leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u8	The answer has already been given. Please, Winsky again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u9	Dear Valentin Grigorovich! Wynski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. This means that the regulatory committee itself violated the Rules. How is it that the regulatory committee can make such a proposal? You, as it were, should blaspheme the law, not make political decisions. The way out of this situation is very simple -- let SDPU, who understands the situation as you do, get two men out of there, and Borzov enters. Then we can vote. That's not the way it is, you know?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u10	Thank you. Joseph Vicentiyovich, once again, I repeat that the committee had long discussed the problem and had made such a decision in order of exclusion. Really. We exchanged duchess, we were in favor and we were in favour. Finally, however, the committee made a positive decision regarding the statement made by the national MP Borzov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u11	I put to the vote a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the Ukrainian national deputy Borzov Valerija Pilipovich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on youth policy, physical culture, sport and tourism. This is document 3579, please vote. [[10:08:32]] For 305 Decision taken. A draft decree on the election of Ukraine’s national deputy Chebotarov as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is under consideration. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u12	At its meeting yesterday, the Rules Committee also reviewed the statement made by the national deputy of Chebotar Yulia Sergiyivna regarding her election as a member of the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood. Taking into account that the quota of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine on the Committees is 1.8, and there is no representative of this faction on the Committee today, the Committee has decided to support the statement made by the Chebotarov People's Deputy and to make an appropriate decision to elect it as a member of this Committee for the consideration of the Supreme Council. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u13	I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the National Deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Chebotarov Yulia, Sergijovni, as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Motherhood and Childhood. This is document number 3595. Please vote. [[10:10:17]] For 323 Decision taken. The draft regulation on granting approval for the release of Golovk from office of the State Commission from securities and stock market is announced for consideration. Is there a reporter? Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking Sergey Vasilovich Burjak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! A little help. The Committee on Finance and Banking, at its meeting on 3 June 2003, considered the submission of President Anatolia Terentiyovich of the President of Ukraine to grant exemption from office as a member of the State Commission from securities and stock market. This is according to article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the Securities Market. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the President of Ukraine, Mr. Glaucco Anatolia Terentiyovich, be released from office as a member of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u15	Dear National Deputies! No comments, then I put to the vote the draft decree on granting approval for the President of Ukraine to be released from office as a member of the State Commission from the securities and stock market of Glaucoma Anatoly Terentiyovich. This is 3564. Please vote. [[10:11:55]] For 328 Decision taken. A draft decree on the transfer of parliamentary hearings on "Ukraine-Russian relations, state of the art and prospects" is being announced for consideration. Stanislav Telisforovich Staszewski is there? Please, dear colleagues, we discussed this issue at the Conciliation Council and there were no objections to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! As you know, on February 20th of this year, the Supreme Council decided to hold parliamentary hearings on "Ukraine-Russian relations, state of the art and prospects." It was created on the basis of the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council, an organizational committee and the work progressed and went to completion. But at the last meeting of the organizational committee, members of the organizational committee of almost all factions made proposals that it would be inappropriate to hold almost such a day’s government day and parliamentary hearings. This was informed by our Conciliation Council, and a corresponding commission was given by Ukraine to the Supreme Council of the Professional Committee. Yesterday, the profile committee reviewed its meeting and decided to support the proposal not to spend that day but to postpone the month of October. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u17	Roman Zvaric. Microphone, please, Roman Zvaric, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u18	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would ask you to speak more clearly about the conclusions of the Conciliation Council. Because it was at a meeting of the Conciliation Council authorized by the faction "Our Ukraine" that he made warnings about the transfer of these parliamentary hearings. And we're not going to support that kind of determination. I asked you to speak more correctly, though, what was said on the Conciliation Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u19	Thank you. Victor Terrence, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u20	Victor Terrence, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, what we are doing now, we are doing exactly what is right, so the Supreme Council's decision can only be annulled by the adoption of the next decision. And now we are acting absolutely in the spirit of the Rules. I would just like to remind you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that a decision has been made using the opportunity to remind me, please, that a decree has been taken to hold the government's Day of Trusts. And without overturning this decision, why is the matter buried? I'd like to go back, Vladimir Mikhailovich, not today, but the next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the transfer of parliamentary hearings on the subject of "Ukraine-Russian Relations. The state of the art and the prospects." This is document number 3571. Please vote. [[10:15:29]] For 317 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! Four decisions on appointment of members of the High Qualifying Commission, 3481, 3482, 3535, and 3536, are under consideration. From the committee, please, Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich, First Deputy Head of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u22	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy reviewed four draft decrees regarding the election of members of the High Qualifications Commission. I want to point out that today there are two vacancies in the High Qualifying Commission that are being chosen from the Supreme Council. Accordingly, as you have pointed out, there are four candidates, and you and I need to decide whether or not to vote. The position of the committee with regard to the proposed persons is as follows. The committee decided to recommend the selection of a member of the Higher Qualifications Commission: Shishkina, Boyka, Hare. Regarding the Tooth of Gregory Ivanovich, he unfortunately did not get the required number of votes. Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u23	Please, the Turk Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I have a question for the chairman. The problem is that, according to the law, it is up to the profile committee to put forward candidates for election to the High Qualifying Commission. In view of the fact that the Dentist did not pass the profile committee, why is the decision with its name in the order of the Supreme Council of the day? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u25	Dear colleague! I need to clarify the legislative settlement of this issue in the next. These are draft decrees of the Supreme Council, i.e. these are acts of the Supreme Council. And the application is submitted to the Supreme Council. The committee expresses its point of view, recommending or not recommending, but it is determined directly by the Supreme Council by voting in the session room. Thank you. This was a question that we discussed on the committee, and we studied legislation. Believe me, there's no idealism here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? We agreed that we would conduct four of these candidates' ratings, as we did when we elected members of the National Council for Television and Radio. Please take this into account. Please, Anatoly Frost. Turn on the Microphone, National Deputy Anatoly Frost, Communist faction. Something with a card, I guess. Well, please come to the rostrum. It'll be quicker. Let him do the talking. Please check the system. Please, mate. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u27	Anatoly Frost, 83 constituency, Communist faction. I am addressing the committee head with such a question. First of all, why are we choosing representatives to the High Qualifications Commission of Judges? And the second question. Are there any examples that any of the judges were ordered to do so? Why am I talking about this? Because I've called on the Higher Qualifying Commission on many occasions, let's say, judges in the Priastow region, about the abuses and violations that the judge allows and the reactions to nothing. There are some examples or not, please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u28	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. Dear National Deputies! I inform you that the Supreme Qualifications Commission, according to the Law on the Judiciary, is formed by the assembly of judges, part is chosen by the Supreme Council, the Ministry of Justice. As I have already said, there are two vacancies in the qualification commission today — two in connection with the expiration of the term — such as those elected by the Supreme Council. Today, the Law on the Court of Justice prohibits members of the High Qualifying Commission from being national deputies. There are no other warnings. To exercise the rights that exist in the legislative initiative of the national MPs, such as the national deputies of Tolstoy, as well as other national deputies in the Shishkin and Boyka parts, have made draft regulations on the recommendations of the Supreme Council of the designated members of the Higher Qualifications Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u29	Mikola Vasilovich, the question is, what will be the function of the representatives from us and how they will affect the requests of the national MPs regarding the misconduct of the judges. Do I understand the question correctly? Are there such precedents that they make decisions?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u30	That's the second question. As far as functions are concerned, respectable colleagues. All of our appointments that we have with you regarding the selection of judges on an indefinite basis are carried out solely on the basis of the decision of the Higher Qualifications Committee whether to recommend a judge for election on an indefinite basis or not to recommend. So it's a pretty important body that's directly involved in the application preparation system.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u31	I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u32	As far as other functions and examples are concerned, the impact of a qualified commission is concerned. Under the law, the Higher Qualifications Commission also conducts administrative conducts, including the imposition of withdrawals and recommendations for the release of judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, judges of higher specialized courts, including judges of the Master Court and judges of appeals courts. So this is an influential and important institution of the system of the judiciary of Ukraine. Cases where a senior qualified commission, for example, did not recommend to a judge, take place. And when, at the initiative of the Higher Qualifying Commission, the High Council of Justice, in particular, filed for the dismissal of judges, also took place. Since I have reported on this issue today, I can prepare a special report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I now put to the vote in order to register candidates. We're running a rating vote. I put to the vote the draft decision on the appointment of Shishkin Viktor Ivanovich as a member of the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine, number 3481. [[10:23:16]] For a hundred and
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u34	For -145. I'm betting on a draft decision to appoint Boyka Vitalia Fedorovich as a member of the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine, this is document 3482. [[10:23:49]] For a hundred and
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u35	To - 194. I put to the vote the draft decree on the appointment of Hare Anatolia Pavlovich as a member of the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine, number 3535. [[10:24:22]] For 234
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u36	To -234. The factions, please. I'm betting on the vote on the draft decree number 3536 on the appointment of Teeth Gregory Ivanovich as a member of the Supreme. Why can't it be? I explained to the committee’s head. Why can't it be? I put to the vote the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine number 3536 on the appointment of the Tooth Gregory Ivanovich as a member of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine. [[10:25:22]] For 283 Thus, the distinguished national MPs, by factions, please. Now we're voting two more votes, two candidatures: the Hare and the Tooth. The rabbit is 234, the tooth is 283. Please, with Karmazin's motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u37	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm addressing you because you probably don't remember, and now the reporter told you that he didn't get a single vote on the committee yesterday. And he didn't get it because the committee considered that after 65 years he wanted to continue, losing the authority of the judge, the vote in the Kiev Court of Appeal. And he didn't get it for doing the order all the time, and today you want to put this person to make the filter to the judiciary. What are you doing?Oh, my God! I'm talking to the 283 who voted in favour. If you didn't know, that's one question. Now, after what I said and you'll know, your vote will be a co-crime, a complicity in crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u38	Thank you. I put to the vote the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Hare Anatolia Pavlovich as a member of the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine. This is document number 3535. [[10:27:30.]] For 263 Decision taken. The factions, please. Yes, I'm putting to the vote draft ruling number 3536 on the appointment of Dentist Gregory Ivanovich as a member of the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine. Number 3536 of the document. [[10:28:16]] For 236 Decision taken. Let's say hello. The factions, please. We welcome the Hare Anatolia Pavlovich, as well as the Tooth of Gregory Ivanovich, who is appointed members of the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we wish fruitful work and consideration of the critical comments expressed by the national deputies in the process of discussion. Thank you. A draft law on the approval of the President of Ukraine's decision to deploy a peacekeeping contingent for Ukraine's participation in an international peacekeeping operation in the Republic is under consideration. Yeah, I am. It's being announced. It's being announced. I want to do it again. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on approval of the decision of the President of Ukraine is under review. One moment, give me your word! A draft law on the approval of the President of Ukraine's decision to deploy a peacekeeping contingent for Ukraine's participation in an international peacekeeping operation in the Republic of Iraq is under consideration. In accordance with the Rules, honourable colleagues, documents determined by the President for further consideration and how urgent are automatically incorporated into the agenda. Therefore, we do not need a vote to be included in the agenda. Such an arrangement is proposed. For the report, up to 10 minutes, the answers to the questions, up to five minutes, the report, respectively. One minute, distinguished national MPs, five minutes to report, five minutes to question, and 20 minutes to discuss, or 45 minutes. Dear National Deputies! If there are other proposals, let's vote, no problem. Please, Stepan Cloud. We don't give from the faction, we give from the record.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u39	Cloud, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! This is an extremely important question, and 45 minutes is clearly not enough. We need to ask more questions and more questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u40	How much do you suggest, Stepan Ilkovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u41	Not less than an hour, at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u42	For an hour, we're going to vote, no questions asked. Please, Joseph of Winsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u43	Wynski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, an extremely important political issue. Not by chance yesterday the President had most of the two hours to make it clear. I suggest that society understand what we are doing so that we can understand what we are doing and have a broad discussion. I mean, I'm offering to talk about taking an hour. And to consider the question, as you said, the report is one, the report is another, the question, and then the time for discussion. And let's give each faction a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u44	Okay. Please, what other suggestions regarding the Rules are there? No, I'm putting it in order of arrival. Please, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u45	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, first of all, I would like to inform you and the deputies that there are many people in the area before the Supreme Council with slogans against the Kuchmew adventure in Iraq, against the repetition of Afghanistan, and therefore I would like to include a broadcast of this issue in the area. Secondly, I also support the proposal for an hourly discussion, because first after the Afghan adventure, Ukraine joins the war by sending its occupying contingent. It's a very important question. We need to discuss this for at least an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, there are no objections to broadcasting in the area? None. Then I'm giving orders to include a broadcast into the area. I'm in a position to put the motions to a vote. Stepan Ilkovich's proposal to take an hour to consider the matter. [[10:32:57]] For-157. The decision is not taken. I will now make the second proposal that Joseph of Winsky had. So we can talk for an hour, right? So 10 to the report, 5 to the answer, 10 to the report, and the answer to the question. We've got an hour and a half. I am voting on the proposal of the national deputy of Winsky to take an hour and 20 minutes to consider the matter. [[10:33:42]] For-161 The decision is not taken. The factions. Let's move on to the question. The Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk, has the floor for the report. Please, Eugene Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u47	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honourable Presidency, the Honourable National Deputies. The bill on the approval of the decision of the President of Ukraine, on the deployment of a peacekeeping contingent to Ukraine in an international peacekeeping operation in the Republic of Iraq, is important for our State not only in terms of the deployment of the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent to Iraq, but is a confirmation of the readiness to fulfil the international obligations of our State as a member of the United Nations, the consolidation of our strategic interests in the Gulf region. The legal basis of this decision is first of all UN Security Council Resolution 1483 of 22 May this year, in which the UN called on all States, UN members, to respond immediately, and I quote almost immediately its calls to help Iraq meet the humanitarian and other needs of the people, to rebuild the damaged infrastructure, to restore the normal functioning of the economy, to contribute to stability and security in that country. At the internal and state level, Ukraine's Act on Ukraine's participation in international peace operations is the main legislative instrument that gives Ukraine the right to participate in these processes. This law lays down requirements for the deployment of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to participate in a peacekeeping operation. First. An international peacekeeping operation itself is to be carried out, that is, a set of actions or actions under the auspices of the UN Security Council or a multinational force created under the approval of the UN Security Council. It's different. The concept of a peacekeeping operation laid down in the law provides for conflict management, engineering, other work, humanitarian assistance to the population, police functions to ensure security and human rights, and assistance in coping with the consequences of conflict. Third. A peacekeeping operation is to be carried out in accordance with a decision of the UN Security Council in accordance with the UN Statute or under the overall control of the UN Security Council. I will point out that, according to paragraph 8 of Resolution 1483, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, a well-known Brazilian diplomat with a 30-year service at the UN, Sergio, as head of UN operations in Iraq, who will provide the Security Council with regular reports on the activities of the stabilization forces, will coordinate the provision of assistance to Iraq's reconstruction activities. Thus, all the basic requirements of Ukraine’s law on Ukraine’s participation in international peacekeeping operations are in line with UN Security Council Resolutions No. 1483. In accordance with Ukrainian law and UN Security Council resolutions, the Ukrainian Armed Forces headed to Iraq will form part of a united, multinational, coalition force of stability. So-called KoOS-Iraq, who were given a proper UN mandate. The other one. The President of Ukraine's decision is to send a 5-by- 5-by-one mechanized brigade of 2 mechanized battalions and a special battalion of humanitarian aid, formed on a 19-by-one battalion of radiation chemical and biological protection that is now located in Kuwait. All the troops of this battalion, who had already undergone adaptations, agreed in writing to participate in the brigade. The contingent will include a group of Ukrainian officers who will work at the headquarters of the multinational division. It should be noted that the Deputy Division Commander, the Commander of the Multinational Division and the Deputy Chief of Staff will be appointed by the Ukrainian military. They're already defined. The total number of Ukrainian troops will be up to 1,800. This figure is based on the structure of this unit and the tasks that rely on it. Third. In terms of the financial aspect of this decision, according to previous estimates of the total amount of 69.4 million dollars over the year, two thirds of these funds will be compensated by the U.S. Government for the transport and maintenance of infrastructure for the maintenance of the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent, which the US Embassy has already reported with a note. Four. With regard to the security of the peacekeeping contingent, this issue will be addressed in accordance with the requirements of The Hague in 1907 and Geneva in 1949 of the conventions on the basis of which the status of the stability forces will be determined, on the other hand, by the structure of the Ukrainian peacekeeping brigade formed in such a way as by the Division, so that self-defence can be carried out by its own forces, in accordance with the UN mandate. And one last question. How much participation in measures to stabilize the situation in Iraq will correspond to strategic national interests. Iraq is the world’s second largest oil exploration country, which can become Ukraine’s long - term energy partner in the future, and it can work with us in other sectors of the economy. Ukrainian companies have already had the experience of cooperating with Iraq. Before the war, 36 Ukrainian companies were working with Iraq. Known companies like Styrol, NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, DAC Ukrressy, the holding company AutoCRAZ. In 2001, the volume of Ukrainian exports to Iraq amounted to $293 million. This has taken place under the conditions of UN restrictive sanctions. The sanctions are now off. In 2004, Iraq will receive up to US$15 billion from oil sales. The increasing capacity of Iraq greatly expands opportunities for Ukrainian enterprises in such areas as the construction of transport infrastructure, traditional supply of metal and construction machinery, such as oil production and processing. Among the applicants who are ready to come to the Iraqi market, known by Ukrainian companies, I've already called them some, as well as the Ukrabud Corporation, the Styrol concert, the ZAT, the Novokramator Machinery Plant, the Uktransbud and others. More than 80 Ukrainian companies expressed their intention to participate in Iraq’s economic development. It is clear that not all of them will stand out equally in a competitive fight, but the $5.2 billion that has already been earmarked to finance the first phase of reconstruction of Iraq is a strong argument for effective effort. These are contracts for the implementation of primary reconstruction projects in postwar Iraq — repairs of oil pipelines, roads, bridges, schools, hospitals, and mosques. Taking into account the fact that Iraq's economic problems are largely due to the ongoing political settlement process and even the temporary presence of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in Iraq will allow the existing obstacles to the practical involvement of Ukrainian enterprises in the reconstruction of Iraq and the restoration of Ukraine's former level of economic co-operation with the future government. Honorable National Deputies, thousands of miles from Ukraine Today, the future is not only resolved by Iraq, but a new system of international relations is being formed that will determine a new world arrangement for the coming decades. That is why 35 countries are ready to send troops in Iraq for stability, 16 parliaments have already voted in favour of such a decision, 46 countries are sending police forces. Globalization of international relations in political, economic, social and other spheres of life is an objective reality of the modern era, where it is not possible to passivity and restriction of the zone of national interests only by the borders of its own state. I believe that your decisions, honourable national deputies, will be wise, balanced, and responsible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u48	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to questions. I'm asking you to sign up for a question. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Anatoly Nostawaiko, the Communist faction, please. Is there a Nadjaiko?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u49	There's a faction of communists. Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u50	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u51	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I would still like to clarify. From your report, Eugene Kirilovich, you can understand that the chemical defense battalion in Kuwait is included in the units. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u52	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u53	Then I'd like to ask you, on what basis are you doing this? The decision of the Supreme Council was only to send this battalion to Kuwait and nowhere else. And you're talking about Iraq. The Supreme Council disagreed. This is the first time. It's different. You're still an explanation, because that's what you're going to say. The Security Council's decision states that the Security Council applies to member states that are able to provide assistance. Still, I wanted to ask: What opportunity does Ukraine have to provide help? That you're sending the builders there, the doctors after the Americans who destroyed the 400,000. Children in Iraq? You're sending teachers there, do you recommend? Whether you're directing troops into the occupying army, and Ukraine will be the country that directs the invaders. Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is a serious question, I'd like him to answer it anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u54	There are answers to all your questions, Peter Mikolaiovich. First, look at the same Security Council resolution, and you'll find answers to the questions that you've been asked. I quote in the official language of the United Nations: “Other States that are not occupying other States are currently working or can work in the future in the framework of the Administration”. [[a The Occupying United States and United Kingdom, which has been given a UN mandate for stability measures in Iraq]] That's the first one. So Ukraine, like other states, is getting out of the way as a occupying state by a UN Security Council resolution. The second, according to the Hague Convention of 1907 and Geneva of 1949, is a set of criteria that determine what a occupying state is. One of these criteria is when the occupying state uses the resources of the occupied state for its activities in the territory of that State. Ukraine does not anticipate or use Iraq’s resources for its activities. As far as doctors or builders are concerned, the honourable Peter Mikolaiovich does not need a parliamentary decision, and all it takes is the promotion of these structures to show their activity in participating in those contracts that are still possible today. I can say that the priority of an administration that has a UN mandate to participate in those contracts that you are talking about will be given first and foremost to those countries that are participating in the stabilization processes of security and stability in Iraq. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u55	It's about a battalion of radiochemicals.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u56	It's a battalion. It's a decision you're going to make today. First of all, we have to say the following. During negotiations with the Polish side, it was not decided for a long time whether the 19th Battalion would be involved in the division. And just a few days ago, the question was finally settled with the Polish side. So when we decide to send a peacekeeping brigade to Iraq, where we say battalion 19 enters. Thus, this decision absorbs a previous decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u57	Please, Victor Musiak, the European Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u58	What kind of State invites us there?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u59	Musiak, please. Your question. Are you filming? Sergey Drogunzov, please. Mussiahka passed on to Doroguntsev, Mussiahk sits, honourable colleagues, what you are, Mussiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u60	Dear Eugene Kirilovich. Last time, it's been 53 seconds, last time, you've been telling us that we need to send a battalion that no Ukrainian will be involved in any military or related action. And now, of course, an armed brigade is being sent, as you say, and it will be taking part in the operation. Now, what I'm going to say is that the area of Poland is, and Poland is not an occupation? That's another question. The second question. That the United States is so poor that they can't pay 22 million dollars yet we have to give them to the budget, to the bare and to the bare and to the bare.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u61	That's how I realized the point of your question is whether we're going to be taking our brigade in combat. The war in Iraq is over. First. There is no doubt in the 16 parliaments of our neighbours from Poland to Bulgaria, as well as Kazakhstan, Georgia, Azerbaijan, all Baltic countries, that they do not participate in hostilities. There is no fighting in Iraq, and there will be no fighting in Iraq. In order for them not to exist, the United Nations has created a unified coalition force that will ensure stability and security just so that there will be no fighting. And so, indeed, not one Ukrainian soldier has taken part in the fighting, but it is now proposed that the Ukrainian peacekeeping unit, formed according to the principles of peacekeeping, ensure peace and quiet that there is no fighting.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u62	Funding. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u63	I'll remind you, dear colleagues, that's the number. Ukraine received $171 million from the United Nations for its participation in peacekeeping operations. This is not compensation, it is almost a billion dollars in Ukraine's budget that has come from the United Nations for the fact that Ukrainian contingents are participating in peacekeeping activities as decided by the UN Security Council. In this case, I've already said two thirds will be compensated. The point is, Mr. Drogunzov, that the decision to take part or not is not worth today, not in terms of the cost of this operation on the Ukrainian side, but it costs in terms of the dimensions that I'm talking about. If Ukraine, to be honest, does not participate in the stabilisation process, you could say clearly: no company, all of those that I called would take part in any of those contracts -- that's data, that's axioma. So we need to measure strategic values and economic indicators that go beyond much of the cost of securing our battalion, not the battalion, but the brigades.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u64	Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u65	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, Turkish word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u66	Alexander Turchinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u67	I'd like to ask Mr. Marchuk next. When Russia asks your National Security Council to send Ukrainian units to Chechnya with peacekeeping operations, Tajikistan and so forth to be consistent, will it also make appropriate decisions? That's the first question. And the second. You don't have to deceive people's deputies. The UN did not decide to send peacekeeping units to Iraq. That's the first one. And second. These profits that you're talking about are going to get Kuchma and his environment, whose companies are going to be subcontractors for giving our boys their lives there. Thank you, please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u68	Nor should we confuse sin with the righteous one. First. As far as Russia is concerned. If the UN Security Council considers it necessary for Russia to participate, then Ukraine and Parliament will decide. In this case, the decision is based on a UN Security Council resolution, which Russia, inter alia, voted for as a permanent member of the UN Security Council. The other one. As for spending and revenue, I see that there's a desire to discuss this in more detail, and I could give you detailed data and name the structure of our product. The positive balance, the distinguished national deputies of economists, 2001 -- $293 million, billions of dollars left over, and where, one and a half billion dollars -- is a positive balance; 2002 -- that's when hard measures started. 112 million dollars. Can't we count that? Unless there's something you want to say. What do you say we put a cross on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u69	Thank you, Eugene Kirilovich. Time's up. Thank you. The committee for national security and defence is headed by Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u70	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow Members of the Assembly! Our committee has considered the President's decision on this matter. After a comprehensive discussion of all aspects of the political, factual, legal committee, by majority, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the approval of the President's decision on the grounds set out here by Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk, believing that the deployment of the brigade to Iraq would be in accordance with the national interests of Ukraine. [[7 "for", 2 "against", 4- "retained"]] The same decision was taken by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In our view, though, we do well to consider the concerns of national MPs who take a different position. First. In our society there is a widespread disapproval of the very idea of Ukraine's military participation in Iraq's actions. Whether we want to or not, our military will have to take part in the occupation of Iraq, even though the United States and the United Kingdom are recognized by the United States Security Council, whose actions are effectively legalized by the Security Council. In Britain, Tony Blair has already had to justify himself before his parliament regarding the reasons for his involvement in aggression against Iraq. Moreover, the formal war is not yet declared to be over. When the United States attacked Iraq from Ukraine for the political support of the United States for the overthrow of the so - called coalitions, they demanded that Ukraine send a battalion to Kuwait. Now that we've got to dig up what the United States has done, it's called for the Ukrainian Brigade to do a dirty job. There will be a turn for Iran, and perhaps we won't be able to do anything about it. It is unlikely that Ukraine will be able to escape. The other one. It takes extraordinary measures to protect the lives and health of our military personnel. Risks are also very high. The occupations in any country are known how. In addition, I repeat, our military is going to a country where, formally, I emphasize, there is a formal war going on. Some of our colleagues say that we should let our military make money, but this just shows that our Armed Forces are proving what condition. By the way, our masters in Iraq will -- the Poles -- pay their soldiers better than Ukraine. Third. The interpretation of a number of legal aspects of the problem and the definition of an international peacekeeping operation is not clear, since the UN Security Council's decision is about a stabilizing force. And our scientists, and the National Security and Defence Council, are saying that, in fact, I stress, they actually recognize these forces as international peacekeepers, which gives grounds for applying the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's Participation in International Peace Operations. In the same way, it is explained that this action is being carried out under the overall control of the UN Security Council. The same is true: it is actually being accomplished. So we're dealing with an exclusive interpretation situation, because there's no explicit definition, and the Supreme Council's issue is to agree to that interpretation or disagree. Another aspect of the problem is funding. You may have asked your esteemed colleagues for the statement of the Minister of Finance, he seems to have a First Vice Prime Minister, that: spending will not be a heavy burden for the state budget; transporting several thousand military personnel and maintaining them is not the main bill for the financial system of Ukraine, that costs will be covered within the budget of the Ministry. Well, you can see the minister. Although at the National Security and Defence Council, the Defence Minister raised this issue with concern, among other things. I want to add this to the next one. The material presented by the President states otherwise than what the Minister of Finance says. I quote: "Preparation and referral measures to this country are off-plan and require significant costs that were not foreseen for the 2003 mini-defence, their funding will be at the expense of the State Budget Reserve Fund." There is no visa from the Ministry of Finance. The representative of the ministry at the committee meeting couldn't clear up the situation; we don't know the position of our budget committee. And information for meditation. The costs needed to prepare and provide for our military personnel in Iraq, that is, the costs that we will bear, are the sums of the costs that are allocated to the training of personnel for culture and art, or for the state support of national theatres, national and national artistic groups, concert organizations. And they're a third larger than the government budget for library, museum and exhibition activities. And the last. About our battalion in Kuwait. In order for this to be legitimate, the President of Ukraine needs to decide immediately on the withdrawal of this battalion and then it can be included, if a decision is taken, in a brigade headed for the Republic of Iraq. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the head of the committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov. Here's the name of the people's deputies on the board. Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u72	Please pass the word to Terrence Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u73	Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u74	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Your Honor, this is the situation. Today Saddam's Guard is disbanded, it's in this country, it's armed, no one's giving up. And so when it's said today that our boys won't be involved in military operations, that's not true. You see these terrorist threats today, you see crowds coming out of the streets today and protesting against what happened. I'd like to know your clear opinion: are our guys going to kill someone and kill them, because when we press the button, we're going to give permission to this death? Is it as beautiful as Marcuk said?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u75	No, I don't think Eugene Kirilovich said everything's fine. It's not beautiful at all. You know from reports that American soldiers are being beaten almost daily. So there's a big threat. And in the list of tasks that are intended to be given to peacekeepers, there are shares and arms control for the civilian population and other functions, security and human rights. That is, the danger is great.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u76	Victor Timoshenko, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u77	Please pass the word to Bronnnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u78	Who? Bronjik, please. Deputy Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u79	Dear George Korneyevich! It is clear that all the troops will be in Iraq. In particular, they will have the task of protecting their own businessmen, the personnel of companies involved in Iraq's reconstruction, because it is far from a civilian world. Right. That our officers should be trained to do so. Does your committee plan to monitor the training of our officers to protect Ukrainian companies that will work for the reconstruction of Iraq? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u80	Dear colleague! The document, which was presented by the President, which referred to the tasks of the peacekeeping contingent, did not say a word that they should protect Ukrainian businessmen. And I don't know where there are any businessmen yet. The contingent is being sent completely for other purposes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u81	Vladimir Cherniak. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u82	Dear George Korniyovich! On one occasion, you spoke without your proper confidence, categorism, and dynamism. I feel like you don't have a clear internal position either. Did I think so? But the question, the first question: what is the legal side of this case, what does international law say about this, what is the basis for international law for this action? Second, there is no complete clarity as to the financial side of the matter. What has been said today about what will and will not be compensated? And the third question is, what are the neighbouring states and what are the states that are going to be involved in this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u83	Well, first of all, I have a position, I'm sure, I answered, as they say in Odessa, I worked there for a year and a half, "I said so much." So, I think that's enough. What States? Here's the information: they've already announced their forces to Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Georgia, Denmark, Estonia, Spain, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, the Republic of Korea, Romania, the Czech Republic and others, there were only 37 states on yesterday. 46 states have volunteered to send police forces. And the first question is me. Ah, the right side. Well, we have a nonstandard situation. When we sent her to other places, the Security Council decided to conduct an international peacekeeping operation and recommended that she take part in it, among other things, and she was making amends. When on the UN line, the UN pays for everything. It pays for everything. In this case, there is no such direct decision in the Security Council decision, there is a recommendation to take part in the stabilization measures. It doesn't even use the term "peace operation." And indeed, and the control sent by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General is to report, but this is something different than, in fact, the decision of the United Nations regarding the operations carried out, and is appointed the responsible one to control all of this. It's not there. So the situation is not standard; it needs to be interpreted. Scientific experts have interpreted what might be thought to be the case. No, it can be considered an international peacekeeping operation. In this case, Ukraine will participate in an international peacekeeping operation. Therefore, the matter of the Supreme Council should be decided on. The financial side that, the financial side, I'll tell you now. Ukraine, according to a report by the President, will finance the cost of developing and preparing a peacekeeping contingent. That's 26.3 million dollars. This is Ukraine. Paying a special deposit, a monthly foreign currency cash reward. This will be 38.7 million in bracelets by the end of the year. These are our people, yes, for execution. And it predicts 4.4 million in the event of a loss of health or death. Transport of contingents to Iraq, where the material and technical security of its activities to the sites will be carried out at the expense of the United States Government. The United States gave a note confirming that they would do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u84	Thank you, Georgi Korniovich. Time is up, thank you for your report and your answers. Dear National Deputies! Let's move on to the discussion. I ask you to put on the board those who signed up for the talks, as we agreed for 20 minutes. Please state the name of the national MPs on the board. I invite Edward Gurwicz to prepare for Mironka. Is there a Gurvitz? Please, Mironenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u85	5 constituency, Mironenko, Communist faction. Respectable compatriots! Unfortunately, we heard a lie. First. The UN Security Council Resolution of 22 May 2003 does not contain a single mention of the need to introduce military units into Iraq. Second. The U.S. has repeatedly lied to Ukraine. They called for the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. They promised to give money. They didn't. They called for the elimination of mines and missiles, promised to help with the disposal of missiles -- deceived, exacerbated environmental and other problems in Ukraine, and so on. Some U.S. satellites now resemble the hyenas waiting for another massacre in the hope of gaining their share in this bloody cause. Ukraine must not follow this humiliating, shameful, criminal path. We must not bring misery and death to other peoples and to our citizens. Every death of a Ukrainian citizen in Iraq will be on the conscience of those who vote for this direction of our people. But, uh, those who spoke of the impossibility of sending our soldiers to Chechnya are now ready to vote in favour of sending them to Iraq. Doesn't anyone else understand that Iraq is being occupied in order to obtain Iraqi oil and gas under the false pretext of having weapons of mass destruction there? American General James Conway, a representative of the United Nations, acknowledged that weapons of mass destruction had been found. The occupation, which demeans all mankind, has proved to be deceiving. As a result, Americans are now legally killed in Iraq, there is a legal expansion of the liberation struggle to continue the occupation of Iraq for the benefit of American oligarchs, corporations to prevent the deaths of Americans there, and the United States is attempting to attract other countries, including Ukraine, to kill Ukrainians and not Americans for American interests. Budget workers do not receive the necessary funds, tens of thousands of people in Ukraine die from tuberculosis and other diseases for which the State does not provide the necessary funds, so it intends to pay for the death of our people in Iraq. It is clear to all that U.S. rulers, as a fascist Hitler in due course, seek world domination. That is what the occupation of Yugoslavia, Iraq, is about. Other countries are on the line. If we, together with the world's progressive public, do not break the chain of aggressions, atrocities, do not get the occupation of foreign troops out of Iraq if we commit an adventure, cheat the United States, bring our soldiers into Iraq, we will not only commit an extremely moral, cruel, anti-human act contrary to an international norm, we will harm humanity and our Ukrainian Family. In view of all this, given the inadmissibility of engaging in aggression, the inadmissibility of encouraging the aggressors to invade Iran and other countries to prevent the death of our people for the interests of the United States, I ask very much to vote against the sending of the Ukrainian unit to Iraq. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u86	Thank you. The word is Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction. This is a 500th performance by Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin at this session. Let's welcome him.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u87	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear guests, diplomats! Dear multi-ethnic Ukrainian people, today you are plagued by drought, today without war you suffer from acts of privatization, today without war you suffer from the overthrow of the judiciary, today without war every day, every hour of us Ukrainians are reduced to three men. It's without war. Our Ukrainian people are a peaceful people. He gave up nuclear weapons in 1994, he trusted all of you, gentlemen of diplomats, diplomats of fat-fed countries, he believed that you would secure Ukraine's security, he believed that you would then provide compensation for the power at the Chernobyl nuclear station. What did you do? You have deceived this people, you have deceived them, and you need to speak clearly about it. Now it's our internal question. Whether to send or not to send troops. The UN resolution clearly defines the status of countries as occupying states. So Ukraine can become a de jure occupying state. Next. This is not a peacekeeping operation that is comparable to Ukrainian legislation. Is it morally or morally? From a moral standpoint, being an invader in Ukraine is not moral. From a political point of view, is it convenient for Ukraine or not? Yeah, that's convenient. This completely consolidates the entire regime in power for many years, providing assistance to all of our foreign friends. And from an economic point of view, is it convenient for our people? 1,800 people still being sent, worried about them there, putting them under bullets -- is that normal? So as a lawyer, as the leader of the Party of Fatherland Defenders, I say that our economic interests are very questionable. It's immoral to send troops there. And look what's going on. Poland is sent by 2,000 people who are NATO members. We're not a NATO member, we're already holding 1,355 people in the nine regions of the world, plus this 1800, plus the battalion in Kuwait. So it's 3,000, 655 people. We are not a NATO country, we have as many people there. I'll vote against it, although I'm sure most people will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u88	Thank you, thank you. Yes, Solomonine gives his word to Peter Simonck. Alexander Frost will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u89	Dear colleagues! Simonenko, the Communist faction. From the outset, I want to say that the Communist faction opposes the adoption of this law and suggests that it be rejected and not voted down, because we send our military, and this is our sons, not with a noble mission and not a humanitarian mission, but a real and specific war. And that's what we're putting their lives at risk, and the United States is now hiding the fact that there are dozens of American soldiers there and today they're killing them in this real war. So, given the specific circumstances, we would like to propose -- a faction of Communists -- to everyone else who was meeting yesterday with the President, most of them, and to whom the order to vote has already been given, pay attention! There is no legal document ending the war in Iraq. The war just starts there, and it's being talked about openly by the media, and that's exactly the real threat that we're going to be suffering there, is what our soldiers are talking about. First, is there an American operation in Iraq an international peacekeeping operation, as the President calls it? Of course not. This operation was conducted without a decision by the Security Council and was a violation of the United Nations Statute. As a result, the independent Iraq suffered, not a peacekeeping operation, but occupations. The other one. Will our troops, which the law proposes to send to Iraq, have the status of a peacekeeping contingent? No, they will not, for the United Nations Peace Operations Statute provides for the invitation or request of the United Nations to a particular country to provide its armed forces as a peacekeeping force. What kind of state would want to ask Marcuk, asked Ukraine to take part in this action, I don't say what's the point. Next. We must understand that this will not be a peacekeeping contingent, but an occupying contingent in which Ukraine will participate. The legitimacy of the actions of the United States and its allies is very questionable. You, ladies and gentlemen, know that a campaign is now under way in the United States to address the specific circumstances of the lie of official Washington and London regarding the motives that prompted the U.S. and British leadership to launch military aggression against the people of Iraq. We need you to understand today that in this life of our boys. This is a real, specific situation. And by making that decision, people or national deputies -- who vote for it, take personal responsibility for, don't give it to God, and the death of our boys who are going to go there. That's why I'm paying attention to the people's deputies. The Communist faction will not vote and urge all of you not to vote because it is not a humanitarian mission, whether it is a continuation of military aggression in the status of occupying armies. And the invaders are being fought by the entire nation. That's why our military will be in real danger. The Communist faction calls on everyone not to vote in favour of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u90	From the faction of the Socialist Party, the word is given to Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz. The next one is the Bubble.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! I don't want to talk about high politics, about the United States, Iraq, the UN and everything. There's no high policy here. It's just that the Ukrainian political bomber, the government, the Security Council, and now, with the hands of the Supreme Council, they want to keep their pants on to one person who they haven't held on to for a long time. And it should be borne in mind that both the United States and other Western nations, in particular, have long evaluated this person. And sending our contingent to Iraq isn't going to help anyway, it's just a shame that Ukrainian boys are going to put their heads in. And the part here is ready to take responsibility, again, for the demeanor role that the President gave you yesterday in meeting with the majority leaders and, apparently, I suspect, I may even have spoken to the leader of our Ukraine, Victor Yushchenko. That's why I'm addressing the representatives of our Ukraine, those deputies who adopted the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine in 1990. Now looking only at those who are being voted on today, I can call them names -- Mokrousov, Kravczuk, Borzich, Šwidzenka, Shershun, Hare, Steckov, Kosovo, Kendzior, Red and others. People are good! When we discussed the declaration, remember the 9th article, by John Durres, he spoke of non-block status, he spoke of Ukrainian boys not putting their heads anywhere abroad! You were talking about Afghanistan! We talked about the need to withdraw troops from Afghanistan. And now we've forgotten all about it?!Oh, my God! So I don't want to repeat myself, I don't want to go to high categories, I don't want to go to high politics. It's simple and humiliating for Ukraine. If we want to be an authority, not in this way, but in other people’s meals we can earn authority, but only by consciously purposeful policies to protect the interests of our people wherever they are! But tell me, where are the interests in Iraq?Oh, my God! Maybe in those earrings? Today, Mark mentioned 112 million. Why didn't he mention another 100 million who took the Rings, but not a penny came into the budget! He's talking about a hundred and an extra, billions of revenue there, different things from the UN. In the budget, show one penny that came at the expense of this! Where, then, is the money?Oh, my God! Who will be responsible? So I turn to those who are willing to vote. When black tulips come from Iraq, you must go to funerals! Then you will see how people view this problem! I remember when I was in my relationship with Afghanistan. How all people reacted to it. Today, the situation is quite different. Let us not humiliate ourselves. Let us not be content with someone who will no longer be helped! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u92	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine get ready, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u93	Mr. Chief, distinguished national MPs! Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine One of the undisputed sums of Iraq’s occupation of Saddam Hussein had no weapons of chemical or other weapons of mass destruction. And it is logical that the United States Congress is investigating the circumstances of the decision to take military action against Iraq. The same is true in the British Parliament. Thus, in truly democratic countries, the superior authority responds to similar actions by the government. Instead of admitting the absurdity and groundlessness of sending the Ukrainian Chimbat to Kuwait, instead of demanding its immediate return, we are looking for an excuse for our leadership's next adventure. For what and for what purpose should our military go to the conflict zone? As a result of the aggression, Americans gained control of Iraqi oil. This control must now be ensured that it is more difficult than to overthrow a dictatorial regime that does not have sufficient support among the population. The Kurds, the Muslims, the Shiites wanted to overthrow Hussein's regime. Now the situation has changed, anti - American sentiments are on the rise, Islamic fundamentalism is on the rise. Iraq could turn for the Americans into the second Iran. Under these circumstances, the United States is forced to seek allies to provide its own interests. And Ukraine, with its weak, discredited involvement in crime corruption, is as good a leader as any. These will not ask for at least any support from the strong world before the presidential elections. Maybe they won't mention Gongadze for once, Lazarus. Would you like to know what particular business structures will have access to the projects that Americans promise? Perhaps then it will be clear who voted in the Supreme Council and why. We cannot help but agree with the conclusion of the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council regarding the financing of the stock. I quote: "It raises doubts as to the ability of the Ukrainian economy to keep such a large contingent in Iraq. Moreover, for example, the increase in the minimum wage to 237 dollars due to economic imbalances was carried over to December 2003.” I'm supporting Alexander Alexander Moroz, and I'm addressing everyone, if you don't give God, Iraq will be flying black tulips with zinc drones, with our boys, then people will ask who's to blame. And he will show the Supreme Council how he has done this more than once. And then few will mention the real initiators of this adventure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u94	Timoshenko Julia Volodymyr is from Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u95	Julia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues! I am convinced that my speech will no longer change the schedule of votes that are on the floor. And what a disgraceful decision to send our military contingent to Iraq will surely be found in our parliament, sadly, most of us. But I'm going to give it a try. There are four aspects to this question. The first is legal, the second is political, material, economic and moral. With regard to the legal aspect, we all know very well that there are no direct decisions in the UN resolution to send contingents to Iraq, on the other hand, a clear occupation recognized and given accordingly. The second question is political. Ask yourself, please, why there are no democratic elections in Iraq. Why Iraq does not make preparations for these elections, does not determine how they will be held, but many, many months in advance the administrations that will govern the lives of another nation. You know no weapons of mass destruction have been found in Iraq. And many politicians around the world who supported this intervention are now resigning because no democratic processes in Iran are in place. The next aspect is the material, economic aspect. And I want to make it clear to our politicians that this protects the national interests of Ukraine, that it gives Ukraine certain preferences in the world that will boost us economically. On this subject, I can say three things. First. Ukrainians have never played marauders in the world. And sharing what belongs to other nations is none of our business. Another aspect. I want to address the National Patriotic Forces. You don't know that it was our boys who were in those areas where the sovereignty of the nation was destroyed. And they did not side with the invaders and the aggressors, but they took sides with those nations that defend their sovereignty. And I can tell you the next thing you know, there's no document formalized that would secure the preferences of this kind of material for Ukraine, and there's no such document anywhere. And this will be another betrayal of Ukraine and Ukrainian interests. And the last thing about morality. I know that talking to some moral politicians is like talking to cannibals about vegetarianism. But I'm still going to say a few words. You know that the principles of good and evil in the world are lost. And if you don't know which decision to make, you better go to the Bible, and it says, "Don't do to another what you'd never do to yourself." Please tell us if we want to see in Ukraine what is happening today in Iran. I'm asking you to be responsible for pressing this button. Our faction will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u96	Honorable national MPs, one minute, are insisting on the repulsion, since his name has been mentioned. Please, Red, and then I'll ask for Eugene Kirilovich's closing statement. And if it doesn't, the committee head refuses. And then we'll continue to determine our respectable colleagues. Please, Red.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u97	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The leader of the Socialist faction, Mr. Alexander Moroz, mentioned my last name in the list of those approached and aggrieved. I'd like to say that's a little bit wrong with reality. In fact, no one approaches me, no one is agitating, because he knows my position clearly. In fact, for many years now, no one has been aging at me. I would like to say that I will not vote, I have my motives, I think that I, as a descendant of those voters who voted for me, stand in a clear position in which the Ukrainian insurgent army stood -- always fighting on the side of the enslaved peoples, not on the side, let's say, the imperialist regime of Russia or Germany. If the Poles took their time in Volina in 1943, taking sides with one or the other invaders, the UPA and the voters who now support the UPA never stood. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u98	Turn off the microphone. Dear National Deputies! Let's work it out this way. Now it's closing. Wait, we'll be there. The Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk, requests. After that, we will need to exchange our thoughts with our motives, but we will take some time to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u99	Dear National Deputies! There were a number of inaccuracies in the performances of the national MPs. It is said that these are not peacekeeping operations that the UN Security Council does not have such a term in its decision, there is no word for "peace operation". [[1483]] Let me remind you that diplomats know that in no decision of the UN Security Council, whether it's the Congo or Sierra Leone or Kosovo, Bosnia, Herzegovina or the Congo. Ethiopia has not been and is nowhere to be used such a concept as "peacemaking contingent or "peacemaking." In each case, however, the objectives and responsibilities of the contingent that receives the UN mandate, which is a peacekeeping network. It's to take away these speculations. The other one. As far as military personnel are concerned. It was said that there was no call for the deployment of military personnel. It's not like that. When I look at the UN Security Council resolution in Preamble, I quote, to be precise, "The Security Council - I read the original, Russian, UN language - further welcoming the willingness of Member States to promote stability and security in Iraq by providing staff." Next. There is an International Convention, which was approved by the UN General Assembly in 1995 on staff security, where staff are defined as “persons recruited by the United Nations as members of the military, police or civilian components of the United Nations operation”. I already called him Vieira de Mellow. Next. Financials. It's about finance. Dear colleagues! People's economic deputies can call you. If there is a positive balance of 293 million, what taxes to the State budget from this positive balance. That's the first one. And the second. I can tell you that only one company that carried our military personnel to Kuwait got our airline, the Ministry of Defense got more than $5 million and paid the budget tax. As far as functions are concerned, to be completed. The main functions are the UN Security Council, which consists of the protection of public authorities; and the protection of local authorities. In particular, it is not entirely clear that there are no elections in Iraq. The national elections are being prepared, but the local authorities and the entire number of cities, not all, really, are having a difficult process there. It's for clarity. And the last is an invitation or an invitation. First of all, I've already told you that the Security Council is inviting and calling. First. The other one. There are official invitations from the Polish government to participate in the Polish division and government of the United States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u100	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you for reasons. Five minutes of motive. Boris Tarasyuk, please. We had to get out of here. The motive is Lucenko, Boki and Kravchenko, and that's it. Five minutes, I think that's enough for now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u101	Thank you. Since the presentations mentioned the position of the faction "Our Ukraine," I am authorized to make the following statement. Of course, Ukraine must pursue active foreign policy and it is an axiom. Ukraine cannot stand aside from the most topical issues of world politics, including the situation in Iraq. And in this respect, Ukraine's participation in international peacekeeping operations is an important component of our state's foreign policy. Of course, it would be logical to support the offer in view of these circumstances. At the same time, the attitude and conduct of authority, superficiality, and unreasonable propositions are surprising. The legal side of submission is very much concerned, as is the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which does not stand up to any criticism. Yes, the International Peace Operations Act now requires that a multinational operation be conducted and monitored by the UN Security Council. We have not received the answer because these forces are not under the control of the Security Council and the UN. So it doesn't matter whether the Security Council resolution mentions an international peacekeeping operation or not? The point is that in the sense of our law on international peace operations, this operation does not fit. Next. Thus, this operation cannot be regarded as an international peacekeeping operation. He can’t help but worry or worry us.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u102	Boris Ivanovich, time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u103	the attitude of power towards opposition factions with which no work has been done. A number of questions, regarding security assurances and peacekeeping personnel, regarding social protection, remain unanswered. That's what will determine the position of the faction "Our Ukraine" in the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u104	Thank you, it's been two hours. Please, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u105	Yuri Lucenko, Socialist Party of Ukraine As the Socialist Party had warned, Kuchma was not satisfied with the dispatch of the Ukrainian hembatalion to the area of combat. He was evidently pleased with the permission to be present at a meeting of European leaders. Now our president wants us not only to greet him but also to extend our hand. This is what Kuchma sends to thousands of eight hundred military personnel as invaders of the central, most dangerous area of Iraq. Kuchma knows that United States and United Kingdom soldiers are regularly killed in Iraq. But he is willing to send half of Ukraine there to keep the world’s leaders out of sight. The Socialist Party strongly opposes such a decision for such reasons. First. Ukrainian military officials swore allegiance to Ukraine, not to Britain, to the United States, Poland, or to other countries. Block Ukraine has no right to sacrifice its citizens' lives for oil. It is impossible to save the questionable reputation of Kuchma by risking the lives of hundreds. Enough of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u106	Ivan Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u107	Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u108	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u109	Recently, our Parliament here adopted a resolution condemning aggression against Iraq. They said, "A," let's not be "B." We must vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u110	Thank you. Ivan Boki. Then there's Mikola Kravchenko and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, I asked a written question to Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk. Sadly, he did not respond. So I want to ask these questions to understand what's going on. First. I asked myself: ‘ Would we not rather use this money that we want to throw away in Iraq essentially to rebuild the destroyed Kuchma Ukraine? And he specifically called the Sokerian city of Sokerian district of Chernivets region, where there has been a 12-15-year-old unfurnished district hospital, a pancho-scarpet factory. School and so on. And my second question was, well, if we're already so anxious about Iraq, you know that's not exactly relevant this year, we're not going to feed people with oil. And in Swaziland, if we had a peacekeeping operation, and that's very relevant, because there the king argued with the women of his people, he forbidding them to wear their robes. And so we would have to reconcile these two sides.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u112	Thank you. Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u113	And there's corn that we could feed our cows.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u114	Mikola Kravchenko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u115	Cowchenko. Vladimir Mihajlovich, speaking of procedure, is, of course, in breach of procedure. Here. But I would like to ask you, as President, to further shield the Supreme Council from such disputes and behaviour on the rostrum of the Supreme Council, as Marchuk did. We understand he's a general, though I know. That he is a general of such doubtful origin, but that is how he behaves and teaches the Supreme Council and the members of the Supreme Council. I know there's an election going on there, I know what's formed there. I know what's done there, and so on, it's illegal even in general pursuits. Second. However it may be, dear Mr. Marchuk, you can tell us here and from this rostrum all you want, but it is up to us, the people's deputies, to make a decision and responsibility. And what you're taking us on is that you're forging a Security Council resolution today is on your conscience, and you'll be responsible in time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, five minutes was taken away from the motive. Time's up. We're going to get into the discussion again. Please, head of the regulatory committee. I'm asking for the attention of the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u117	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to talk to both you and my respectable colleagues! Before the vote is held, this is not just an important one, but perhaps a very important one for the lives of our citizens and for our country. So I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to pay particular attention now to the last rows of the central part of our hall, where there are very many empty places, that is, there are no national deputies in this plenary meeting. And I would like to ask you, as chairman of our session, to warn the people's deputies of the need to comply with the requirements of the Rules and the Constitution of our State on the individual vote of this very important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take into account the opinion and suggestion that is in line with the Rules of Procedure of the Committee. I put to the vote the Ukrainian Act on the Approval of the President of Ukraine's Decision on the deployment of a peacekeeping contingent for Ukraine's participation in an international peacekeeping operation in the Republic of Iraq. This is number 3572. Please vote. [[11:46:22]] For 273 Decision taken. Please, by the factions. I'm going to announce, one minute, I'll put my glasses on. I'll just call it pro. Our Ukraine - 39 Communists - 0 Ukraine - 46 Industrial and Business Party and Labour Ukraine - 40 Ukraine's Social Democratic Party - 37 [[united]] Democratic Initiatives - 20 Ukrainian Socialist Party - 0 European Choice - 18 People's Landing - 19 Yulia Block Timoshenko - 3 Agrarian Party - 16 People's Choice — 14 Ukrainian People's Democratic Party - 13 Postfraction -8 Valery Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u119	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I haven't bothered you in a while, so you forgot my last name. I wanted to say from the procedure, but the positive vote only helped me. Our contingent in Kuwait was under the "secret" heading. So neither the public nor the national deputies were allowed there to monitor how this service is going on. And the author of this secrecy was Mr. Marchuk. I, however, would like the Supreme Council now, whether by a vote or a decision, to determine that there is a public and a national MP, to have the right to control the presence of our military contingent in Iraq. And not for Mr. Marchuk to determine the secrecy of this peacekeeping operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u120	I beg of you, my fellow Members, I think it's a good offer. I would ask the Defence and Security Committee to prepare proposals so that we can actually provide parliamentary control over the placement, conditions of residence, residence and conditions of our contingent. And we will obviously consider and make the right decision. Please, Eugene Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! Yesterday the Committee on Defence and State Security and then another Foreign Affairs Committee made such a decision that these committees are taking custody of our brigade, so I think the issue is exhausted. It's the committees, not every individual MP, when he wants to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u122	Dear National Deputies! Let's go to chapter two, third reading. The draft Law on Mortgage is being announced for consideration. Reporter of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Mr. Dmitry Volodymyrovich. Please, Dmitri Volodyrovich. I'm asking the people's deputies to focus on continuing our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u123	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The working group, which consisted of representatives of the National Bank of Ukraine, the World Bank, the National Deputies and representatives of our committee, completed the drafting of the table and amendments to the third reading of the Mortgage Bill. I'm not going to remind you of the history of this bill, you know, but I want to add that there were 22 amendments to the third reading, and they were all included. The Committee on Finance and Banking at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill in the third reading and in general. So please support this bill. Thank you for your attention. Support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law on Mortgage in the third reading and generally as a law, since all the amendments to the third reading are taken into account. Please vote. In the third reading and as a law. [[11:50:31]] For 307 Decision taken. The law is passed. Thank you. The draft Law on the Order of Decommissioning in Nature in Land Areas for Land Pile Owners is being announced for consideration. Reporter Tjak Roman Volodymyrovich. Is there a Tuck? Please have Roman Volodymyrovich here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u125	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. A committee meeting took place yesterday, and a decision was taken at the committee meeting to support the bill. Last time in the vote, he, the bill, did not receive the support of the hall. Yesterday we discussed these questions that were expressed in the hall, and yet we ask that it be supported in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, let's do it this way. Who insists on amendments that are out of the question? He disagrees with the committee’s proposals. Well, please tell me, I told you. Hennady Andriyovich doesn't insist, I asked, but I didn't speak for myself. For reasons, please, Seminouk Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u127	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! The socialist faction in the previous session did not vote in favour of this bill because of the 2 articles. First. We have the Earth Code, which clearly sets out the procedure for the implementation of earth’s decommissioning in kind. According to article 56, earth’s implementation is clearly expected to begin in 2005. The same bill on how to allocate land in kind already provides for the implementation of land through land certificates. It means trade, not trade, but paper. Therefore, article 2 cannot be voted on. And I am addressing today as a holy day to all representatives and the majority and minorities, a bill cannot repeal the Earth Code, which clearly foresees a moratorium on the implementation of the earth. That's why I'm asking you not to support this bill. Article 2 contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine, and on this holy day do not commit a crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u128	Dear Valentino Petrovna! By now, about 30 percent of the certificates already distributed are already being distributed. But as of today, this process of separation, not sale, but of decommissioning of land in kind, but to this day it is only going through the order of the State Commission. The question is, this is just to be incorporated into the law. And the issue of land sales is not in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Since all the proposals are taken into account, those who have been rejected have been satisfied with the motivation, we have every reason to vote on the adoption of this law in the second reading and in general as a law. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law on the Order of In-kind Delimitation in the Land Areas to landowners of land-pile for adoption in second reading and in general as a law. Please vote. [[11:54:38]] For 305 The law is passed. A draft law on the protection of the rights of agricultural car buyers is being announced for consideration. Kalinczuk Vasil Antonovich, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The Committee received 38 amendments and comments. They are not counted or rejected by the committee alone. I'd like that. This is the 11th amendment, please look. I'd like you to take a look and I'll explain why.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u131	Just a minute. The Plástinski National MP insists on his amendment? No, it doesn't. Then there's no need.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u132	I'm asking you to accept it as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u133	Dear National Deputies! Since all the amendments are taken into account, there is a committee decision, I am voting on the adoption of a draft law on the protection of the rights of buyers of agricultural machines for adoption in second reading and in general as a law. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:55:58]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Well, respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u134	Corrections are all taken into account, dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u135	I'm addressing the people's deputies. Corrections are taken into account! I put to the vote, once again, attention to the adoption of the draft law on the protection of the rights of buyers of agricultural machines to be adopted on second reading. Please vote. Vote, please. [[11:56:36]] For 242 Now let's put it in general as a law. No, I only put it on second reading. Please, Victor Pinzenik. We only accepted it on second reading. May I have your attention, Victor Pinzenic?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u136	Dear colleagues! There is no law that discriminates against Ukrainian producers because the rules of this law cannot operate in Poland, America, Holland and so on. This law essentially requires protection only to national manufacturers, and we don't touch importers. This law is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u137	I'm sorry, but you've had the opportunity to make an amendment to that law to the importers. I'm still asking you to vote, dear friends, honourable colleagues, as the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u138	I'll put it to a vote. Dear colleagues! You should correct the second reading if you deny it. Corrections have been taken into account. What are some objections that can be corrected? I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law on the Protection of the Rights of Consumers of Agricultural Machines for adoption as a whole. I had to make some adjustments earlier. [[11:57:59]] For 238. The law is passed. A draft Law on the mandatory State Pension Insurance is being announced for consideration. [[second reading]] Reporter: First Deputy Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Aloshin Sergey Borisovich. Please. Oh, Valery Borisovich, I'm sorry. Excuse me, Valery Borisovich. Please, Peter Cibenko, Stepanovich. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u139	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the law is quite complex, it's responsible, it's large enough, we have two minutes to break. So I would like to talk to you, to my colleague, about the fact that the law is truly extremely responsible, large and unforgivable. And I would like to take very carefully those proposals, and above all those proposals that are not included in this law, because the price of the law is extremely high.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u140	Yuri Yehanurov, may I have your attention?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u141	Yuri Yehanurov, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, there are three points by which we request that he be transferred to the third reading. If there is a principle of consent to a third reading, there is a suggestion to vote now. Three points relating to the simplified taxation system.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, there's a committee proposal. Let's hear it, it's also relevant to what I know. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that a very large number of proposals have been processed during the drafting of the bill. Yet, indeed, there are a number of positions that maintain discussion, and for which no final decision has been found. I can name the positions that the committee intends to consider further and look for a consensus solution in the hall. This is primarily the case with the system of compulsory government pension insurance for those who use a simplified system of taxation and their employees. We suggest that this issue continue to be discussed and found a solution in the third reading. The same applies to the provision of insurance for military, chief, and military personnel. These were the issues that sparked the most intense discussion in preparation for the second reading of the bill. The question of how to enforce the law remains controversial enough. This is stated in the final positions of this law. And I am convinced that it is now necessary to draw the attention of both the ministries of finance and the government as a whole to the fact that the introduction of the law since 2004 requires a better understanding of the needs of the Pension Fund in the allocation of sources of pension financing. Finally, there are various issues about how the status of the Pension Fund is changing. The bill provides for the transformation of the pension fund into a self-governing organization that is managed on tripartite grounds, like all social insurance funds. Yet the bill provides for a gradual transition to such a management system. These are the issues that caused much discussion in preparation for the second reading and which are well - founded for the third reading. In addition, a number of proposals by the National Deputies have not been taken into account, which, according to the working group of the Joint Working Group, and according to the committee's deputies, are not financially sound. In particular, this applies to a number of billing suggestions regarding the size of the insurance ratio of insured persons who were in the solidarity system. Some of the proposals made by the people’s deputies cannot be financially justified, so the committee did not take them into account when working on the second reading. With regard to the speaker, there is a proposal to support the draft Supreme Council decree on the adoption of a second - reading bill with reference to particularly the problematic chapters that I have heard for the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u144	Peter Cibenko, please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u145	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Peter Cibenko Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I join those warnings about referring to the third reading of questions about, first, small and medium-sized businesses, simplified taxes, military personnel. This is really a third reading problem. But in the process of second reading, we have to answer a number of questions that the Supreme Council should answer, not a working group. So all the amendments, especially my very many amendments, I'm going to insist on a few of them, they have to be considered today on second reading, and I insist on that in principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u146	Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u147	Dear colleagues! I would like to ask you all, without exception, to be as careful as possible with this law. I understand that we are tired of discussing the past and the mass of everything else, but my dears, I am deeply convinced that, as a result of this call, we will be asked questions and we will have to answer, and what did we do about the pension security for the current pensioners and for those who will? If we don't do this today and we don't accept this law, but we're going to go into some kind of casuistism, believe me, in fact, we'll be ashamed of the fact that we've put down a situation that, practically, is now 99 per cent ready. That is why I repeat: to the maximum of care, to the maximum of my own responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u148	Thank you. The People's Deputy of Vernigor. So I want to end up doing something.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u149	Vernigore, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished reporter! You know, for days, the Cabinet of Ministers submitted to the Supreme Council a bill on the sole social tax. HOW can we today, without considering this bill without establishing social, insurance, or other standards, even consider this bill in a second reading? I ask you very much to transfer the second reading to the deadline after we consider the bill on the sole social tax. Only then will this one be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u150	Thank you. I think it's important that we don't adopt the law at all. Then something else will come in and we'll keep working. Kirilenko, please. The way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u151	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, the working group has worked for a long time, and it has worked well enough. Most of the comments that were made in the first reading are taken into account, but there is a whole range of problems that we cannot solve now because there are opposite positions and they are listed by the reporter. All the other amendments, including those that are unaccounted for, including a whole series of my amendments, and also not counted, are, in my opinion, second or third-rate. If we get involved now in voting on all the amendments that aren't included, it's hundreds. So it's just going to destroy the effectiveness of our work. So I would like to now vote in the second reading with reference to the third reading of the problematic articles published in the report of the committee of profile, and this will be the effective position of the Supreme Council. Otherwise, we're really going to destroy the whole thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u152	Please rephrase the committee’s proposal. Just so all MPs understand, please, Valery Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u153	The committee, the Committee for Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, has introduced a draft decree in accordance with which the Supreme Council is invited to take a decision on the second reading of the bill. And there's a commission to prepare for the third reading of the bill. We can specify the requirements for the third reading on the list of issues that I have heard. We can't specify.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u154	He needs to be specified, that would be normal. Please, Peter Cibenko. And it will now be determined by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u155	Valery Borisovich, dear colleagues! I've been drawing your attention to the price of this question, and so I'm asking you, more importantly, I insist, on the four amendments that I have made to this document, I insist on voting in this room. Because we're just going to put away the problems that are in the law, we're going to put them on third reading, and then we're going to say that third reading doesn't provide for consideration of amendments. And that's the end of it, and that's what happened to the Earth Code. Once again, I urge you not to accept the second reading without answering the questions that the MPs have to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u156	Let's vote on those amendments, let's vote on those four amendments and all. What adjustments, let's call them by the number they are. The MP insists, let's do it all. What an amendment, Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u157	Amendment 177. The point is that I think we should take the unemployed, anyway, to the list of insured persons that we have to take to them!Oh, my God!! Maybe!!!! Registered at the Employment Center. [[Officially]] Otherwise, it turns out that we order a person several times. First, he lost his job, his family lost his income, thirdly, we got him off the insurance list, and then fourthly, we're going to order him to retire. I insist on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u158	I'm putting to the vote Amendment 177, this is page 36. You've just heard the rationale for the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u159	Let me have a few comments on this proposal. She wasn't counted. [[12:09:40]] For-98
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u160	It's in 98. For reasons, please, Matthew Vladimir Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u161	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, we should probably end with you in the end because we are in the process of discussing the bills in the second reading. You can't do that! For two years now, for the third year, we have practically not followed the procedure for organizing a second reading of drafts. Article 6.6. 3 says that during the second reading of the bill, it is subject to an article-by-article discussion and an article-by-article vote. Now, indeed, you have put to the vote, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. But notice, half the national deputies are no longer in the hall. And even if they wanted to support it, they couldn't do it because they've already taken a break, just like article 2.1.5 of the Rules, which says that the plenary sessions are held from 10 to 12 hours with a 30-minute break, from 12 to 12.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u162	Dear National Deputies, then, what are we going to do for a break? I'm asking you, distinguished national MPs, to be in your seats after a break. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 40 minutes, that is, half an hour and we will continue to consider the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u163	We continue to consider the amendments made by Peter Stepanovich Cibenk. Please invite the national deputies to the session room, and we will continue our work. I should not have taken a break, I'm looking at it like that. You should not take a break from us, really. The following changes by Peter Stepanovich. Peter Stepanovich, what's your next amendment? We voted 177, didn't we? Zibank's microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u164	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, well, I'm looking, in the hall, I'm sorry, there's not even half the required number of votes. I realize that the amendments will be doomed because there are no humans. Let's invite people to the hall! By the way, it's people's attitude towards pension reform, sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u165	I ask once again to invite the national deputies to the session room. Now we have 430 national MPs registered, there's good reason, let's continue with the argument of further amendments. Please, Peter Stepanovich, your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u166	Okay. Amendment 378. What are we talking about? The point is that the current pension law now provides that under 25 years of male employment and 20 years of female employment, the amount of wage. The percentage of salary taken to calculate the pension is set at 55 percent. So a simple arithmetic estimate shows that this is 2.75 percent for women, 2.2 percent for men. In that rule of law that is proposed, it is proposed that this rule be approved in the size of 1 percent in the case of a person using two components of the pension system. One and 0.8 is if two. I suggest you set a percentage to calculate the pension, to calculate. Percentage of salary to calculate a pension of 1.4 for those who will follow only a solidarity system and 1.2 for those who will use two components of pension systems. I ask you, my fellow Members, to support this amendment, otherwise you and I are exposed to article 22 of the Constitution, which says that legislation cannot be adopted that reduces the level of social protection of the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u167	Thank you. Please, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out a comment on Peter Stepanovich’s proposal, which was not included in this part. I'll remind you that the current Pension Insurance Act does contain a 55 percent rule at a certain rate. However, I would like to remind you all that these percentages were calculated at the time of the basic amount of the contribution to the Pension Fund, which was over 60 percent. If employers today are willing to pay contributions to the Pension Fund to that extent, they can be supported. If they are not willing to pay in this size, then there will be another way to implement this standard proposed by Peter Stepanovich, we will again be doomed to set an upper limit on the pension. And this upper limit is not going to be higher than what is planned to be introduced on July 1st is not going to be more than 150 dollars. So we're actually supporting this proposal, and we're keeping the basic idea of the bill -- we're taking down the balance in pensions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u169	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, with due consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u170	The committee does not support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u171	Taking into account the exchange of views, I put to the vote Amendment No. 378 on page 81 -- this is the amendment of the national MP Cibenko Petar Stepanovich. [[12:47:22]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Peter Stepanovich, Peter Stepanovich, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u172	Thank you. Next amendment number 481. What are we talking about, fellow believers? The talk is that if the average wage is raised in the previous year, it is proposed to index 20 percent. I think that this standard cannot be maintained because it means that after every five years a pensioner who retired earlier will fall behind the pensioner who retires at that time, exactly twice. That's why we've been through this before. So I suggest you set this percentage by at least 50 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the possibilities for pension indexing are determined by the actual financial state of the pension system as a whole. Therefore, the bill foresees that at least 20 percent of the indexation in relation to the growth of real wages will be achieved. In addition, the loss of a pension will be fully compensated. In this regard, we can consider, in preparation for the third reading, the very norm that says that no less than 20 percent of the real wages increase. If there are financial possibilities, you can also index your pension on a larger scale. But immediately implementing a 50 percent indexation mechanism would be extremely difficult.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u174	Thank you. I am voting on Amendment 481, page 102. [[12:49:48]] For-98 Not accepted. The fourth amendment, Peter Stepanovich, which one? Cibenko microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u175	Thank you. Amendment 1091. I describe it: articles of the law, which record the rules relating to the stockpiling fund, as well as chapters 10, 11 of this law, shall take effect after the payment of pensions under the solidarity system is secured in accordance with the rules laid down in the third paragraph of article 46 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The point is that we have to meet the requirements of the Constitution and only then implement the accumulation component. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u176	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal has not been supported either, because the introduction of the second level of the pension system is foreseen by the adoption by the Supreme Council of a special law in the case of the fulfilment of a set of conditions, including those laid down in the law. In this regard, it is usually possible to talk about the fact that it would be desirable to achieve a state of economy that would allow if the pension was the only source to make it at least a minimum of living. However, this is not supported by the economic possibilities of either the pension system or the economy as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u178	I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 1091 National Deputy Zibenka. This is page 273. [[12:51:48]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Who else insists on their amendments? Infantry National Deputy. What is the correction? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u179	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a procedure. I would ask the National Deputies, all who want to make this law as well as possible, today to make the decision that the Committee is proposing, to make in the second reading, in the third reading, to complete the individual issues, because we will lose the law that they are awaiting today, which is far more progressive and more objective than it was before. And our desire to do it better can ruin it. I propose a vote, a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u180	Thank you. People's MP Rudzkowski, and we're about to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u181	Thank you for your support. Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, there is an offer to send him back for a second reading, because with such gaps he cannot be accepted. People are still in a bad state, and this pensioner law is going to make them miserable.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, this will show that we do not want to adopt the law. It was possible to make adjustments. So let's figure it out. There is a committee proposal: to adopt the law in the second reading, sending the chapters that the rapporteur said were from the committee to the third reading. No objections? Please, Yuri Yehanurov. Well, let's vote eventually. It's just that there won't be another word, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u183	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask for the protocol, article 40, to send for the third reading and in the transitional positions paragraphs 8 and 16 to send for the third reading. This is all about a simplified tax system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u184	Yes, please, Anatoly Frost, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u185	Anatoly Frost, 83 constituency, Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the law is, indeed, fateful, because this is where the share of 13.5 million of our citizens is decided. And it's as easy to accept as we can adopt this law, you probably can't. Look at the results of the vote: 90-98 and so on. Clearly, there are no people in the hall, and we want to adopt this law. So I support the proposal that we should send him to the second ballot again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u186	Thank you. Well, dear colleagues, let's vote after all.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all the discussions that the draft has not been elaborated in detail are of a lesser degree an element of objectivity. Why? Because the year worked, over 800 amendments were made. I therefore ask for the support of the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u188	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee's proposal is clear. We vote in favour of the adoption of the law in the second reading, and we transfer to the third reading the chapters of which the committee head spoke, according to Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov. With this in mind, I am voting on the adoption of the draft law on mandatory government pension insurance in the second reading. Please vote. [[12:55:25]] For 337 Decision taken. Thank you. And there are voices, you see. The draft Act on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code on the Subsequentity of Crimes is being announced for consideration. Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin 501 is yours, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u189	Thank you. I'd like to vote. Dear National Deputies! To implement the Supreme Council Order of May 15, the Committee on Legal Policy revised the draft law on the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Code. This is registration number 1207. You have a table, this bill was introduced by the President of Ukraine. The content of the project is aimed at removing the gaps that have arisen in the current Criminal Procedure Code since the introduction of amendments to it by the Ukrainian Act of 12 July 2001. Upon the return of the bill, all the factions also discussed the committees. The Committee agreed with the comments of the Chief Legal Office, leaving the defendants under articles 331 and 332 of the Criminal Code." The Security Service's investigators alone." I will remind you that these articles provided for responsibility for crossing the border and for organizing illegal border crossings. On the basis of what I reported to the committee, I decided to recommend the adoption of a bill in the second reading and generally as a law. I ask you to vote for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u190	Who insists on their amendments that have not been taken into account? None. I'm voting on the adoption of the draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code in second reading and in general as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u191	The committee's asking for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u192	This is 1207-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u193	Please support the committee. [[12:57:26]] For 336 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the responsibility of persons for malfunctioning automated systems is under consideration. Reporter to the head of the Committee of Jury Anatoliyovich Karmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill, it's on one page only, commits this crime to the Ukrainian Security Service. None of the authorities concerned with the investigation of other crimes objected. I emphasize that the Criminal Procedure Code provides that, in any case, the prosecutor's orders can take any case for investigation. We suggest, the committee proposes. No comment was received on this bill. That's exactly what we're doing in the table that we gave. And as a result of the discussion, the committee decided to invite the Supreme Council to adopt this bill on second reading and generally as a law. Nor did the principal legal administration comment on the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on the responsibility of persons for violating automated systems on second reading and generally as a law. This is number 2034. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u196	The committee is asking for the support of this law. Carmagine votes. [[12:59:10]] For 332
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u197	The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Pension Insurance for Industrial Workers is being announced for consideration. We accepted it as a law in general. Please, head of the committee Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag. Let's go now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, the bill deals with the situation of those who work underground in the coal sector. What's the point? You know the mines are going into restructuring today. And a person has to work 20 years to retire on the first list. Ten, I'm sorry. The latrine, going to restructuring under existing legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u199	Let's make some adjustments, don't talk about the law, it's already been discussed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u200	No, just one order. Everything that was proposed was taken into account because it was going into the topic. Its essence is once again to ensure that people working underground have the right to retire on the first list.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u201	I am voting on the adoption of a second reading and, as a whole, as a law, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act on employees of coal-fired enterprises. This is 2045. All adjustments are included. [[13:00:46]] For 297 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Professional Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees for Their Activities is being announced for consideration. Reporter to the head of the committee, Leonid Mikhailovich Vernigor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u202	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Social Policy and Work suggests that the proposed law be considered in a second reading. You may remember that just recently we considered it and concluded that at last our unions, as in all of civil Europe, would not register but legalize. This law takes into account all the amendments made by the people's deputies, brings it all into the single norm of the Law on Trades, Rights, Guarantees of Their Activities, and therefore I propose to adopt it in a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u203	Is there no objection? I am voting on the second reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Professional Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees for Their Activities. [[13:02:06]] For 186 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u204	Then I ask someone why the adjustments are taken into account. If there's not enough, let's get some new ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u205	Clearly, you've seen it. Ladies and gentlemen, who insists on their amendments that have not been taken into account? One was not counted. I am voting on the second reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Professional Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees of Activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u206	Please be supportive. [[13:02:53]] For 236
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u207	For 236, the decision is made.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u208	I suggest we take it in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u209	The committee's proposal is to adopt this project as a law as a whole. I'm betting on a vote on adoption as a whole as a law, this is number 2563. [[13:03:20]] For 244 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u210	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u211	The draft Act amending the Law on Collective Agreements and Agreements of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[new editor]] Vassil Georgiyovich Hara, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, you remember that, following the collapse of the consideration of this project on 3 April, our committee, in agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers, trade unions and employers, established a working group that addressed all contentious issues and submitted more than a month late the proposal of the people's deputies. In fact, in violation of the regulations, the Committee considered at its meeting on second reading and, in the vast majority, made a compromise decision in favour of the proposal of the people's deputies, Kabmin and employers. 134 proposals have been further considered, but over 200 have been considered and almost 200 have been taken into account. The Committee took a final decision on all matters and requests that the bill be adopted on second reading and in general. And please follow the second reading procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u213	Who among the national deputies insists on their amendments? I'm gonna go get some repairs. 8 Amendment, Kosovo People's Deputy. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Let's move on. 13. People's deputy Volintz. Is he insisting? Oh, no? He insists, please turn the Volintz on. No, it's not. Yes, 16. The volunteer insists on the 16th amendment? Oh, Volintz is taking off his repairs. Peter Petrovich Toloczko, Amendment 18, insists? No, it's not. 20th Amendment. Is he insisting? So let's just go this way. Who insists on their amendments that are not taken into account? National MP, Mother, please. What an amendment you have to make right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u214	I proposed a decision in which to adopt this law, but in addition to articles 12, 18, 22 and 23, which will be considered on the third reading. That's it. And the employer's board is offering.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u215	Thank you. I think that's the way it is for the people's honourable deputies. We first vote on the proposals in order of coming, that is, the proposal of the committee. If the committee's proposal doesn't pass, we'll consider yours. Right? Who else insists on their amendments? I'm voting for acceptance in the second reading -- second reading, please listen carefully! - draft law amending the law of Ukraine on collective agreements and agreements. [[new editor]] The Cabinet of Ministers project. Please vote. [[13:06:16]] For-146 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u216	Then the bill is shot as if it wasn't bought.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u217	No, it's not. And so let's vote now. There is another draft decision to adopt, on second reading, a draft law amending the law of Ukraine on collective agreements and agreements, except for articles to be transposed for third reading: 12, 18, 22, 23. [[new editor]] I'm putting this motion to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u218	Vladimir Mikhailovich, one second. Dear colleagues, in explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u219	Please withdraw from the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, I beg your pardon. We've made this law much worse, made it non-binding. They removed rules that caused some kind of contradiction. The Committee will not go, and I give you my word on behalf of the committee, to satisfy the ambitions of the individual. There's no such thing. We must adopt a law for the State, not for the integration of employers and for another individual MP. I therefore propose not to support this proposal and adopt the law on second reading and in general. We've been looking at it all year.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u221	Ladies and gentlemen, I have voted once again on the proposal for the adoption of the draft law on collective agreements and registers in second reading, moving to the third reading of articles 12, 18, 22, 23. And then we'll be in the session room to figure out what kind of proposals. [[13:07:47]] For-141
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u222	Vladimir Mihajlovich, I'll ask you to put it again on second reading, then generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u223	I put it to a vote, please pay attention, and I point out that this is a project of the Cabinet of Ministers, which has been developed and harmonized. On the second reading of the draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Law on Collective Contracts and Agreements. This is Number 1042, the project is aligned. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u224	At the meeting of the Committee, all parties agreed to adopt the draft, without exception. [[13:08:23]] For-153
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u225	For -153. I'm voting for a second reading of this bill. [[13:08:44]] For 185
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u226	For - 153 (?) Ladies and gentlemen, let's either work or split up. So let's probably count it. Why did no one make a remark yesterday to the Prime Minister that there were no positions? The law is rejected. For reasons, please, Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u227	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you are, yes, a formal or non-formal leader of the majority. If the government is introducing a bill that is needed by those who create an abundance for the millionaires who are sitting in the hall right now, you have to call on these millionaires to uphold this law, otherwise the workers will come to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u228	Thank you. Yuri Yehanurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, I would very much like there to be no insinuation around this bill. The point is that the employer side is not properly represented in the negotiation process during the drafting of the law. There was pressure on one side. And the government went to this pressure. He had to agree. And that's when we go on. I take it the bill is broken. Now, when we work in the future, we take into account the position of employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u230	Thank you, dear colleagues. Project rejected. A draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on licensing and export control, import of disks for laser reading systems is being announced for consideration. Please, the national deputy of Matthew, the deputy head of the committee. I request the attention of all national deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u231	The distinguished deputies, the distinguished Bureau, the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of Peoples' Economy, Property and Investments introduced a draft law on amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation relating to licensing for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on second reading. Control of exports, import of disks for laser reading systems. I request the attention of the deputies to refer to the table given on second reading. The project had received 48 proposals from the Ukrainian people's deputies. Most of these proposals came from the Pavlovsky people's representative, who is not in the sick room today, and we were unable to hear him on the committee and listen to his comments. The proposal is to vote or discuss and vote on proposals. Those who were made by the deputies, including the deputy of Paul, and then make such a decision. If the proposals of the deputies are to be made, then we will have to cancel the decision to adopt the law on first reading at all, because all the amendments relate to the changes made on first reading. If no proposals are made, then the first reading should be drafted as a whole, i.e. the second column of the table should be voted on. Decision to take on the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u232	Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u233	Boris Bespaly, "our Ukraine", the Ukrainian People's Party. Well, I don't know who did the statistics there, who more or less did, I agree with Michael Antonovich's amendments, well, me and mine have their own half of the table here. The table today, in my opinion, is only given, the right column is not available, the question is very controversial. Well, I do have the impression that we're not ready to look at this project in the session room right now, it's a project that deals with financial issues. So I think the committee might be in favour of this proposal: moving the consideration of this bill to the next sessional day. Otherwise we risk simply making any inappropriate decisions out of a voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u234	Well, personally, I think it's acceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u235	Ladies and gentlemen, if we now begin to vote on all 46 amendments, first of all, we will vote all day, secondly, we will change this law until we don't recognize it. So the suggestion is to go back to his consideration, let the committee re-examine all the amendments for the next Thursday when we have the plenary week. No objections? A draft amendment law is being announced for consideration. That's how we get him. There's no law anymore. What? There is a commission of the committee, there are amendments made by the people's deputies, and the committee of the next day, plenary week, when the vote is due, will express its attitude towards each amendment. And by that time, we'll be making decisions. A draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s laws on the opening and functioning of bank accounts is being announced for consideration. Kaputin Viktor Volodymyrovich, first deputy head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u236	Dear National Deputies! The second reading was not amended by the National Deputies, with the exception of one proposal from the Masenka People's Deputy, which should not be considered as an amendment, since it refers to the fact that our colleague objects to the adoption of this bill. Therefore, this amendment could not be accepted because it did not meet the regulatory standard in terms of its formulation. The committee's proposal to accept it in a second reading and in general, because this bill regulates the opening of correspondence accounts by banks and financial institutions, and that is important. Thank you. Please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u237	Dear National Deputies! You've heard the committee's information, we have every reason to put to the vote, to adopt a second reading as a whole, as a law, a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on opening and operating bank accounts. Please vote. [[13:15:37]] For 272 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft law amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the order of settlement in foreign currency is being announced for consideration. The reporter again, Kaputin Viktor Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u238	Dear National Deputies! These are changes to article 6 of this law, which has to do with force major circumstances that may arise in the execution of contracts between Ukrainian and foreign, foreign firms. And which may relate to the extension of the period of return of the foreign exchange to our country. During the first and second reading, two amendments were made by Deputy Sharov, who was rejected by the committee. The deputy Sharov suggested that the formulation of force majeure should be specified, and the committee decided that there was no need to specify the term in the law. This term is specified in a contract between the parties, and it is not the subject of a legislative arrangement. And the second amendment of the National MP Tsushka is included. If our colleague Sharov does not insist on voting on his amendment, he suggests putting it right on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u239	Igor Fedorovich, are you insisting on your amendment? Oh, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u240	Then on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u241	I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Settlements in Foreign Currency. This is document number 3089. In the second reading and generally as a law, a document is voted upon. [[13:17:29]] For 263 Decision taken. The law is passed. A draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on combating illegal interference with the electricity network is being announced for consideration. National MP Crook, please, deputy head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u242	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. This bill is considered in the Committee on Construction, Transport and Communications. Six amendments have been made, very substantial, good amendments, and they have all been adopted. The Committee therefore proposes that the bill be adopted on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u243	Is there no objection? I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on combating illegal interference with electricity networks. This is document number 1031. Please vote. [[13:18:41]] For 361 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of production and the use of precious metals and precious stones and the control of transactions with them in accordance with inter-State standards is being announced for consideration. Budzigan Philip Philipovich is a member of the Committee on Economic Policy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u244	The Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment recommends, in a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Control of Production and Use of Precious Metals, Precious Stones and Operation Control, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 20 February 2003. The point is that no comments have been made, no changes have been made to the second reading of this bill. The committee therefore proposes to adopt the bill in second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u245	I would like to vote on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of production and the use of precious metals and precious stones and the control of transactions with them with regard to bringing them into line with national standards. [[No. 2107]] Please vote. [[13:20:18]] For 384 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Postal Law is being announced for consideration. Reporter to the committee's deputy head, National Deputy Crook, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u246	Dear colleagues! This law has also been considered before us in the Committee, two amendments have been made and they have been suppressed. The Committee therefore requests that the bill be adopted on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u247	I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and, in general, as a law, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Postal Law. This is document number 1152. Please vote. [[13:21:15]] For 315 The law is passed. The draft Law on the Write-off of Unpaid Volumes of Natural Gas is being announced for consideration. Reporter Mikola Mikolaiovich Rudzkowski, member of the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u248	Dear National Deputies! This question was discussed last week. The comments made by the National Deputies regarding the refinement of the write-offs, which enterprises will undergo, are clearly stated in the law and are only state enterprises. And it only applies to the write-offs of state-owned enterprises and local budgets. And so is the population. And so I'm asking, given what the committee has considered, I've considered virtually all the amendments with the people's deputies who have proposed their amendments we've agreed on, they have no insistence on this bill. I ask you to put him to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u249	Boris Bespali, please, with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u250	Boris Bespaly, Our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear reporter! I have a literal question with a motive, and it's a very simple question. How did it happen that my proposals, on time, did not get to the table at all, and how is that even possible? That's not the first time. You can explain that. Did you not like something? What other reasons?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u251	Dear Mr. Bespaliy, all the proposals made to the committee on time were discussed at the committee meeting. The question is, if you haven't been sent to the apparatus, please, it's a question of the machine's work, but it's working now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u252	I'm asking the Secretariat to conduct an investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u253	does not refer to.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u254	Investigating on this subject and providing information to me. Why did this happen? I'm voting on a proposal for a second-reading committee and generally as a bill for a bill to write off the value of unpaid amounts of natural gas. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u255	One point is what. enters into force from the moment the law is signed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u256	This is 2413-1. Please vote. [[13:23:51]] For-300 The law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u257	In general, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u258	So I put it in my second reading and generally as a law. He's a law-abiding man. For the reasons of the people’s deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u259	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you how a law that affects the income part of the budget can take effect immediately after signing? You obviously understand that it's breaking both the Budget Code and breaking the State Budget Act and we can't vote for it. So I would now ask the drafters to make changes here, taking into account this, or then express the government's view of how the government will react to what the budget gap will be, and who will account for who this gap will be. Will it again be at the expense of pensioners, teachers, tuberculosis, and cancer patients? Let the government make a statement. This is a very serious decision, Vladimir Mikhailovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u260	The thing is, I'm here with you, and maybe I'd agree, I need to study this. But the law is passed. A draft law on arbitral tribunals is being announced for consideration. [[arbitration]] [[resecond reading]] Is there a report, Onichuk Mikola? Oh, there is. Mikola Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u261	Dear colleagues, Your Honor, your opinion is proposed by the law on arbitral tribunals. You know, we've been discussing it recently, and we've returned it to read it again. Kamenem, let's say, the stumbling point was whether or not the International Commercial Arbitration Court would be governed by this law at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The committee considered this position and removed from the draft law the positions that relate, in particular, to the International Commercial Court of the Chamber of Commerce. Thus today, the barrier that existed at that time has been removed. The only observation that was asked to be taken into account is that it is reflected in the draft law, Mr. Stretovich, is that this law does not extend to the work of the International Commercial Court. TPT in the third article of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u262	Who insists on amendments made by those national deputies whose amendments have not been taken into account? I can't see.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u263	The committee's decision is to recommend the law to approve in second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u264	I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and generally as a bill of the bill on arbitral tribunals, arbitration. This is document number 1347. [[13:27:03]] For 237 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u265	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u266	A draft law to amend the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Populations from Infectious Diseases on protection against diseases common to humans and animals is under consideration. Mikola Efremovich Polishchuk, Head of the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u267	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill was approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on April 3, 2003. It is called upon to regulate legislatively a number of issues related to the world’s spread of a new group of infectious diseases that are caused by altered proteins called spryons. The designated disease class is common to animals and humans and has no visual barriers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u268	Let's make amends, Mikola Efremovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u269	I mean, there were two amendments. The first amendment was part of the first article, which was fully considered. And there was an adjustment to the final positions, and it was also completely taken into account. The committee considers the project and recommends that it be adopted in a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u270	It says here: In the second reading and in general as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u271	And generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u272	Then, if there's no objection, I'm proposing to the adoption committee in the second reading and in general as a bill of the bill of amendment to the Ukrainian Act on the Protection of Populations from Infectious Diseases on the Protection of Human and Animal Diseases. This is document number 2656. [[13:28:37]] For 388 The law is passed. A draft law amending the Banking and Banking Act is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Victor Volodymyrovich Kapusin, the first deputy head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u273	Ladies and gentlemen, this law deals with the subordination of the monitoring boards of internal audit banks. The committee made a unanimous decision. Among the first and second readings came an amendment — the National Deputy of Vasyunika, which in fact envisions the decision to refer the matter to the congregations of shareholders of banks. The committee did not support this amendment. If the National MP Vasjunik does not insist on her vote, I propose that I vote in favour of this law in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u274	For reasons, please, Cherniak Vladimir Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u275	Dear colleagues, I am in favour of adopting this bill, but I would like to take this opportunity, as a member of the board of directors of the savings bank, to draw your attention to the fact that the boards of observation are not working, and very many of the issues that need to be decided, they are not deciding, and the hopes we have in them are not justified. So I would like us to pay attention to this and ask those deputies that we delegate to the board of directors to work effectively and to defend the interests of Ukraine, the interests of our people, our electorates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u276	I ask the Secretariat to prepare a commission for the Committee on Finance and Banks to review the work of those monitoring boards where the delegated national deputies of the Supreme Council, and we could then consider and respond accordingly. With the motives of Mikola Kravchenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u277	Cowchenko. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, the thing is, I wouldn't be so grumpy. With respect to Mr. Cherniak, I am also a member of the Savings Supervisory Board. And it is not correct that the members of the Observation Board do not do. I would, Vladimir Mihajlovich, give you a slightly different commission, I would ask you to give a different commission, not how the people's deputies participate in this, but how they work, i.e. the schedule and so on. Why? Because people's deputies don't want to work, delegates don't want to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u278	Thank you. I am asking you to prepare an assignment with precision. It may take someone to determine how well a person works.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u279	It is this bill that will stimulate the work of the monitoring boards. Then I propose to vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u280	Ladies and gentlemen, since we support the committee's proposal here, I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, the bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Banking and Banking for the Implementation of Observational Councils. This is document number 2386. Please vote. [[13:32:04]] For 354 The law is passed. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on how to pay taxpayers' tax liabilities to budgetary and state-owned trust funds is announced for consideration. Viktor Sergiyovich Gorbachev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u281	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished President! On second reading, we are considering a bill on how taxpayers'obligations to budgets and public trust funds should be repaid. There are several amendments here, a number of which have been discussed in our committee. We have not fully come to a conclusion on any issue. And for your consideration, I propose a second amendment immediately, as my first amendment, and I don't insist on it. I think let's start with the second amendment. What does the second amendment say? It concerns, like the whole law, this part of the law on indirect methods. I mean, the tax office does checks on enterprises and indirect methods that are in this law. It's not documentation, let's say they can't find a business, there's no note, they're not. The methodology that is now approved by the DPA is taxed. I propose that this methodology in my second amendment be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers and by the Professional Committee. On the first reading, I want to remind you that we adopted the law on first reading, the methodology was defined by law. I request that the second amendment be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u282	I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 2 of the People's Deputies of Gorbachev. [[13:33:46]] For a hundred and It's not working.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u283	The second amendment we have herehina, returns the third. The same, in the same sequence as, I say, my methodology is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers and the Professional Committee of the Supreme Council. But since the submission of the Ukrainian Tax Administration. Please vote on the third amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u284	Not the third, the fourth.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u285	No, it's Terehina's third amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u286	Amendment three is counted, so there is no need to vote on it. Your fourth amendment, do you insist on it? It's partially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u287	Yeah. What's the point of my fourth amendment is that when tax services are charged at the firm when the check is carried out. Methods, then, tax inspectors agree with business directors. I believe there is now pressure on the directors of the tax services. Therefore, in fact, the Director is signed to ensure that there is no further chronometer of verification, I believe that the Tax Administration should be responsible for this, to submit its own charges to the court and to prove itself in court. Please vote on the fourth amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u288	I'm putting to the vote amendment number four, National Deputy Gorbachev. [[13:35:11]] For 270. Correction counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u289	The rest are included in principle, then I ask to vote on this law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u290	I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and in general as the bill of the law amending the Ukrainian Act on how to pay taxpayers' obligations to budgets and state trust funds to apply non-direct methods of determining tax liabilities. This is document number 1127-1. [[13:35:53]] For three hundred The law is passed. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff on the size of individual goods and products is being announced for consideration. Reporter to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Vasil Petrovich Cuzko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u291	Dear colleagues, this is the Zarubinsky and Katerinczuk Bill of Deputies, we have adopted them on our first reading of the duty on dolls. So, with the consent of the authors and the committee, and there is a decision of the Customs Tariff Council, so these laws are combined and proposed, the amendment is taken into account, it is technical, it is proposed to adopt the law on second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u292	Is there no objection? I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the bill amending the customs tariff of Ukraine on the size of individual goods and products. Please vote. [[13:37:07]] For 299 The law is passed. A draft law on the completion of the construction of the Croat Mining Coal is announced for consideration. Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u293	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. It's a unique case: you don't have a second reading document under this bill because it's a committee meeting because it's a very difficult question. I would like to remind you that on November 28, 2002, on our first reading, we adopted a bill that was drafted by members of our committee. The task of the bill was to remove the complications of the international community, which resulted from the fact that no one was working on the project. Ukraine’s budget allocates small amounts each year to support workers who are there at a company that is not built by GOKORI. It's where everything is protected. The members of our committee were there, watching everything, and everything is kept there. But it takes billions of dollars to build it. There is no Ukrainian budget for money.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u294	Dear Yuri Ivanovich, I apologize.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u295	That's why there's an offer. This morning, we finally reached agreement with the government, with the minister, that the observation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Legal Authority will be extended together in a working group within a week that the formal agreement of the State Property Fund will, in principle, be given to this bill. Direct work on the bill will be completed within the next week. We're taking it to the 19th.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u296	Dear National Deputies! There is no subject for discussion now. I'd like to ask your support that we have an interesting situation. The committee is not considering a bill, the government is insisting on this bill, so that next plenary week we will consider this bill and make decisions, and now we will just be doing empty chats. Do we have a deal? Please, Yuri Rafailovich Yukhnovsky with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u297	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! That's an old question. But the key to solving this issue is to form a joint stockholder company with the participation of countries that have made their contributions. If we don't have a stock company like this, we're going to lose on this whole thing, and the law is going to take that into account. And so. The creation of a shareholder company with the participation of the states that have contributed is the first prerequisite for considering something with the GOCOR.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u298	Thank you. Dear colleagues! You get the offer, don't you? Please consider the committee. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine and the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 07.03, has been announced for consideration. In 2003 A reporter from the State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice or already a deputy minister, it's hard for us to identify. Alexander Mikhailovich Pasenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u299	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Law of March 7, 2003, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has one article, 248, bearing the badge 7 of the CDC, in which the third, fourth, fifth part is presented in the new edition. These are the parts of the article that have been proposed by the President. What is the point of this proposal? These parts of article 248, under badge 7, provide for responsibility for failure to execute and a deliberate failure to execute a judicial decision. However, the established responsibility of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code for failure to comply with court decisions is not subject to the regulation of this law. Yes, in the absence of a court order, the order and the conditions for the execution of a court order are the law of enforcement. Article 382 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code provides for a very severe punishment for a deliberate failure to execute a court decision. A job release is a disciplinary exercise that is provided for by the Labour Code and cannot be applied as a diss. As a result, make suggestions to the President, offering parts 3, 4, 5 of Article 248 under badge 7 and Article 2 of the law to exclude. These proposals were made on a profile committee. They have received support and the committee also proposes to support the President's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u300	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin from the committee
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u301	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Legal Policy considered, at its meeting, the President's proposals for a law amending the Civil Procedure Code and the Labour Code. The committee decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to enact the above-mentioned law, taking into account all the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council has no comments on the project. You're given a comparative table that only takes into account the President's proposals, so I'm saying right now that those proposals of the national deputies that we've been making, we haven't included in the proposal, because we didn't have the right, because the procedure only involves making proposals to the President. You're given these tables on six sheets, they're in front of you. The committee is calling for a vote. Pasenyuk and I have a legal position here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u302	Dear National Deputies! All the President's proposals are taken into account, and the committee has agreed to these proposals. So we can put the adoption in a new version of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine and the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u303	It's a committee decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u304	The committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u305	By the way, there's going to be an exception to the title and the Labour Code. [[13:44:06]] For 319
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u306	For 319, the decision is made.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u307	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u308	Let's move on to the section "Decision from the Issues under discussion." These are the questions that we discussed in the preceding days. A draft Act on the return of privatized property to state and municipal property is being announced for consideration. Please, Vladimir Josephovich Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u309	The discussion of the draft law on the Supreme Council in the Committee showed that the majority of the deputies were in favour of adopting such a law on first reading. The Committee therefore proposes the adoption, on first reading, of a law, a project on the return of privatized property to public and utility property as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u310	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law on the Return of Privatized Property to State and Municipal Property, which is document number 3165. Please vote. [[13:45:25]] For-191 Ladies and gentlemen, we've discussed this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u311	It's a strange situation. During the discussion, no MP objected to the bill. The bill is introduced by the Government. The majority, which supports the Government, does not vote in favour of the law passed by the Government. It's a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u312	I'm voting for adoption on the basis of the draft law on the return of privatized property to state and municipal property. Please vote. [[13:46:13]] For 258. Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act on the State Privatization Programme is being announced for consideration. Vladimir Josephovich Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u313	The Committee on Economic Policy, Management of Peoples, Property and Investment considered at its meeting the programme proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, the State Privatization Programme and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the project be returned to the Government for finalization and re-reading. There is a view of the Special Commission on Privatization on the same subject. In discussing the majority of deputies, it was also suggested that such legislation and the State Privatization Programme should not be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u314	The distinguished national MPs are also the National Deputy Costinuk's project on the inadmissibility of the project. In accordance with the Rules, we will vote in this order. The first is the proposal of the national deputy Kostinyuk. The second is the proposal for acceptance as a basis, the Cabinet of Ministers' proposal. And the third is going to be the committee's proposal. Right? I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Privatization Program, which is document number 3172/p1 of the People's Deputy of Kostinuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u315	For. [[13:48:02]] For 193
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u316	The 193 decision is not taken. I'm voting for acceptance as a basis. I say again, 226, read the Rules. I am voting on the basis of the draft law on the State Privatisation Programme. Number 3172. Please vote. [[13:48:39]] For 171 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the committee's proposal. This is a decision to adopt a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine under number 3172/p on the return to the draft Ukrainian law on the state privatization programme. Now, logically, if you don't accept it, you have to go back. [[13:49:15.]] For 229 Decision taken. Thank you. Budagyanz is a national MP. In factions, please provide information.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u317	Dear People's Deputies, the fact that yesterday it was quite fair to criticize the fact that there was a point in this law in which the Government, while surrounding the Supreme Council, had the right to set up enterprises that were to be privatized. We are here today, let us say, if we approve, and tomorrow, what is not to be privatized will be taken up and introduced for unclear reasons. I therefore propose to add that, without the Supreme Council, no one has the right to submit to the enterprise privatization project.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u318	Thank you. Dear colleague! Enter a document in writing. We'll take it up to the committee. The committee will make its decision. We'll vote then. A draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation is being announced for consideration to ensure that environmental requirements are taken into account in the privatization process. We've literally been looking at it for days, and the committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. Is there no objection? You don't? I am voting on the basis of the draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure that environmental requirements are taken into account in the privatization process. Please vote. [[13:51:08]] For 276 Decision taken. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Property Rights Objects that Are Not Privatized is being announced for consideration. Yes, please, Vladimir Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u319	We have six bills here, and they relate to individual privatization facilities, so there is a proposal to vote them separately. 2405 is a project introduced by the National MP of Skomorowski that is proposed to delete two sites from the list: the Vinnick State Design Institute of Technology and the Specialized Design Office for the Automation of Management Systems and Production Processes in the Food Industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u320	We discussed it, Vladimir Josephovich. They have these documents, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u321	The Committee decided to invite the Supreme Council to vote in favour of the adoption of the Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u322	Based on the whole thing, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u323	Yes, on the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u324	I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u325	There's an objection. There was an objection from Deputy Petrov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u326	Deputy Petrov, please. Well, we vote separately when it comes to you. Dear national deputies, we discussed it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u327	That's not what Perov was involved. No, Petrov Victor Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u328	Peter, the Communist faction, I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u329	The point is that when Skomorowski spoke and in the documents he filed, there was a forgery. Neither the labour force of the Institute nor the district administration, nor the State Property Fund, the regional office, have provided any positive conclusions on the privatization of these facilities. Moreover, the labour force sent a protest to the Supreme Council yesterday and was outraged that Skomarovsky was pursuing his personal goals, seeking to privatize.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u330	Thank you. Turn off the microphone. I would ask, honourable national MPs, is the right of the legislative initiative of the MP, he filed, let's be determined. There's no need to agitate. Deputy Skomarowski. We can't all be like this. We can't be like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u331	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! I don't know why he doesn't like me, it's his personal, but when there's an address there was one governor, then another. There were five appeals to the Regional State Property Fund. Two committees were considered, and a committee of national deputies was on its way. I looked at the Committee on Agrarian Politics and there were no comments by the Economic Policy Committee. And this is where he wants me for the second time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u332	Thank you. All of it. Please, Vladimir Josephovich, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u333	Today, the facsimile committee received a message from a working group signed by the leader. They confirm that they have funding, they have an order, they are a working group, and they ask not to adopt the draft decision proposed by Deputy Skomarowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u334	Taking all these proposals into account, I am voting for adoption on the basis of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Property Rights Objects Unprivatized. At number 2405. Ladies and gentlemen, we're about to take the floor, you've spoken and you've expressed your point of view. We discussed this yesterday, more specifically on Tuesday. [[13:54:45]] For-141 Project rejected. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u335	Draft Law 2405-1 introduced by the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Seminouk Valentina Petrovna. The Committee proposes that it be adopted as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u336	I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis and as a whole a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized, as number 2405-1. This is the Semenyuk People's Deputy Project. [[13:55:30.]] For 290 The law is passed. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u337	Draft Law 2405-2, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Committee proposes that the draft law be rejected and that the Cabinet of Ministers be sent back for finalization.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u338	Please proceed with the procedure of the People's Deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u339	Matvienkov, 55th District. Dear colleagues, I propose such an option. If this is in agreement with the Government, in agreement with the Mine Fund and with the Committee, if this bill is put to a vote, I ask that the paragraph in section two be removed from there, in the area of Donetsk, those enterprises that are listed for privatization by the Donetsk State Chemical Plant, No. 00194719. It's a chemical manufacturing plant of the Illic combination that is currently producing churches. We agreed on this today with both the Property Fund and the Ministry of Economics. So I'm going to ask you to confirm that this factory is being removed from the list, so to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u340	That question could be resolved if we now vote against the draft law passed by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u341	Please, Deputy Stacks. National deputy of Stacks, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u342	Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that the list of property rights that are not privatized comes directly out of the national privatization programme, because we have not supported the national privatization programme, it is impossible for government bills to vote now at all, and they must be removed from the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u343	I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Objects of State Property Rights that Are Not Privatized. It's a government bill number 2405-2. On the ground, please vote. [[13:57:48]] For-164 Project rejected. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u344	Draft Law 2405-4, introduced by Kosovo. Suggests the inclusion of the Lviv State University for the Design of Petroleum and Petroleum Enterprises, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office supports its adoption on first reading. The Committee also supported the proposal on first reading. I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u345	So, how did we vote that there were no objections, on the whole, or how?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u346	Yes, on the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u347	I am voting on the adoption as a basis and as a whole on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Property Rights Objects, which are not privatized under the heading 2405-4. [[Project of the People's Deputy, Kosinova]] [[13:58:45.]] For 176 Project rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u348	Draft Act introduced by Karmazin, the People's Deputy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u349	With motive? National MP to Kosovo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u350	Dear fellow national MPs! This bill was discussed on two committees: the Committee on Economic Policy and the Committee on Energy Policy. All the deputies voted unanimously in favour. This project is supported by the Regional Administration, the City Administration, the Labour Team and the Scientific and Methodic Department of the Supreme Council. I don't understand why he doesn't get support in this room. There are absolutely no premeditations for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u351	I put to the vote on adoption as a basis and as a whole the draft Law for the 2405-4 People’s Deputies of Kosovo on the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization. Please determine by vote. [[14:00:17]] For 228 Decision taken. Next up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u352	Draft Law 2405-5 by the People's Deputy Karmazin. Suggests listing No. 1 of the Odessa State Agricultural Commission. The Committee proposes to support the bill introduced by Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u353	I am voting for the adoption of a proposal by the Committee on Admission as a basis and as a whole for a draft law under the number 2405-5 of National Deputy Carmazin amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Objects of State Property Rights that Are Not Privatized. [[14:01:14]] For 350. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u354	Draft 2405-8 by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Committee on Economic Policy proposes to reject the draft law. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u355	I'll put the vote in order of arrival. The first is the proposal for acceptance as a basis and as a whole, and then we're going to be able to figure it out. I'm voting on acceptance as a basis and as a whole on the 2405-8 project on amending the Ukrainian Act on List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized. It's a government bill. Please vote. [[14:02:06]] For 209 The decision is not taken. Project rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u356	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-05-m0.u357	Yes, thank you, too. It's being announced. Oh, it's true. [[B in m in s a l in]] The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. Ladies and gentlemen, please be in the session room at 4:00.
