ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u1	People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:04:37]] Registered -430 A total of 430 national deputies were registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we continue to consider matters of the order of the day. We're moving on to a simplified procedure. A draft Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations on Conditions of Competition is being announced for consideration. Project registration number 3321. Reporter is temporarily acting as Minister of Education and Science, Andriy Mikolayovich. I remind you of our motive for consideration. We're looking at it in a simplified mode. Andrew Mikolaiovich, please. Reported to the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Orzhachovsky Anatoly Volodymyrovich. Please be prepared. Please, Andrew Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u2	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies. Your opinion is on the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 36 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government. The essence of these changes that are proposed in article 36 is to refer the heads of educational institutions assigned to the post for the competition to the number of those appointed without agreement with the head of the relevant local government administration. As you well know, as of today, the appointment of heads of vocational and technical higher education institutions, vocational and technical institutions, as well as higher education institutions, is carried out through competitive selection. And this is regulated by an article. Article 24 of the Ukrainian Vocational and Technical Education Act and article 39 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. And these elections have to take place on democratic ground. Therefore, the acceptance of candidates from the local administration who have already been selected for the competition is a nonsensus and raises questions about the relevance and objectivity of competitive selection. With this in mind, changes have been made to the law. Let's guess. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u3	Or questions to Andriy Mikolaiovich? Short cut, that's right. So Anatoly Volodymyrovich. Thank you, Andrey Mikolayovich, sit down, please. Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Governmental Affairs, Anatoly Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u4	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on 14 May 2003 reviewed the draft Law of Ukraine amending article 36, paragraph 2, on local government administrations introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, registration number 3321. The bill foresees the need for managers of educational institutions to be appointed to the number of those appointed without agreement with the head of the relevant local government administration. According to the current wording, part 2 of article 36 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations, managers of enterprises, institutions and organizations belonging to the administration of ministries and other central executive bodies shall be appointed and released from office in agreement with the head of the relevant local government administration. However, these positions are not in line with the standards of the valid laws of Ukraine that were adopted in our Hall, on education, on higher education, on vocational and technical education, according to which PTU managers and higher education institutions are chosen on the basis of competition or on the basis of elections without any agreement. With a view to resolving this issue, the Cabinet of Ministers is introducing a bill to Parliament. The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, after considering the draft bill, proposes that the first reading should be based on it. So our main scientific and expert management, in its conclusion, also supports this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u5	Thank you, Anatoly Vadimovich. I see. Let's move on to the discussion. I'm reminding you, two in a row, two in a row. Carmazine, please. Yuri Anatolyevich, please. Time is running out.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u6	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The entire text of the bill is twelve words, including the letters "a", "what" and so on, as well as the heads of teaching institutions assigned to the post under the terms of the competition. What else can we do in our second reading? The law should be adopted in both the first and the second readings. That's understandable. Why? Because all the approvals that were governors were to keep school leaders on the hook. And it's clear that the glory of God that we're in the higher education law, in the general education law, in preschool education, in preschool education, in preschool education, in preschool education, didn't do it. Now, while I was in Odessa, I took a delegation from the college of standardization and metrology, a college where people are still learning from that space that is now called EP or SND, and was once called the Soviet Union, and even because of the large one from abroad, they complained that they were taking away their pens at the center of the city and giving them to other educational institutions. I'm going to the minister of education, I'm going to the Prime Minister, and I'm asking you to intervene in this problem, because people are here, people are ready when teachers and students are ready for some sort of campaign. That's not good anymore. With regard to this bill, I stress, first and second readings should be adopted immediately. And speaking by analogy, I would very much like Victor Fedorovich Janukovic to propose the same changes so that nothing can be agreed on both by the law on the police and by the law on the prosecutor's office, so that the secret decrees of the President, which, without the President's law, are in fact helping us to usurp power and maintain it all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u7	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Puzakov, the Communist faction, prepare for the Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u8	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština In the first order of the above-mentioned bill, the main emphasis is on the introduction of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. It should be noted that, in fact, according to the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, there are requirements for managers of third-to-fourth-level education institutions for the first and second levels of accreditation for other requirements. But the whole procedure for the appointment of the above - mentioned leaders is clearly set out in the aforementioned law of Ukraine. So if the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopts the proposed bill, it will, in turn, entail changes to other laws governing educational activities. Today, in every law that has been mentioned in Ukraine that regulates the legal relationship of the leaders with regard to their assignments, it is clearly indicated by the type of education. If the amendment to article 36 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations is adopted, local authorities and local authorities will lose horizontal control of the activities of educational institutions, which, as always, has been a deterrent to the use of clout by the heads of educational institutions and central authorities. If this law is passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, no head of administration or city or village head will be able to influence the educational process. The central authorities will draw the frame any way they want. From here, we're going to start with an even greater flow of footage and stuff like that. As you recall, Vladimir Ilchi Lenin wrote that the principle of double subordination should be in all structures. This standard has been proved for decades. And once it is broken, it will be very difficult to rebuild. But there is another subtext in the proposed changes. If the proposed bill is adopted to ensure that successful elections are held in 2004, the total deployment of its personnel may begin through its ministers, Heads of State Committees and others, especially in areas that, according to the current leadership of the State, may result in an unfavourable result. As a result, on one wonderful day the governor, head of the district government, may wake up and learn that he already has a new prosecutor or new chief of police appointed without his consent and knowledge and who are already knocking on his door with a warrant for their arrest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u9	Thank you. Nigga, I can see there's no place. Vassil Pavlovitch Bartkova's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u10	Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. The project proposes to complement part two of article 36 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations with a phrase that is based on only one logical formula: heads of educational institutions assigned to the post for the competition, to the number of those appointed without agreement with the head of the relevant local government administration. If we look at this innovation in the context of the harmonization of the Law on Local State Administrations with the legislation governing educational processes in the state, we should agree that the substitution of posts by competitive selection does not mean any agreement with the officials of the local public administrations, because this will question the logic and objectivity of the elections and the competition itself. However, if we look at the problem more broadly, we will conclude that such reconciliation is not likely to be with the local authorities. Today, however, the standard set out in article 29 (b) of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine continues to apply. It states that the executive bodies of rural, rural, urban councils are subject to delegated authority, such as agreement in the established order for candidates to be appointed directors of enterprises, institutions, and organizations located in the respective territory. If we follow a systematic approach to solving the problem, we also need to abolish this standard. Let us now turn to our legislation on local government administrations and local self - government. There are now 7 projects in Parliament that deal with changes to the individual provisions of the second law and three projects concerning the first law. So whether we need to spend time each time adopting fragmented laws. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the proposed project is government, and I think that Kabmin could work on developing legislation that doesn't hurt a hole, but that would help systematically, saving time to block the gaps and contradictions in the legislative array. In addition, there is a bill under registration number 3322, which similarly addresses the appointment of heads of educational institutions. The best way to do that is to develop this project, taking into account the need for parallel adjustment and the law on local self-government, by merging all these bills into a single comprehensive document that needs to be submitted for second reading. And this is the standard I propose in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u11	Thank you. Insomnia. Incorruptible, missing. Chernobyl, "Our Ukraine." Tarasse Viačeslavovich, v.? Among those who sign up, who is against it? We still have one. Melniczuk, please turn on the microphone, the socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u12	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region I listened carefully to the speeches of the national MPs in discussing the bill. I'm surprised you, dear friends. The point is that those competitive commissions are appointed by the head of the appropriate local government administration. And today, if a person is to be employed in a business venture, he must be interviewed. If "dad" said "normal," then the competition commission automatically made a decision. So we think in vain that with this rule of law we will have democracy in the state. It is necessary for the executive to keep the law clearly and to select people, not by belonging to a party, but by professional means. That is what we, the national deputies, must strive for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u13	Thank you. Two, two, we're through. The discussion is concluded and the decision will be made in accordance with the requirements of the Rules. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property Rights on Property Assessment is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 3185]] Rapporteur for the Deputy Minister of Economics and European Integration, Romanyuk Sergey Andryovich. Please, Sergey Andryovich. Vladimir Josephovich Matthew, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u14	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich! Dear National Deputies! The purpose of the bill is to introduce the only approaches to the preparation of draft government decisions related to the free transfer of property and property. It is proposed to include a rule in the Act on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property, according to which the initiator of the transfer of public or municipal property rights ensures, firstly, the development and submission of a business plan with clearly defined stages, its dates and sources of financial security for the project, the establishment of functional compatibility of the object, the transfer of tasks to the body to which it is transferred; and finally the determination of the level of economic and budgetary efficiency of the proposed project. In order to improve the property assessment procedure, it is necessary to determine the value of the property on the basis of its independent valuation. In addition, regulations are in place to regulate the property valuation procedure, which is passed on by exchange depending on the type of business, stock, pie, and immovable property. In this regard, part 2 of article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Transfer of Subjects to State and Municipal Property is proposed to comply with the requirements of articles 3 and 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Valuation of Property, Property Rights, and Professional Evaluation. They set out the requirements for reporting on the valuation of property and its assessment of the transfer of objects by exchange. The project is aimed at improving governance of state and municipal property, improving its effectiveness. He introduces the responsibility of executive authorities and local self - government to initiate such a transfer. Implementation. The bill does not need an increase in public expenditure. The conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office contains a number of suggestions that should be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. Please support the bill and accept it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u15	Thank you, Sergey Andryovich. The procedure is an uncertain question, so sit down. Matthew Vladimir Josephovich, deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u16	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! The draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Predicting of Public Communal Property Law was reviewed by the Committee on Economic Policy, Property and Investment, People's Management. We believe that it seeks to improve the economic feasibility of projects for free transfer to public property of public enterprises and State-owned shares, rations and shares in economic societies. The bill provides for a clearer regulation of the application of the procedure for the assessment of the transferred property, depending on its type. So all businesses, shares, shares, pies, real estate are to be evaluated. This will bring the law into line with the requirements of Ukrainian law on the assessment of property rights and professional evaluation activities. The Committee took a careful look at this issue by carefully examining the bill submitted. In the Committee's view, the draft could well be adopted as the basis for the first reading for further elaboration, taking into account the comments of the specialists. The Committee on Economic Policy and Management of Peoples' Economy, Property and Investment requests that we support our proposal and adopt the bill on first reading as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u17	Vladimir Josephovich, of course. Sit down, please, thank you. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin Let's move on to the discussion. Please. Prepare Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u18	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Of course, we have come to the conclusion of the transfer of property and property rights that is currently taking place in the state. Of course, if this conclusion is positive, we can see from this bill, which is at least, and the committee rightly noted, in my opinion, that we can accept in the first reading. I'd like to make some warnings. The first warning applies to the second and third parts of the second part of article 7, where such a concept is introduced, think about: fair value, if it is of fair value. What is fair value? It's justice -- it's a moral category, it's cost -- it's a market category. And together, these two categories aren't used very much. So you have to say that you have to figure out what the accounting value is if it's equal to the price. The word "just" has to be thrown out of here, replaced by others. Next. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that there is ambiguous interpretation in part four of article 4, which states that the documents listed in paragraphs 6-8 are given both in the transfer of shares of rations in the holdings and in the transfer of enterprises. Because it allows us to interpret that the submission of these additional documents is necessary only if the transfer of shares of rations in holdings, societies. In my opinion, the science-expert management is a very correct proposal. It proposes to complement the project with a position that would provide that in the event of failure to fulfil the business plan, the transferred property is subject to a return to state ownership. It's the experts from Zub and Valkovsky. In my opinion, this would provide a functional and purposeful route and transfer of this property. If time passed, and the business plan wasn't implemented, he's going back to government property. If, of course, this is not how it's done with the land right now in Odessa, where businesses are being transferred, and then the land is being sold, and there are cottages there so that it can't be returned. Thank you. I'm in for the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u19	I see. Bogdan Ivanovich Kostinjuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u20	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. The adoption of the bill will, in effect, allow for the order of affairs that arise during the transfer of property rights to municipal property. A proper assessment of property will allow for increased control of public property that is exchanged for utilities. The bill will strengthen the responsibility of the implementing authorities, which are the initiators of the transfer, in part of the commitments made to technologically upgrade the enterprise in accordance with the time-bound business plan, as the initiator of the transfer of public property objects should ensure the development and submission of a business plan with clearly defined stages of its implementation and the sources of financial support for the project, as well as information on the functional compatibility of the project with the tasks assigned to the body to which it is transferred, on the basis of which the level of economic efficiency of the project is determined. I agree that the project should foresee a rule that would predict that if a business plan was not executed within a specified time frame, the property would have to return to state ownership. The project should remove the rule that provides for the transfer of state-owned enterprises to the Ukrainian State Statistics Committee, because, first of all, it is an extra bureaucracy, and secondly, the Ukrainian State Statistics Act does not provide for the exercise of this function in the management of state-owned enterprises. I also find it inappropriate to use the term "fair value" in the draft because that term, well, first of all, is not defined by law. Maybe to avoid different interpretations and variations, the term "fair value" should be replaced by the term "market value." But as a whole, the project contributes to the development of a single property management system, to the improvement of the efficiency of the operation, since, in terms of national interests, it is appropriate and necessary to define on the competitive principles of an authority whose administration is economically justified in transferring a property to a state. So I propose that this bill be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u21	I see. Against whom? Is there no opposition? Then the discussion will be concluded. Decision-making will take place in accordance with the requirements of the Rules. Questions 3286, 3030 were to be announced, but at the request of the Committee on Economic Policy, the management of national agriculture, property and investment, it is proposed to move for one week. There won't be any comment on that, will you? Let's wait. The draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on General Principles for the Further Exploitation and Disposal of the Operation of the Chernobyl AES and the Transformation of the Destroyed Fourth Energy Cloud of this AES into an Environmentally Safe System is being reviewed, as is the registration number of Project 3439, 3439-1, 3641. He will report to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Please. Get ready for Polishku.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u22	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! This draft law is being prepared with a view to improving valid standards. The bill clarifies the rules on the right of employees of the Chernobyl AES who are released from work due to the early withdrawal of the Chernobyl AES from early retirement. It is supposed that this right of a person arises if there is no more than two years left on the day of the release before the retirement age. The standard for the period of registration of these persons in the State Employment Service is also clarified. Instead of 14 days to register them for the unemployed, you know that a person is actually counted as being released from the first day, as soon as the order for her release came out, and that's why there was such a problem that because of the status being given on the eighth day, people thought they had eight days, then they went to register, and in fact they didn't have eight, as they thought, but six days. So we suggest that we continue this standard, and that we have 14 days to register them as job seekers. That is to say, it increases the deadline, and it is possible for all people who need it so that they can sign up, get status, and get their help. A similar standard is proposed for the introduction of persons who are guaranteed the right to receive unemployment benefits on an increased and longer basis compared with the provision of the Ukrainian Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in case of unemployment. The bill also provides for the possibility of receiving unemployment benefits once for the organization of entrepreneurial activities for persons who cannot be employed in connection with the absence of work on the job market. That is, a person today will be able to receive this increased help, not monthly, but at his own request. If she wants to organize her own business, she can get help all the time to have enough money to organize her own business. Since unemployment assistance is paid at a higher and longer rate, it is proposed to pay one-off for the organization of entrepreneurial activities in the amount of unemployment assistance, calculated at an increased rate on the basis of 540 calendar days, because these people have a status, and not a year, as we have in accordance with the U.S. Law on Stately Pension Insurance for Unemployment, but have an extended term of one and a half years. So I think this will also have a positive impact on the social protection of citizens. The law is also being supplemented by rules on the payment of material assistance during the period of vocational training, retraining, or upgrading of the qualifications that will be available in the amount of unemployment assistance to start learning, and is not subject to reduction. So that's also the rule of law. The duration of the payment of this aid falls within the overall length of the unemployment payment and cannot exceed that period. These standards are similar to the relevant laws of Ukraine on compulsory state unemployment insurance. It is also suggested that all payments guaranteed by this law in the event of unemployment should be made in accordance with the order established by the law on unemployment insurance. And given that I have time, I would like you to support this bill first. This is a positive law that is working today to improve the social protection of citizens who are released from work in connection with the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. And in view of the fact that we also have the following bills that will be considered. So, I'd like to tell you the position of the Ministry that since the bills mentioned are aimed at strengthening the social protection of non-working pensioners released from work after the early withdrawal of the Chernobyl AES from exploitation, we consider them appropriate, first of all, to support, accept in the first reading. And bring together for consideration in the second reading, so that we do not have a few bills, but that there is one bill, because it refers to the same category of citizens. And that is the decision taken by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy and Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u23	Thank you. The Ministry's position is clear. People’s deputy Polishchuk Kirilo Ananiyovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u24	Polisczek Kirilo Ananiyovich, the Christian Democratic Party of Ukraine, is non-fractional. Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues. Our legislative proposal is aimed at strengthening and unifying the conditions of social protection of non-working pensioners, freeing them from work after the early withdrawal of the Chernobyl AES from operation. The bill proposes to extend the right to receive monthly pension payments to non-retirement pensioners released in connection with the closure of Chernobyl’s AES to persons released from work in connection with retirement or health after the early withdrawal of Chernobyl’s AES from service. The main difference, given the small legislative changes proposed and the possibility of adopting them as legislation in general, is that the alternative bill that we have introduced specifies the number of people who are entitled to a monthly allowance by specifying the time during which such persons have been released from work. In view of the above and of the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, I ask you to support the bills tabled, unite them three into one and accept them as a whole in the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u25	Thank you, Kiril Ananiyovich. She understands the suggestions, she matches the previous one. Boyko Viktor Alexiyovich, member of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u26	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster introduces Bills 3641 of 1806 to the Supreme Council. 2003 introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and by number 3439 from 24.04.2003 by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and by registration number 3439-1 from 05.-8.2003. These bills relate to the substance of one 12th article of the Law on the General Principles for the Further Exploitation and Disposal of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Station and the Conversion of the Destroyed Fourth Energy Cloud of this Nuclear Power Plant to the Environmental Safety System on the Right to Retirement of Monthly Pension Allowance to Non-Working Pensioners Released from Retirement or Health after the Indemnification of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Station from Exploitation. At its meeting on 10 September 2003, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of Bill 3641 on the basis of which was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In the second reading of the bill, consider the position of the bill with registration number 3439 and 3439-1. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u27	Thank you. The position is clear. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Anatolyevich, please. You can't even go out there, your place is here. Oh, that's different.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u28	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! You might remember that the stop at the Chernobyl station at a time when colossal money was put in there and when it was giving electricity, it was a voluntary decision of one person at a time. This man was Leonid Danilovich Kuchma. You remember that at this very moment, when we were taking and pouring champagne glasses at the Chernobyl station, when it was closed, there was a meeting of the Supreme Council, and we made a decision that the government called on the President not to do anything stupid or to throw money into the air. Ukrainian money! We called for the help promised by the international community. Sadly, we were right. What did the guarantor do? Is he under Chernobyl? No, it's not. Yesterday I accepted a delegation from Crimea. That's terrible. The next building is being built by the President's Administration with the participation of the Ministry of Transport. Cuts from the forest, they cut down pines. Everything we have, documentary confirmation, data as we do it. At the same time, we are forced to consider three bills today for these people who have been irresponsibly left without a pension left behind. So I agree with this proposal made by the drafters of the bill, but at first they didn't agree on the agreement that Michael Papiev made. By the way, I like what he's offering right now, even though he's on quota, let's say, not a friendly party elected to parliament, but also to the ministry. So we need to unify all the projects in a single way, because they relate to the same article, article 12. But there are a few other issues that are settled here. The questions are settled, there's 52 extra payments to retired men, there's still a little bit more to be paid by nature -- that's the right to retire for the term -- we're giving those workers who don't have more than two years left on the day of their release, and there's a payout for unemployment. That is, three categories unite together. Of course, for them to be prepared, all these laws had to be prepared and brought together. And this was where the government had to take the initiative. This is where the Ministry of Brethren needed to take the initiative a little earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u29	Thank you. Puzakov Volodymyr Tikhovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u30	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. I had to go to Slavotica a month ago, and I saw the terrible problems of the inhabitants of this city, which arose after Kuchma closed the third block of ČAES in December 2000. The bloc that had not yet been resourced at 11 years of age, which worked most irrefutablely from all working nuclear power blocks in Ukraine. Prior to the closure, the extracurricular work of the bloc not only provided the people of Slavotic with highly paid jobs, but also enabled the financing of virtually all the social infrastructure of the city: schools, hospitals, kindergartens, housing. All of this lived on the third power block. Therefore, the order of the President of Ukraine to withdraw fully from the operation of the Czech Republic meant, in fact, the extinction of an entire city with 25,000 inhabitants. The situation was exacerbated by the fact that the Government's social protection programme, adopted before the closure of the Czech Republic, was not carried out in an angry manner. According to the programme, the city's budget should be dated to the State and amounted to 37 million dollars for 2003, of which 18 million are from Gosbudget. But the people of Slavutić received less than 10 million bracelets from the State because Kabmin did not add this money for an unknown reason. And it's only for teachers to pay for school fees that the city needs 7 million bracelets a year. Take the city's utilities. It goes to the bottom: water is turned off, construction is frozen, there is no medicine in the hospital, unemployment is booming. It's scary and painful to look at a dying city with windows slashed. And how can we say that these changes to this law are designed to provide social protection for non-working retirees released from work due to early withdrawal from the operation of the Chernobyl nuclear station. What protection will they receive from the anti-national regime? Although the reports often say that the funding for social protection for victims is declining. Of course, it's shrinking, because they die without getting anything from power. Let me give you a little example. In our city of Kirovograd, there is a black man, Equis Valerius, who has received a large dose of radiation. Today he's very sick, he's treated for nothing. And they only pay a pension for 90 bracelets. No place, no place to live, no house to live, no daughter to live in, too. She receives as many as 21 bracelets from the State for recovery. And that's what the State's concern for these people is called. So it is not necessary to hold people to their ears, that this law will raise the standard of living of pensioners, especially when they are transferred to targeted assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u31	Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u32	Dear Head, dear fellow national MPs! I went up to the rostrum to talk about this question, to actually say two things, three, to be exact. First. I fully support the initiative. Indeed, this Chernobyl spectrum needs to be broadened a little bit. But I can't agree with those colleagues of mine who spoke before this, who today are crying in the back of the box, that they didn't have to shut down the Chernobyl nuclear station. My dear colleagues, I was the first head of the Chernobyl Commission. Then she was canceled, and she's long gone. And I have to say that 10 to 11 years ago, in the word "Cornobil," when either I or the members of our committee climbed this rostrum, the word "Cornobil" shook the imagination, shaken the consciousness of every person living in Ukraine. Today we talk about it as something very common, forgotten, even boring, that only causes great problems to our nation. Well, let me be the man who was aware of these problems. I led a commission of inquiry that established the causes of the Chernobyl disaster, and yet I say, The Chernobyl had to be closed, Your Honor! Let's not talk about today that he's so beautiful that he could continue to function, because this RBMC-1000 reactor itself, he was a bad one himself. And the accident was because he was really bad. But there is another question: Was that supposed to be closed? The station’s closure took place in a state of absolute illiteracy and irresponsibility. We had to extort from the world everything we could take to build something solid and decent instead of this temporary sarcophagus. And this was done, I don't know if they did it in a bad way or in a good mood. The world turned away from us on the second day because we did not take any guarantees, plus the low authority of our leadership. And, of course, today, this problem is on our minds. And we have something to talk about. You know that the Chernobyl station is built on the break of this granite shield on which Ukraine, in Polissa, is located, and there is a danger that groundwater pollution can break into groundwater, and Europe may run out of water. It is necessary for authority today to speak, turn to the world. Then maybe the money will come to us. And the last. The biggest problem today is black and white, they're fake detectors. Every official who has access to the seal and orders has made an irreprehensible ID of a Chernobyl liquidator today. Instead, thousands of people — colporteurs, chauffeurs — who were given a bottle of somnol and dozens of eggs that went to the Chernobyl area — had no documents; they could not confirm their stay there. One audit was made of liars, and they became even more numerous. This is a colossal problem today and the moral problem that is being exploited in this disaster. That's what the Ministry of Emergency Situations and your Ministry would be worth paying attention to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u33	Thank you. Who's against it? Two for, one against. No, there were two already. Who's against it? Melniczuk's replica is only on this issue. If that's the case, then let's do it. Let's see. Melniczuk, Socialist Party. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u34	Thank you, Alexander Alexiovich. Why did I want to ask? As Minister Mikhailo Papiev spoke here, we know that he is a man of words and deeds, yet Bukovina trusts him as much as the whole of Ukraine. Mikhaylo Mikolaiovich, I want to address you: how did the order go after number 1351, which concerns social protection, and this decision should be checked by you? See what the Cabinet of Ministers does: It introduces tariffs from the New Year for food companies, where one medical examination of the station will cost a worker 340 bracelets. It cost 52 bracelets this year. The average nurse nurse in the maternity home will pay in a year for a medical examination at Sanstation 810 bracelets. Say, please, this is protection, this is the return of the government to the people, is there anything else? When businesses are again taxed, they're going to have to pay 200-300 dollars for these people, up to 500,000 dollars. So please, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, please, Decree No. 1351. Take control, take a look. Because it is the protection of those who work in businesses today. Thank you, Alexander Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u35	The discussion is over. Decision-making will take place in accordance with the requirements of the Rules. The draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Metallurgy is being announced for consideration. [[about metallurgy operations]] Project registration number 3281. Reported by Ukrainian national deputy Kozachenko Alekseiyyovich. Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u36	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. You are being reviewed by the Ukrainian Act of Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Metallurgy. As the author of this bill, I would like to stress the need for its adoption. The bill is designed to improve the system of state regulation of metallurgy operations and exports of semi - coloured metals. The draft law lays down the conditions for preventing illegal removal from Ukraine of scrap metal and for obtaining illegal export VAT. The law of law needs to clarify the technical and technological concepts and terms used to regulate metallurgical transactions, as well as the civil and legal relations that arise in the process of cooking, metallurgical processing of scrap metal, and the export of semi-manufacturing metals. First of all, this refers to the list of standards that produce and export the production of scrap metal, the term "primary metallurgical processing", and the improvement of the system of state regulation of metallurgical transactions and the export of the production of coloured metals. The adoption of the relevant amendments to the Metallurgical Law will allow for the stabilization and improvement of the work of enterprises involved in obtaining a license for cooking, processing, metallurgical processing of scrap metal and the exportation of copper, semifabricated copper, and alloys on the basis of it, as well as the organization of the activities of manufacturing enterprises. The main thing is to prevent illegal VAT compensation, to support domestic businesses in color metallurgy. I would like to stress that the implementation of the project does not require additional financial and material costs, but will allow the State budget of Ukraine to be replenished by the transparency of the business activities of metal trafficking enterprises. In conclusion, I would like to ask you, honourable colleagues, to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u37	Thank you, Alexeiovich. Head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Sergei Anatoliyevich, from the Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. In the four years since the adoption of the scrap metal law, we have experienced different moments and have amended the bill several times to improve the mechanism for working with scrap metal. Today we are looking at another one. Through our common efforts, we have managed to sort things out, reduce the number of points of production, and stabilize the work that is being done today on the export and export of scrap. The bill proposes to strengthen or continue its work in this regard. In order to speak of the need for this law, I would like to present just a few figures in order for us to have the situation today. With a total reduction of about 20 per cent in the overall production of scrap in Ukraine, we have so far, domestic consumption, increased by 11.7 per cent. Steel production increased, by almost 10 per cent, by 65.4 per cent. That is, the trend in which we put the domestic producer first. In addition, we have recently managed, thanks to this factor, to the extent that we have introduced scrapping into exports, we have managed to stabilize and raise to some extent the prices in the internal market, thereby creating a favourable condition for both the scrapmaker and the consumer. What does the bill propose? First of all, he suggested that a system of order should be established or strengthened when working with semi-manufacturers on a coloured scrape in order to introduce rules, strict rules that would prevent the export of alloys and traps that are spilled on garages that are spilling on illegal productions in order to create normal conditions for their exports, namely alloys and lashes. Second moment. We're going to go and create, we're going to say, a compromise mechanism with black-brokers, by which we're taking down the strict rules that we've made to the required sites, that's to say, we're choosing a limit on the area. And so on and so on, we're going to let you do the calculation with the buyers of the living currency scrap, so to speak, cash. This proposal or this change will make it possible to systematize, let's say, scrapping work for a black scrap. At the same time, they will allow for a tightening of the system for the export of coloured scrap, and this bill will allow us to, let us say, take the next step towards setting up the scrapping order. The Committee has considered the bill carefully and proposes that it be adopted on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u39	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. I warned you, Yuri Anatolyovich. We're wasting precious time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u40	I'm sorry. You turned on the counter, and it's no longer your business as far as I'm going. Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! The law currently under consideration is extremely important. We need to understand that we need to do the production for a long time, not just take out the scrap metal. We have long ago come to realize that this law also has a bearing on the law that we were considering today on the privatization of Crucifixion, where it's all shared between Clano-Finance groups, unless only the people on Bloody Rose have been divided. As far as this project is concerned, it will certainly be for you to accept it in the first reading. Although I can say that there is a reference to and legal technique as it is prepared, let's say a reference to a comparative table, let's say the terms of article 1 are listed in the table: compilation, cooking, processing, transportation. They are no longer in the edited column. What does that say? The need to delete the terms in the first column? Probably not. So there is another observation. In article 1, paragraph 19, the term "first metallurgical metallurgy" is replaced by "first metallurgical scrap metal processing". But according to article 1, part 1, paragraph 3, transactions in scrap metal are manufacturing, processing, and metallurgical processing of black and colored metals. [[I'd like to emphasize!]] So I understand that copper or other noble colored metals are a little bit closer, but the law is all about metal scrap. That's why black metal should not come out. I would also like to draw your attention to the language of the text when we write things like that. Changes in the course of certain or deforming alloys. Could not use terms. translations from Russian or other languages. It is always necessary to find matches in the English language. For example, a dictionary of foreign - language translations into Latin, which is the official language of the papal throne and medicine of all countries, was published in the Vatican recently by Pope John Paul II. Why don't we? Why don't we make the terms "the catalogue of legal terms used in legal acts"? So I'm going to suggest that I adopt this law in the first reading, and I'm going to make my specific comments in the second reading. I think this is going to be the right approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u41	Thank you. Vladimir Tikhovitch Puzakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u42	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština How is this law brought to the fore? And every time he needs to clarify technical and technological concepts and terms. While you and I are clarifying terms and concepts, the metal fever has already dissolved the tentacles so much that there is no stopping it. I don't know, maybe it's just in Kirovgrad that the power lines, the radio and the phone lines are being destroyed. Eight hundred and fifty-one thefts have resulted in the theft of 961 kilometres of uninsulated wire, 27 power transformers, and 73 units of various equipment. Total damage from theft in 9 months amounted to 4 million 548 thousand dollars. In addition to stealing power lines, there are many facts of vandalism, barbaric looting of cemeteries and liberation soldiers' monuments. Once again, we hear that this law is designed to improve the system of government regulation of transactions with scrap metal and exports of the production of colored metals. How do we already have an improved system of government regulation for metallurgy operations today? Not at all. Just as natural reception points have worked, they work successfully today and increase their numbers. Today, 293 reception points are in operation in the Kirovograd region. A year ago it was 241, and the license was only 53. Local authorities are satisfied with this, for without their permission there would be no opening point. It's not a secret that it's one of the real sources of coming into the pocket of living money. And the law enforcement agencies aren't worried about that either. You can count on your fingers how many criminal cases have been committed in violation of the rules of acceptance and the export of scrap metal. I raised this problem twice from the Supreme Council’s rostrum, asked the MPs. And Kirovgradjska was waiting for Ukraine to take action to stop the violations of the legislation that regulates the operation with the scrap metal, but the movement for the better never happened, the scales of the thefts remain significant. The situation in the area is out of control. Therefore, on behalf of the electorate, I demand that the legislation be amended immediately to restore the monopoly of the state to metallurgical operations, to criminalize industrial debris without documentary confirmation of its origin. And at the direction of the electorate, I protest against the inaction of the authorities, and I demand to immediately ban the activity of natural black and colour-based metals in the area and the immediate adoption of the article on criminal responsibility for preserving the transport and sale of black and colour metals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u43	Vladimir Alexandrovich, I understand correctly, do you mind? Do you mind? Yavrovsky Vladimir Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! In a village on the border between Kiev and Chernigiv region, I have a house long ago. A man came to me and said, "There are no children on bread, we barely make ends meet. Help me, as an MP, get somewhere to work." And here I met a farmer, and I asked him, and I said, "Listen, Gretz, take a man. This is not even for children. Here, you can help him a little. He'll do something to you." He says, "Okay. Go to work tomorrow." On the second day, the man did not go to work, and a week later he was buried. He's the one who's got the high-voltage transformer, and he's on fire. I've told this story to move away from dry time-consuming legislation, because this law that we're adopting is truly tragic very often in history. It's a good thing we're adopting this law. But someone, I don't know who, runs this law in a very timely manner. So when virtually no more color metal is in Ukraine, it's long since been exported. As a result, this law is adopted with such delay. You know, on our scrap metal and color and dirty and black, the economies are practically flourishing today, both in Poland and in Germany and elsewhere. And in a Ukrainian society today, I'm not going to characterize it that way, but a few familiar oligarchic physionomys who practically made the first money for smuggling from Ukraine and color, and not very color metal. It's a sad page in our Ukrainian new history, when almost all of this metal can be used today to revive, so to speak, our Ukrainian economy. Because of this law, I think we're going to vote, it's hard to measure, but it's so late, it's practically no longer going to be any use to him, unless in a few years, Ukraine is going to have a little scrap metal again, and even if it doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u45	Yeah, who's up for it? None. The discussion is closed. Decision-making is in accordance with the requirements of the Rules. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax System Act is being announced for consideration. [[on the removal of an emergency congregation]] Project registration number 3394, Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking Activities, Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, on 20 March this year, we passed the Law on Amendments to the Cabinet Decree on Taxes and Charges, which was simplified by the hotel fee. This local tax has significantly hampered the development of the hotel industry. As a type of tax worldwide, hotel fees are virtually non-applicable. In Ukraine, its cancellation reduces the cost of living in a hotel and makes the hotel industry attractive. However, after excluding hotel charges from the Cabinet Decree on the list of taxes and charges set out in article 15 of the Ukrainian Tax System Act, the hotel fee was left. Since the Supreme Council has already determined the need to reduce the tax pressure on the hotel industry, we need to resolve this conflict by excluding the hotel collection also from the Tax System Act of Ukraine in order not to be tempted to return to that tax at any time. I would like to point out that the bill is drafting, and its adoption will have no impact on budget income. The Committee therefore decided to support the bill in its first reading. I am also the author, and I express the opinion of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u47	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, prepare Suprun Ludmili.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u48	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! What changes do we make to the law? It is proposed to amend the tax system law. Please consider the global issue of the tax system. And we're only asking a very, very small question: we're removing the hotel congregation from the list of local congregations. Yes, of course, we have to rule it out, no questions asked. That's very correct, and we have to take it right away, both in the first and second readings we should have done it when we accepted it. But there's something else I want to say. I want to say that today it's completely gaining the whole state: the tax system, and more faithfully, the absence of a system, the system of extortion that thrives on this taxation today. 62,000 tax administrations at different levels. 62 grand! What's that? Is that okay? Is this scientifically based? The economy is humming, and a third of the army is in the tax administration. Somebody get the VAT back! Don't you know that between 20 and 40 percent should be paid for VAT returns? Don't you know that many of the majority copied into the majority just to give back VAT to someone who earned the company, or maybe didn't make any money. So when it comes to the tax system, the committee would have to say that the tax system needs to be changed in the state, because we're going to get businesses. And this is where our colleague Homutinich now suggested that we accept this, and I remember four times in our last session asking the question not to return VAT. And today, the ideologist of this question, Mikola Janovich Azarov, says, should issue bonds. Look at the State Budget. The state budget is a quarter worse than last year, a quarter! - by their own numbers. And including the implementation of the budget, it's totally hollow, it's only happening because they don't pay taxes for the added value to those who made it, they kill our businesses and they put everyone under the Tax Administration. That's why I'm going to the committee that's in charge of this issue right now. First, to save our time, we need to adopt this law in the first and second readings, the Committee on Finance and Banking. And secondly, I'm addressing you and the Committee on Budget Affairs: the state of tax pay for the added value concerns all people in this country, which is not yet called "Eopa", but Ukraine, so please prepare a report and inform the national MPs about it. And I'm asking the Head again, where's the People's Choice? I already called you this morning. Fourteen numbers have been announced. 10 numbers on the output. I was talking to you, you say, "Two weeks will pass." Well, announce the dissolution of such a faction now, this is a requirement of the Rules, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u49	Thank you. I'm asking the Secretariat to prepare. Well, I get it. I'm just saying to the Secretariat, there's paperwork. I can't follow through right now. I just want to say that Ukraine will always be called Ukraine, under any circumstances. The word is Ludmila Suprun. Is there a Ludmila Suprun? None. Nigga? None. Taras Cranville? None. Andrew School? None. So we're done here. A review of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax System Act has been completed. [[on the removal of an emergency congregation]] This is document 3394. Decisions will be made in the proper order. A draft law on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Exchange Stocks is being announced for consideration. [[about the issue of bonds]] Reporter - Sergey Kiroyanz, head of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u50	Dear colleagues. The project proposes to lift the bond issue restrictions for shareholders. This, first of all, refers to article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Exchange. Today, according to current legislation, there are restrictions on the issue of bonds only for shareholders. All other businesses issue unfettered bonds. A paradox is emerging, some 34,000 shareholders now operating in Ukraine produce more than 75 percent of GDP, while their share of the bond issue is only 8 percent. So instead of creating equal opportunities for all forms of business, current legislation essentially discriminates against shareholders. Moreover, it does not protect the market from giant emissions, unsecured bonds. Enough to mention at least a DK “Gaz Ukraine” bond issue of 3.5 billion dollars. Let's take another fact: the statutory fund of an enterprise today is based on an initial cost balance. At the same time, for most corporate non-privatized enterprises, hyperinflation in the 1990s made an impressive difference between real assets and the size of a statutory fund. With regard to the threat of slavery that seems to arise when the bill is adopted, I would like to point out this. First of all, existing legislation limits on equity companies do not protect investors' rights or prevent new trusts and financial pyramids from being created on the basis of societies, small businesses, R & D, etc. Investors work in the market mainly through licensed market participants: banks, brokering companies, stock markets, licensed trading systems that are obliged to protect their customers from unscrupulous securities. That's what they're doing. The protection of investors' interests must be ensured by a non-administrative limit on the volume of issuance of certain types of debt securities, which must be ensured by increased market transparency, improved disclosure systems. Next. Article 158, paragraph 2, of the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[new editor]] Invalidly limits the maximum possible bond size of statutory capital or the amount of collateral provided to a third party. However, additional security should increase the company’s already existing bonding capabilities. It should not be an alternative. So editing the selected item requires changes. The adoption of this bill can bring additional benefits, we will get additional data, a real picture of the activities of shareholders in the absence of bond restrictions. And this experience will be invaluable for a more meaningful adoption of new laws on stockholder societies, securities, and bonds.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u51	Thank you. Please sit down, Sergey Grigorovitch. There's a need to discuss it, isn't there? Got it. Well, if they refuse. I understand, Your Honor. Put on the sign the name of the national MPs who have been enrolled. Yuri Anatolyovich, please. Prepare Bartkiwa.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u52	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! The Law on Securities and Stock Exchange, of course, is a serious law, and we have adopted it, and now, before that law that is reported, I have some observations. The comments relate to the fact that it is impossible and impossible to allow the adoption of amendments to the Civil Code. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we have an expert on the Civil Code of the Council of Europe. That means yes. And he'll just go into action on January 1st next year. We are now even without a legal committee, we are asking this question, there is no opinion of the Legal Policy Committee. And we're asking this question right now, and it's not going to be a big deal. The Committee on Finance and Banking only concludes. Therefore, I believe that when this bill is considered, the irregular procedure and amendments to the Civil Code are not appropriate, as this will be considered with the new Act on Shareholders and it is appropriate to adopt this law first and then to amend it? I don't want to, God forbid, repeat the practice we've already had in the Supreme Council of the past when we weren't allowed to adopt the Criminal Code just because there's no new Civil Code. The Civil Code has not yet entered, and we are already proposing changes. So I strongly insist that this law be sent to the Legal Policy Committee as well in order for the committee to be a normal expert on the bill and its conclusion. And in any case, when we make these changes and propose them to basic codes, I'm not saying that we need to re-examine the Council of Europe, but at least the expertise of those institutions that are in Ukraine, we have to do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u53	Yes, the Bartock People's Deputy. Please, Vasil Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u54	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs. The project under consideration aims at removing existing legislation barriers to increasing corporate bonds, particularly those issued by shareholders. The project is designed to provide a viable alternative to bank lending and to reduce the cost of financial engagements and increase their volume. What is it specifically suggested that we do? To date, restrictions on the issue of bonds are not applied to private enterprises, limited liability societies, full company commanderships, and other types of household associations. Instead, shareholders are determined that the issue of bonds is allowed to amount to not more than 25 percent of the statutory fund. This formula is contained in the Law on Securities and Exchange Stocks. At the same time, part two of article 158 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, which will take effect on 1 January of the following year, establishes a slightly different rule, namely, that shareholders have the right to issue bonds on an amount that does not exceed the amount of statutory capital or the amount of collateral provided to society for that purpose by third parties. Thus, our legislation already foresees a trend towards a gradual reduction in restrictions on the issue of bonds by shareholders. In competition with the Law on Securities and Exchange Stocks and the Civil Code, there will be a rule that will be adopted later, that is, the code. At the same time, the author proposes to compare the status of shareholding societies with other types of cooperatives in the part of removing any restrictions on the issuance of bonds, referring to the fact that the creation of restrictive business conditions for shareholders does not have any legal or economic basis. He also argued that the experience of applying this law on securities and stock exchange is, more specifically, the practice of circumventing this standard by shareholders, by creating subsidiaries in the form of limited liability societies, which without limitation produce the necessary amount of corporate bonds. And, indeed, such a shameful practice exists. The author concludes that the implementation of these schemes is not appropriate in terms of increasing financial costs, etc. Thus, existing restrictions have a negative impact on effective issuers. To correct the market situation, it is proposed to delete paragraph 6 of Article 11 of the Securities and Stock Exchange Act, setting the same level of conditions for the issue of corporate bonds for all types of households. Let me just remind you that by their legal nature, bonds refer to debt securities that show relationships, loans, and provide for the issuer’s obligation to pay a fixed amount of money in accordance with these obligations. Therefore, some guarantees are needed for creditors’ rights. Before we adopt this law, we need to work hard on these very guarantees. I believe that this bill can be adopted in the first reading and, with substantial refinements, submitted for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u55	Bogdan Kostinuk, deputy faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u56	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostenyuk. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I want to draw your attention to the title of the bill, because it doesn't exactly fit the text. For, as it has been said today, the amendments are made to two bills. This is particularly true of the law on securities and stock exchange, and of the new Civil Code, which has not even entered into force since January 1, 2004. That's the first one. Next. In particular, the bill proposes to delete article 11, paragraph 6, which deals with the decision to issue bonds under the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Exchange Stocks, i.e. to remove all financial restrictions on the cost of issuing securities by shareholders. The abolition of the full legislative restriction on the issue of bonds by shareholders does not remove discriminatory conditions for the emissions of the listed enterprises, but it can lead to total chaos in the issuance of securities. The bill proposes to remedy the shortcomings, restrictions on the issuance of bonds by shareholders, without linking the volume of emissions to the statutory fund of enterprises. The Shareholders Association Statute Fund indicates the minimum size of the property and the cost of the enterprise that guarantees the interests of its creditors. That is, the issuer can actually account for the buyers of his bonds and securities in a fixed term and in accordance with the statutory capital that is available. Therefore, by deleting article 11, paragraph 6, of the decision to issue bonds, there will be no level playing field in the release of corporate bonds to all households. More specifically, in article 11, paragraph 6, of this Act, which refers to 25 percent of the statutory fund, replace the formulation with the full cost of the statutory fund. We can agree with that. Next on the Civil Code. Article 158, paragraph 2, of the Ukrainian Civil Code points to the specific cost to which shareholders are entitled to issue bonds. And paragraph 3 of this article indicates in which cases shareholders are not entitled to advertise and pay dividends. Therefore, the changes to the new Civil Code, I stress, which has not even yet entered into force, are underappreciative. In this regard, I consider it to be classic for such a number of comments to this bill either to send it for further processing or to read it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all who signed up for the talk, took the floor. The review of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Exchange is a document under number 3431, completed, we will make a decision taking into account the discussion on the day of the vote. [[about the issue of bonds]] A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Treatment of Taxpayers' Obligations to Budgets and State Purpose Funds is being announced for consideration. [[on the tax declaration]] Reporter: National Deputy of Ukraine Gorbachev Viktor Sergiyovich. Is there a Gorbachev Viktor Sergiyovich? Please, Victor Sergiyovich. Get ready for Cappuccino.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u58	Thank you. For your consideration of the amendment to the Taxpayer Obligations Act for Budgets and State Trust Funds, No. 4043. Dear colleagues, distinguished President! The changes relate to indirect methods, i.e. approximate methods used by the tax service in the case of additional taxes on enterprises. These indirect methods are defined, there are four points, approximately so far, in the methodology and in the law that defines these additional taxes. For example, if the actual location of the enterprise is not established, or if there is a evasion of the entity's tax information, or if there is no tax accounting. In this case, the enterprise is audited by indirect methods and the tax office determines taxes. What is the point of change? I believe that the paragraph in this law must be defined. The methodology must be determined only by the laws of the country. That is, our legislation has a clear order in which it is the laws of the country that determine taxes. To date, the bill describes the tax service as defining this methodology. That is, in fact, the tax service itself determines the amount and how these taxes will be collected. Once again, I want to reiterate that these are the estimated taxes of the enterprise. That is to say, this is not part of today's tax system, it's not VAT, it's profit, it's not tax on the payroll fund, it's an additional tax that the taxpayer might consider they have, it's a company that's lowering its turnover, and it's lowering taxes accordingly. Therefore, I believe that the methodology should be determined by laws that, I believe, will be one of the paragraphs of this law on second reading. Another point is quite substantial in this law, and it has been determined that the decision on this method - the definition of indirect methods, allowing for some amount of tax to be determined only by the court. Thus, to date, the legislation clearly defines that the tax service, when inspecting an enterprise, signs an act and signs an act by the director of the enterprise. I believe that the act of the Director of the Enterprise should not be signed because, to date, the figure is tax service, which some 500 million directors have signed voluntarily, you can say. I don't think it's voluntary. I believe that, if the tax office, again, I want to reiterate that these are indirect methods, approximate and not related to the country's taxes, then the tax service, at the signature of the tax officer, goes to court and proves these indirect additional taxes. Accordingly, the court shall decide. In conclusion, the Committee supported these changes and the conclusions of our Division, the Scientific Division of the Expert at the Supreme Council, also invites you to adopt them on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u59	Yes, thank you for the report. The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Victor Volodymyrovich Kapusin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u60	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Finance and Banking has considered this bill, or more specifically has considered this bill several times, and its author, Mr. Gorbachev, has just spoken and detailed his point. The point is that the method of indirect methods should be approved by the law of Ukraine rather than by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and by the tax administration. Why the committee has considered this issue several times, I want to stop. Because there were different thoughts, because there was the idea that giving this right to the legislative body, that is, legislation is legislation. I mean, it's going to change this situation a little bit, and it's going to lead to a more massive way of making decisions, making methodologies. Nevertheless, many examples of misunderstandings in the use of these methods, such as misunderstandings, pressures, such methods of applying these methods, have been cited, and apologize for the tautology that cannot normally be accepted in the market economy and in our economic field. So the committee finally decided to recommend to the Supreme Council to adopt a draft in the first reading, to prepare it for second reading, taking into account comments that can be made after the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u61	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the performances. Names of the national deputies, please, on the list of those who sign up for the performances. Carmazine, you got it. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. I know. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. The turn will be the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u62	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Let me first of all thank Viktor Gorbachev for preparing this law and introducing it, and they have to understand his electorate, and they have to understand the leaders of those enterprises where today there are indirect methods of tax accounting. At the same time, by clearly acquainting you with adopting this law in the first reading, I would like to pay attention to why we should adopt such a law. In accordance with article 124 of the Constitution, the jurisdiction of the courts extends to all legal relations that arise in the State, including tax. Therefore, when a court decides to apply indirect methods of determining tax liabilities, it is a guarantee of the protection of the rights of every enterprise entity, every individual engaged in an enterprise. This is a guarantee against the seductive cry that people today are groaning. But I would like to see my colleague Gorbachev predict whether the Committee of Profiles has foreseen that, since we will adopt this law and until the method of determining the amounts of indirect taxes is approved, how will indirect methods be applied, since the law will be established that there will be a need for a method and that there will be no methodology at that time? There's a vacuum going on. This vacuum can be used by people who want to make money not to pay taxes. I'm pointing out to you that in our country, according to the guarantor of the Constitution, 50 percent of the economy is in the shadows, and I'm saying that not 50 percent, but 75 percent to 80 percent of the economy is in the shadows. So we need to think about how to get her out of the shadows. And today, if the court asks questions, I think that's fair, because in accordance with article 43 of the Civil Procedure Code and the 62nd Court in its decision-making process, it assesses the evidence of its beliefs, which will be based on a comprehensive and effective hearing in the trial of all the circumstances of the case in their population. And when we say that a person needs a lawyer against criminal persecution, shouldn't an enterprise that is destroyed by taxpayers, sometimes deliberately, be destroyed? So I think it's going to be just to protect a normal, well I'd say a law-abiding enterprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u63	Thank you. Mikola Krutz, faction of our Ukraine. Then Nadya.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u64	Mikola Krutz, Ivano-Frankivsky, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In my view, the implementation of the proposals made in this project is long overdue and extremely necessary, even when it comes to this issue from a formal point of view. This has already been emphasized today. But I want to repeat this again: if the Constitution establishes the position that the tax system, taxes and congregations are established exclusively by the laws of Ukraine, this should be the case, otherwise Ukraine will never become a state of law. The Constitution was adopted and became effective in 1996. Today, in 2003, we continue to determine and pay taxes on a number of occasions on the basis of regulations, that is, we do not live by the Constitution. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the project deals with indirect methods of determining the amount of tax liabilities. Tax payers in the field of farming are well aware that such methods are involved. These are methods on the basis of which the amount of tax liabilities is counted in very approximate amounts. So they're also called approximate methods. And what is an approximate method in practice is largely the basis for subjectiveness, if you want, for unjust decisions and abuses. For the tax payer’s great desire, they can count on obligations that he should not carry out at all according to the nature of his activities and the results of his activities. Or you could say, by indirect methods, you could count tax liabilities on anything, even what the taxpayer doesn't have. But if it has already been counted, it is forced to perform under the threat of legal responsibility, including criminal responsibility. That is, such methods can be wrong. Where am I going with this? To the extent that the method of determining the amount of indirect tax liabilities requires careful and careful treatment. Of course, the clear criteria for such methods are very difficult to determine, but most of them need to be determined otherwise. And we need to do this at the legislative level, not at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers or the instructions of the DPA, which, by the way, can be changed and much easier to adapt to a particular person. Thus, under the law, we not only enforce existing legislation in accordance with the Constitution but also prevent a number of tax conflicts, narrow the scope of unwarranted fiscal measures, add freedom to the host and make more civilized relations between taxpayers and taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u65	Is there a Basil Nedra? None. Jaroslav Suhi, please. The faction of Ukraine's Social Democratic Party is united.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u66	Honorable colleagues offered by counterpart Gorbachev at number 4033 surely need their further work. And I think we're going to make this proposal to the profile committee: in as strict terms as possible, with the Tax Administration to work on it in part of the methodology. But the bill itself can be supported in view of the need for further regulation of the tax system. I think that because of the requirements of the law, because of respect for the law, because of the equality of everyone before the law, and not because of someone's ambition, because of some politics, of trying to save themselves from the responsibility of their businessmen, members, or party, or sponsors of a block there, there must be a problem in resolving the relationship between taxpayers and taxpayers. I'll be honest with you. And we, sitting here in the hall, in the audience, and our radio audiences, may find it disgusting to listen to these cynical blasphemous noises about what someone has offended because someone has some suspicions about someone. We must all be equal before the law. If there is a violation of the law, this law should be far away from those bodies that are called upon to do so, not here, in this room instead of the rule of law, to ignite some political ambition. This is about making commitments, determining tax liabilities by indirect methods. And I believe, and here the people’s deputies have been speaking fairly to avoid subjectivism and, above all, empty accusations against taxpayers and the law is necessary. I'm more than sure the tax administration will support such a bill. Moreover, it will contribute to further improvement and the introduction of normal norm - making techniques. The main thing is that it sets out concrete prerequisites for the use of an indirect method and allows it to be more legitimate and more transparent. I want to make a note of the bill's author and profile committee. Of course, it will be necessary for the tax administration to return to the conditions under which the method of determining tax liabilities is decided. And if this is prescribed by law, you know how many times in this room we've had these precedents when the law is treated twice. This has to be written clearly and clearly because it's very difficult for us to go. The market transformations of our economy, in order to prevent this difficult path from being disrupted, are required by law in order for it to be written clearly, clearly, and not to allow double treatment. In general, I believe that the bill can be voted on in the first reading in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u67	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u68	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you for not saying it, either for it or against me, because I want to say something else on the subject of this law. Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. In fact, I know that the government is now concerned that there is no income for the budget, that the Sequester is preparing and so on. And I say he is. There's income, there's everything. But there are other actions. Here we are, the opposition, accused of destabilizing the work of the Supreme Council, of not supporting the laws we need. On the other hand, what I want to say is, please tell me, the Cabinet of Ministers decree of 1044, then the Prime Minister was Victor Yushchenko, and the ethanol program was approved. According to this program, seven alcohol factories were re-proposed to produce a high - octane oxygen supplement. In fact, this gave Ukraine an economy of 6-7 percent crude oil. So there were seven liquor factories, there was molasses being processed, there was a sale for sugar plants in this malas, because we know that we don't have animal production. Hundreds of millions of dollars in taxes went to the budget. Mr. Azarov, last year, he was forced to suspend this decision, seven liquor factories stopped, and they didn't work. We're already in debt, we have taxes, and we don't have teams. High professionals of these factories are leaving these businesses. So, please tell me, who would benefit from this situation today? The molasses are already in the factories, the factories are not unlocking, they can't because the decision is stalled. Act until 2004 until January 1st. In the 2004 budget, the excise duty rate will not work again, and these factories will not be able to work again. Thus, 36 liquor factories today, except for these seven, cannot work. Who would benefit from that, anyway? If we're talking about yield taxes, today I'm talking to Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, Mr. Azarov. Please unlock the work of these factories. Besides, I'm talking to the government. Support the President. This is the first time I have asked for the support of Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, President of Ukraine, who, by decree of 22 June 1999, No.68899, on the organization of the production of petrol, motor mixes supported Victor Yushchenko's ruling of the Cabinet of Ministers. Are you going against the President? If not, please prove it in practice and let our liquor plants, including Luzansky in the Chernivecki region, work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u69	Thank you. Yes, the position of the government, please, on this bill. Biruk Sergey Alexiyovich, a member of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets Microphone. Very short: support, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u70	This law can be supported as a whole, but it must be pointed out that the main problem is that it is a reference to indirect methods through judicial proceedings. If you take statistics for today using the indirect methods of 1483, only 70 have gone to court. The bill provides for the application of all methods. That is, the budget costs involved in the application of the law. It's about a court-ordered escort. The measures applied on indirect taxation are that there will be a significant increase in the number of employees to be employed, the provision of legal security in the courts to be organised and the additional budgetary costs that will need to be met. So in general, the bill does not correspond to government policy in order to reduce administrative costs with regard to the use of indirect methods. And the questions for today are settled and can be applied in the order prescribed by Law 2181. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u71	It was Doctor Sergey Ivanovich, deputy head of the State Tax Administration, I'm sorry, I didn't look there. Dear colleagues! Question completed. I am referring to the consideration of the draft law amending Ukraine's law on how to pay taxpayers' tax liabilities to budgets and government trust funds on the tax declaration, which is document number 4043. Decisions will be made taking into account the discussion on the day of the vote. A draft law on State expertise in land-use documentation is being announced for consideration. Rapporteur, Ukrainian National Deputy Alexeiyyovich Kozachenko Prepare Vladimir Aleksyevich Lechchenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u72	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. You are being reviewed by the draft Ukrainian law on State expertise in land-use documentation. As co-author of the bill, I would like to stress the relevance and necessity of its adoption, as well as the scope of its tasks. Article 14 of the Constitution defines the earth as the principal national wealth under the special protection of the State. The authorities are therefore called upon to carry out a set of measures aimed at ensuring the rational use and protection of land under market-based land reform. Article 186, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Code of Land specifies that the projected land use and protection materials in the project are subject to State expertise, which is carried out by the Land Authority, in accordance with the law. Unfortunately, however, there is only a provision today to carry out a state-level peer review approved by order of the Ukraine State Commission on March 11, 1997. So this process is regulated by a sub-legislative law, and as a result, it raises the question of the rightfulness of conducting a state-level expertise based on proper documentation. The absence of a law on State expertise in land-use documentation has a negative impact on the state of land reform. Considering that the vast majority of actions related to filing, removing land, changing their destination, selling, renting, assigning land taxes, and so forth require the development of appropriate land-use and cadastre documentation, filing, ensuring its legality, and technical quality, is one of the main factors for the continued development of land relations in the State. The vast number of abuses in the area of land management in Ukraine -- its main national wealth, the baseless embezzlement of recreational and health lands, the fragmentation of agricultural land, the deliberate underselling of the value of the land of state and municipal property, the sale of land for the general use of population sites, and so on -- requires a substantial strengthening of state control in terms of the legality and quality of the production of documentation. This project, developed in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, is based directly on the provisions of Article 86 of the Earth Code, and is based on the structure and content of the Ukrainian Laws on Environmental Expertise and Scientific and Technical Expertise. The draft laws define the tasks and principles of the State’s expert on land-use documentation and its subjects, the procedure for conducting State-owned documentation expertise, its terms, the competence of state authorities in the field of public expertise, the status of an expert, the qualifications of the expert, the qualifications of experts and experts, and so on. Let me draw that out. the non-adoption of this law does not provide for additional budgetary financing. The adoption of the draft law will make it possible to significantly improve the quality of land quality and land quality documentation, to ensure that objects comply with the principles of public, land and agricultural policy, environmental security requirements, economic efficiency, to strengthen the legality of decision-making and to take administrative action on land of all forms of property and, as a result, to create real guarantees for the acquisition and realization of subjective rights to the land of citizens and legal persons. For example, article 32 of the draft law prohibits the implementation of objects of expertise without its positive conclusions. That is, the legislator imposes restrictions on the execution of actions on the administration of state and municipal property in the event that project and technical documentation are not in conformity with the requirements of the law in force. In the absence of such a law, the requirements of the situation that is in place today are ignored, which regulates the conduct of the State’s land - record expertise. For example, a review of compliance with the requirements of Ukrainian law on land management in Odessa’s territory showed that the Odessa City Council is making decisions without the positive conclusions of the State Land Management Expertise on Project Documentation. 87 of these decisions have been identified. In fact, this has resulted in the embalming of recreational lands with communal property. At the conclusion of the talk, I would like to point out that today, in connection with the adoption of Ukraine’s new Earth Code, our country is on the verge of forming the principle of a new system of land legislation. There are some gaps that we are called upon to fill out: the adoption of the Rent Act, the valuation, the State Land cadastre, and so forth. But the use of land ownership at this time cannot harm the rights and freedoms of citizens, the interests of society, the environmental situation, and the natural qualities of the earth. The State expert on land-use documentation is called upon to act as a State to control the use and protection of land at the initial stage of land formation, i.e. to design and implement project decisions on land use. And so these actions can be viewed as protection by the State for the interests of society as a whole. To conclude, the committee supports the bill and asks for its support in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u73	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Alexiyovich Leschenko, head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u74	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations has twice considered the issue at its meetings. I remind the People's Deputies that at first there were two bills of state-of-the-art expertise, which were prepared by the People's Deputies Tomic and Tkač and by the People's Deputies Kozachenko. Later, they came to a common understanding and brought to the attention of the Supreme Council a bill under number 4018 entitled "The State Expertise on Earthly Documentation". The Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations believes that the whole bill sets out the principles, objects, tasks, procedures, and principles of State administration in the field of state-owned land-based documentation, rights, and responsibilities of subjects of State expertise. However, some articles need further work, especially with regard to article 9 and article 10 on subjects of mandatory and selective state expertise and the harmonization of the bill with the Ukrainian Land Administration Act. There's an appropriate conclusion from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, and the committee agrees with them. The main scientific and expert management is proposing that the project be based on the first reading. The committee, after considering this issue at its meeting, also proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u75	Thank you, Volodymyr Alexiovich, sit down, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Names of the national deputies on the board, please indicate what has been signed up for discussion. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin Get ready for Nemirowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u76	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Of course, it is heartwarming that the national deputies Tomic, Kozachenko, and Tkaj found a common language and united the bill, thus issuing a fairly decent bill. I'd like to say right now that I'm going to stand up for adopting this bill in the first reading, but I'd like to make some remarks to it. Of course, I prepared for the second reading of the remark if I hope that it will be accepted. I am concerned that we continue, as in article 2 of this law, which is called "Ukraine's legislation on state expertise", we foresee that legislation on state expertise is made up of this law, the Earth Code and other legislation governing relations in the field of state expertise. I'm very concerned about these legal acts that are now being referred to here, because there may be any decisions, orders, including a committee that solves problems with the land administration. And then there might be decisions like these, let's say they've been in a number of regions. And so far, I think that one of the main tasks of this expertise would be, right now, Kiyevrad was the only one who's in the clear that she just stole a limited-liability society under the signature of Kinach 23 hectares of land in the Vodice Desert. Only now has Kyivrad agreed to steal this land from the government or on behalf of the government and to hand it over to Dynamo-Kyiv. There's not enough people out there. By the way, this is definitely the look of it, the case where there is to be a national mandatory expertise, because there will certainly be no voluntary expertise there. I think it is necessary to specify the composition of the subjects of expertise that are envisaged in the article five, which are projected materials, land projects, State Land Cadastre materials, and others, by identifying what are related to projected land use and protection materials, land projects, land use and land protection projects, and land reform. It is difficult to draw a conclusion from the project on the relationship between the contracting authorities of the state expertise referred to in the article of the seventh bill and the initiating entities of the state expertise referred to in article 28. So I think this law can be improved, but I want to thank the authors -- Tomic, Cossack, Weaving for their drafting of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u77	Yes, Oleg Nemirowski, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Is there an Oleg Nemirowski? Yes, then Basil Nadrag. Is it? He's out. Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u78	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Head, dear colleagues! We are already looking at a second draft of the Ukrainian Law on State Expertise on Earthly Documentation in the first reading. Both the previous and these bills were submitted by the Ukrainian people's deputies. It is not clear why the draft law on this important issue has not been introduced by the government? The Cabinet of Ministers should have brought him to the Supreme Council almost six months ago. The government is known to have an appropriate land administration. Unless the State Commission is able to make this law, it's not a general political law, it's a special law. As for the substance of the law. It points to the fact that expertise is being introduced, not for the purpose of improving the quality of documentation, but for a fiscal purpose. I repeat, not for the purpose of improving the documentation, but for the purpose of producing a civil servant's bill of bribes from poor farming, bribe-gatherers. All kinds of documentation are listed, and they all have to be evaluated. But there's a rule in the state that work projects and technical documentation are not being studied. And this bill provides for the expertise of the State Commission, even the work projects of the selected areas, other technical documentation, where the bodies of the committee consider it at all levels of the administrative hierarchy and draw conclusions. Or take the architectural and building documentation that's planned to be an expert. Since when has this documentation become earth - decent? I wish that the list of documentation proposed for expertise did not withstand any criticism. It is also conceptually unwarranted that the law does not provide for the regulation of matters of expertise and its implementation by the Supreme Council, executive authorities and local governments. And with regard to the abuse of value and the sale of land, we socialists are convinced that they will not disappear after the adoption of such a law. A completely different law is needed: the prohibition, the moratorium on the sale and purchase of land for agricultural use for the term needed to remove criminality from power, and the change of power. Then there will be no peasants suffering from it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, all who have signed up, and therefore we have reason to conclude that the review of the draft Law on State Expertise on Land Documentation has been completed. This is document number 4018. The decision will be made in the light of the discussion. We're running out of time, but they're insisting on a draft law. If you don't mind, you've gone on for 15 minutes. This is a draft of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Investment and Innovation in Technology Parks. [[on the creation of an agro-technology park]] No objection, dear colleagues? We would consider it very briefly. Reporter: National Deputy of Ukraine Kalinchuk Vasil Antonovich. And the co-reporter is the head of the Nikolaynko Stanislav Mikolaiovich Committee on Science and Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u80	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, presented by the group of authors, the bill on making changes to the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Investment and Innovation in Technology Parks is based on the situation in agriculture and the APC as a whole. In our view, it is only possible to get this area out of crisis situations in a comprehensive approach to solving mature problems. Today, the APC is one of the most important to the country, but it has created an extremely large number of problems: outdated technology, energy and resource-efficient technologies, low levels of scientific and information security. A difficult demographic situation and a social situation. At the initiative of Minagroprompolitics, Minecology, Minosveti and the support of regions, and above all, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Dnipropetrovsk, Odessa, Hersonsk and other areas of the National University of Food Technology, a technological park is being set up, capable of initiating the innovation of the agricultural sector of the economy. In this regard, the drafters propose to amend the Ukrainian law on the special regime for innovation and investment in technology parks. Rather, to supplement this law by including agrotechn parks in the list of technology parks. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education, on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, on European Integration, reviewed and supported the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. In terms of the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the observations and proposals are partially taken into account and will be partially taken into account in furthering the second reading. Therefore, the general conclusion is that the bill is recommended for adoption as a basis. For the comments of the Committee on Finance and Banking. I would like to point out that the bill is in line with the Ukrainian Law on Taxation and Article 27 of the Budget Code, because the project of the Agrotechnopark technology park is based on the principle of no reduction, I stress, no reduction in revenue to the state budget. Technology parks don't have any benefits, because it's just a mechanism for implementing innovation and investment projects. I also want to emphasize this because some people say there are benefits. If an innovation project or an investment project is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, it is only then that some benefits can be granted for the period of scientific research and their introduction into production. The park’s special operating regime creates only a positive environment for the introduction of scientific technologies and the release of new competitive products. In the light of all the suggestions and comments I ask of you, dear colleagues. to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u81	Have a seat, please. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Science and Education, Nikolainka Stanislav Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u82	Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear National Deputies! Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I would like to say that today we are discussing a very difficult matter with you. This is about the food security of our nation. Please look at the situation in the agro-industrial complex today. We all came from the districts, I was in Hersonian, and we see the state of our village today. So this agri-tech park is actually a form of organization of work, it's creating such investment conditions that we can make our own efforts, by our own power, to organize the production of high-quality agricultural products, processing, especially these agricultural products. This can only be resolved by means of new technologies. We have them in Ukraine. But the processes of their implementation are, unfortunately, restrained. See, the government is proposing in the draft State Budget Act 2004 a moratorium on the creation of technology parks and the adoption of new innovation projects. At the same time, in a ferocious place, the President is holding a council on the innovative development of the state, a development based on new knowledge, proposing to support innovation programmes. I mean, the president's offering to back it up, and the government's offering to shut it down. I understand it's just a game. Today, more than 500 technology parks work in the world. Russia has started to build technology parks in an agro-industrial complex, and technology parks are generally created in the areas and territories of the most economically backward countries. In order to pull these branches up. Including our agriculture. John Kirilenko writes in the September 30th Government Courier that "in 8 months of the current year, agricultural production declined by almost a quarter compared to the previous year." Well, can we keep going that way? Today, technology parks are the only way to implement innovation policy. I want to tell you that in the last year, three technology parks operating in Ukraine have been implemented with an innovative product of 300 million dollars, exported by 120 million dollars, added 17 million dollars, created 10,000 jobs. The Science and Education Committee believes that technology parks should be created and run according to each of the priorities of innovation. We need an environmental technology park, and we need to get back to that. Now the question is about three tech parks, and we think we need to support them, is textiles, Donbass' resources and scientific devices. This is about providing schools with teaching equipment. The committee believes that this should be supported. He reviewed the agrotechn park bill and suggested that we accept it as a basis. The adoption of the bill was also supported by the Committee on European Integration, Environmental Policy, Environmental Use, Consequences, the Elimination of the Effects of CHEUS, Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. Because we have nothing left for self-investment as a form of this technology park. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u83	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyevich, will we comment? Deputy Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u84	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a twofold impression that I am familiar with this project. Why? On the one hand, I'm in favour of creating such an agrotechn park. On the other hand, I see that the law is insufficiently prescribed, what is the composition of the participants in this technology park, what kind of persons will be subject to the tax benefits provided for in articles 3 and 8 of this law. Because in accordance with article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime of Investment and Innovation in Technology Parks, the technology park is a legal person, I would stress, or the integration of legal persons, subjects of scientific, scientific and technological activities and entrepreneurial activities, which have been put into order by the Cabinet of Ministers, a joint activity agreement on the implementation of investment and innovation projects. I'd like to believe and I'd like all of us to believe, and that's what happened, those projections of the socio-economic consequences of adopting the law that's in the explanatory note to the law. It says that the State budget will be taxed in the first five years of 158 million dollars, and after the first five or 250 million dollars, which will be added to 92 million dollars. Oh, God, if that's the case. But I would like to say that for the time being, the bill is raw enough to be fully accepted. So now from the government, from the ministries and departments, and from the scientific institutions, we have to ask them to give us their calculations, which is exactly what, who gets in there, is going to be the participants, and who needs the benefits. These benefits should be clearly calculated. So we don't have what we already have in Ukraine in different zones. We have eight tech parks today, but it's exactly what we have when, unlike other countries, we brought wings here from the Volga cars that are 30 years old, and that was considered a scientific product. We've imported norse coats and stuff, it's all in the investigation papers, I'm not saying it out loud. So I wanted to prevent it. This law can be supported in the first reading, but it can be stopped, immediately complemented by a specific economy. Without this, it will be impossible to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u85	Thank you. I can't see Solomonine. I can't see a nigger. Mikola Fedorovich Krutz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u86	Mikola Krutz, Ivano-Frankivsky, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Chief, distinguished MPs! Before speaking on the substance of the bill, he would consider it necessary to mention a few general provisions. The changes proposed by the project relate to Ukraine's extremely important problem of innovation and innovation in Ukraine. For no one is the secret that it is innovation that can secure the release of competitive goods and services. In turn, innovation is always linked to the creation of new or improved existing technologies, which can only be done through new scientific results and development. So in order for innovation to have an appropriate effect, it also needs an appropriate tax and customs tax system, as well as State support, to stimulate the activities of technology parks, which is actually already defined in our country at the legislative level. The project proposes to extend this regime to an active technology park. According to an explanatory note to the bill, it aims to ensure the effective use of the scientific and technological potential of the food and processing sector, the establishment of high-productive agricultural production and the innovative development of the agricultural sector. Can we deny the achievement of such a goal? In principle, no. But with a few warnings that would prevent or make it impossible for someone to take advantage of the tax regime is not the aim of innovation. What is it? First of all, the scope and, above all, the subject of the technology park that is offered to provide the benefits of legal aid. In other words, making a decision on this question depends on the answer to what the park will do. Secondly, we need to know clearly who this regime is going to apply to. That is to say, at this stage, it must be determined who is part of this plant and whether all its constituents need tax and other tax treatments. Only on the basis of the answers can we come to a final conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u87	Thank you. Petnik Constantine Mercuryovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, I would very much ask you and other colleagues who are not in the room to support this bill. Why? We have serious achievements in Ukraine in the field of biotechnology, particularly in the field of biotechnology in general, and in the field of genetic engineering. But all these achievements today are not perceived by Ukraine. The government is conservative, as it were soft to say, I was going to say "criminal," maybe that's right, unless we can assess the fact that the budget, the draft budget, is written down: stop any innovation projects and continue to create technology parks. This is a huge threat to all the country’s innovative activities. Ukraine can't stay at the same level as it is today, so it's progressive. All the things my colleagues here said about what he said that he wasn't written down. But, you know, we're only changing one, adding a new agrotechn park. And this is the only one, and the last one is made with the hands of the Cabinet of Ministers, which, after the adoption of such a law, develops participants there, which specific tasks, which benefits or no benefits. It's all written down. So I fully support the head of our committee, Stanislav Mikolaiovich, of our Nikolaievich, and I support those who support them with warnings, but those warnings that have been made in various speeches, we're going to make sure that the Cabinet of Ministers keeps them alive. And the last. When we discuss the draft budget, I very much ask you to support our proposals, the committee's proposals, that we don't cancel the article that works for innovation, to introduce the best scientific achievements into our scientific institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-30-m1.u89	Thank you, Constantine Mercuryovich. We're closing the discussion. Our meeting time is over. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at ten o'clock. The issues identified in Wednesday’s meeting schedule will be considered.
