ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. And get ready to register. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:07:07]] Registered -436 There are 436 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. At 16 o'clock, we agreed to consider one question, the election of judges. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats and give them an opportunity to work. Because we agreed that we would consider the matter. I'm asking you to take over, dear fellows. We have an agreement. What do we sign, maybe I'll sign? Where do we sign? What are we signing for? That's the reporter. Matvienka, please, microphone. Where's Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u2	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the block of Yulia Timoshenko. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think this colossus could be solved by a telegram that came to your address on the election. I want to read it, maybe we'll really work. I read the original language. A team of workers of such a factory, only 880 persons, decided to bring to your attention the proposed changes to the general meeting on the draft proposed political reform. Given the need for timeliness of the conduct of the polytreform, we express categorical disagreement with the proposal for a proportional electoral system. In our general view, such an electoral system will not only weaken the national system.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u3	Thank you. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u4	The responsibility of the people's deputies lies with us.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u5	Please, the first deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Onischuk Mikola Vasilovich. Please listen carefully to your fellow believers. If there are any warnings, let them know about one or the other candidate. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u6	The Grand Head of the Supreme Council, the high-ranking national deputies and the high-ranking judges. Your opinion is on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree 4248 on the election of judges. You know that the Supreme Council is conducting this procedure with the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, which has recently been considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Legal Policy. In particular, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, part one of article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: Choose judges on an untimely basis: the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrovsk Region of Vladimir Yuriovich; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Truskov Mikola Mikhailovich; the Court of Appeal of the Žitomir district of Guzov, Oleg Grigorovitch, Mikitük Olga Yuriyovna; the Court of Appeal of the Zaporozhye district of Maslov Svetlana Petrovna; the Court of Appeal of the Odessa District of Horelkin, Natal Andriyevna; the Court of Appeal of the Suman District of Matus Valerius Viacheslavovich; the Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv district of Caplienne Igor Ivanovich; the local Mikhailiv District Court of Zaporozhye district of Samofal Yuri Vasilovich;
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u7	Smuggler, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u8	There's a note.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u9	Okay, there's a note.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u10	Judge of the local Kosovo District Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Turjanski Igor Evgenović;
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u11	There's a note, yeah, let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u12	Judge of the local Fastov City Court of Kiev Naumenko Mikol Antonović; Judge of the local Kirov City Court of the Luhansk district of Harchenka Hennady Antonovich; Judge of the local New Year’s District Court of Luhansk District, Muhin Ivan Ivanovich; Judge of the local Radehiv District Court of the Region of Lviv, Kondratov Igor Fedorovich; Judge of the local Brezneguvat District Court of the Mikolai district of Hapisz Viktorovich; Judge of the local Ananiyev District Court of Odessa, Nikolaychuk Valentino Alexandrovich; Judge of the local Ilchiv City Court of Odessa District of Lednyov Tetjana Vasilovna; Judge of the local Tatarbunar District Court of Odessa, Cheban Alla Profirovna; Judge of the local Shiriyai district court of the Odessa district of Cheruka Paul Mikolaiovich; Judge of the local Reschetil district court of the district of Poltava, Berkut Leonida Grigorovitch and Obedin Olen Ivanovna; Judge of the local Demidiv district court of the province of Ravenzul Petr Grigorovitch and Alexyuk Alla Alexandrovna; Judge of the local Dubensk District Court of the District of Ravenna, Bober Kazimir Fresvic; Judge of the local Connotapian District Court of Suma district of Kuschenk Mikhail Fedorovich; Judge of the local Krasnopil district court of the Sumak district of Primak Aleksija Fedorovich; Judge of the local Lebedinsky District Court of the Suman district of Chjil Alexander Volodymirovich; Judge of the local Romanian City Court of the Suman district of Kondratenko Ludmila Petrovna; Judge of the local Shastkin City Court of Suma district of Soldatkin Sergey Grigorovich; Judge of the local Kovpak District Court of Suma Alferorova Andrija Mikolaiovich; Judge of the local Shepetov District Court of Hmielnicke District, Mazur Nina Volodymyrna; Judge of the local Talalai district court of Chernigiv region - Kovalenko Volodymira Mikolaiovich;
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u13	Kovalenko, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u14	Judge of the local Chernigiv District Court of Chernigiv Province, Bobrov Irina Alexiyevna; Judges of the Military District Court of Vinnitsky garrison, Fedorizin Anatoly Vasilovich, and the Military Court of the Zitomirski garrison of Dobrovolski Anatoly Mikolaiovich. After this project, it's over.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u15	Sonchenko, what's your last name? It's a synchenka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u16	The Luhansk Region of the Kirov Court, called Harchenko. Do we vote then?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u17	Yeah, except for these, let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u18	No other warnings? Dear colleagues! I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the election of judges number 4248, with the exception of Samofal Yuri Vasilovich, Turyan Igor Evgenovich, Harchenka Hennadija Antonović and Kovalenka Volodymira Mikolaiovich. There's a vote coming, please. [[16:15:39]] For 400. Decision taken. There's an election law in this package, right? Samofal Yuri Vasilovich, come to the microphone. Who gave the warning? Microphone, please. National MP Baburin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u19	Vladimir Mihajlovich, we have an interesting situation. Judge Samofal had already been to the session of the Supreme Council and had voted in favour of 59 deputies. I don't know what we're talking about, it's high-rise jumps. It didn't work out the first time, it's gonna work out the second time? We voted in favour of Judge Samofal. What has changed since then? The claims remained old and the claims were old. 1998. From 1990 to 2002, fires. Nothing's changed, nobody's reconsidered. Again, Samofala's candidature appears at the session. It's like one big classic said, anons.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u20	I'm asking the committee to explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u21	Dear National Deputies! Indeed, as the national deputy Babourin rightly pointed out, on July 9, this year the Supreme Council considered the question of the election of Judge Samofal. During the meeting, the national MP Moroz expressed a number of observations about his activities, including the stories about the decision on the fire, the pies at the mini-carrying plant, and the elections. [[Anatoly, not Alexander]] Taking into account the discussion that took place here in the hall, he did not get the required number of votes. At the same time, let me read the transcript. "The decision that you and I have endorsed has given rise to a particular committee's return to the consideration of the matter. In particular, the decision was not taken at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council, which, by the way, was not made. was approved by the Chamber, and I ask the Committee to study the matter further and to make a decision essentially." It's a stenogram. The committee appealed to the Council of Judges of Ukraine and to the Supreme Court as the subject of the application to study in detail all the material relating to Judge Samofal and, by the way, the material that was in writing. After the committee recently received the appropriate results of the test, we did. The committee, after considering this issue, concluded that the circumstances referred to by Deputy Frost had indeed taken place, but the judges' faults in these matters, which would give reason not to recommend it for election, we do not see. [[I'll be sounding, by the way.]] In particular, the inspection was carried out at the direction of the Supreme Court of Ukraine with the judges of the Court of Appeal of Zaporozhye District on the charges of Suprun in a fire. The case came to trial from the DA's office in 98 and was repeatedly referred to further investigation. In 2000, the case was replaced by a lawsuit for the party’s trouble and was referred to the Basilian District Court. Judge Samofal’s judgment in this case was no longer handed down, and this decision was passed by a judge of another court for the prosecution. That's right. Right, Your Honor, we've checked the situation. The case involved a fire. The investigating authorities, when fires started and investigations were carried out, did not carry out a fire-and-technical expertise in accordance with the requirements, as predicted. And the judge had to assign expertise, as required by the Criminal Procedure Code, and that led to a certain amount of delay in the case. The appeal of a candidate in Bondarenko’s national deputies about the difference in the decision of the District Electoral Commission by Judge Samofal was not considered either. This was considered by another judge of this court, but not by him. In the civil case of the issue of the issue of the allocation of the property to the KSP "Majilowski" inter-household van. The establishment of a violation of current legislation is the conclusion, I stress, not our conclusion, but the conclusion of the Council of Judges of Ukraine is not established. The case was referred to the Wessel district court because the judge’s authority had ended. That is to say, Judge Samofal did not approve of this case either. The conclusion is the conclusion that came to the committee. There is no basis for drawing a judge to disciplinary responsibility. In view of this and in view of the fact that the committee directly, I emphasize, examined and, let us put it this way, considered this question with the participation of Judge Samohlov, we have come to the conclusion and ask you to support that there is no basis for non-approval of the judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, I think that the committee should in this case proceed in such a way that it should make a separate decision and inform first in order not to raise such questions. We would have voted separately. Andrew School, please. Is that why you're here?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u23	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I wanted to contact the committee. As it is, if the Supreme Council is some kind of higher legislative body there, making decisions in a court of law, we cannot at least consider documents in a package to finally judge. That's what makes you think you want to apply it to the rest of the candidates for the judge's election.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u24	I just said that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u25	So please, I want this to be the last time. And now I don't support, rule out, prepare for a separate resolution and put a dot on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u26	Rudzkowski. Then there's Baburin. Then Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u27	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we see that this judge is being dragged to the log. And it's once, Mikola Vasilovich, you're reporting and exhibiting the national deputy Baburin, as if he were giving the wounded unreliable information that you checked, the Council of Judges informed. The people’s deputy was approached, and that was only on the part of the things that the judge had done. I think if National Deputy Babourin were to go to the district and say that, well, what are the complaints against the judge, he would bring a whole volume here. I'm asking you, if this is a matter that has been considered, we need to invite any of Baburin's national deputies to the committee, and that's the question, if there are any such claims, to look at them and take them down. And now we have to count with his position, with the voter position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u28	Baburin, the Communist faction, then Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u29	Vladimir Mihajlovich, this conflict arose because in principle you asked the wrong question. You, when there are questions by judge, do not put the vote to the vote and instruct the committee to investigate and prepare for the next meeting of the Supreme Council. This time we voted, this time, July 9. Why does the question arise? The Supreme Council of Judge Samofal has adopted the decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u30	Vladimir Mikhailovich, can I explain? Dear colleagues, at some point, and there's some sense in what you're saying, sometimes we're looking at the referee's application. If the judge does not get the required number of votes in view of the comments that have been made directly in the committee room, then we are commissioning the committee to study these materials directly. If we report the material to the judge about the materials that came and the committee has considered it, but the national MPs do not share the position of the committee, then we vote, this decision is final. In the case you're talking about, the materials in Judge Samofal were announced directly in the courtroom. That is why the Head, from my point of view, rightly instructed the committee to examine the matter, find out, carry out a test, and only then, if he considers it sufficient, return to consideration. So I want to tell you that the accusations or claims against the Head are not something at the right time. And the hall needs to be defined. We considered the matter, considered it appropriate to bring it up for your consideration. Dear colleagues, you're making a decision, not a committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u31	Stanislaw Gurenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u32	Gurenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! I think we have a case to consider in compliance with the Supreme Council Rules. We have a Supreme Council decree. An attempt is now being made to review the procedure that exists, which, in principle, corresponds to the Rules. If there is a decision, I think the committee should prepare a motion for a different decision by the Supreme Council on this judge and then put it to a second vote. No other approach, in my opinion, can be here, but if you follow the Rules, at least until the next session of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u33	Masenko, please. Will you not?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u34	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am personally addressing you on this point, that when a vote is taken by judges and accepted, you have not obtained the appropriate result, you do not commission the committee on whether or not to consider the matter further. A decision has been taken by the Supreme Council, whether there are already interested institutions, the Supreme Court, whether they are preparing documents, whether they need to be served again or not. So you see, the deputy head of the committee is referring to your orders to prepare these documents for review, and that's probably not correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u35	Dear National Deputies! This assignment was delivered in the hall, and no one gives orders outside the hall, on the part of the presiding officer. That's the first one. The other one. That was because the chairman of the committee asked and I asked for the approval of the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council agreed, no one objected, then I did. Now I'm telling the committee's representative, the first deputy, that this commission, this issue had to be put into a separate draft of the ruling, informed essentially of the matter so that the deputies could make a conscious choice. With that in mind, let's take this problem down now, let's let the committee study and make further suggestions. The question is recorded, as far as Samofalov is concerned. Let the committee consider and report separately. Turyan Igor Evgenovich. Please, Roman the cook microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u36	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Again, there is a similar question. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has already considered this candidature, it has rejected this candidature and there have been no commission for the committee of profile to review the candidature of the Turkish Igor Evgenovich. I want to remind you what the reasons were back then. As a national deputy elected from the Kosovo region, I have received many complaints from citizens about the judge’s decision. In particular, the most violent facts were presented in the address of one family, that is, the whole family, who, according to the judge's decision, ended up in prison for what the woman said at the trial, the word'scrap', there was no more reason. I would also like to remind you that it is this family that has turned to the European Court of Human Rights. And in connection with this judge’s activity, it cost us 17,000 euros from the State Budget of Ukraine, for the European Court ruled in favour of the family and in the face of decisions made by Judge Turianski. That's why I'm asking you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that according to your ruling with the previous judge, you should withdraw this candidature. I want to remind you of the rule of law: the decision that the Supreme Council takes, if it is ineffective, is also a decision. And you can only consider this judge in the next session, not in the same session. I also want to remind you that this is exactly the candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u37	Microphone. I'd like to address the National MP personally, Roman Zvaric. As you had this warning, there were documents -- you had to come up or call and tell me. Now don't make any discoveries or make any remarks. Because I can't tell from this list who was before, who wasn't. And I trust the committee to report. You had the opportunity, give me the information. Please, from the committee of Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u38	Vladimir Mikhailovich, Judge Turyanski's decision was taken in the same session on July 9. And since the problem is somewhat similar in the sense of the situation itself, I ask you to support the committee's proposal: also to remove the Turkish Igor Evgeniovich from the vote today. A separate committee decision on this matter to prepare. We're going to prepare all the materials that apply to both things and stuff.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u39	I see. I then ask the committee not to hide the names of these on the general list and not to disturb the session hall. Harchenko Hennady Antonovich. Who gave the warning? Son of a bitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u40	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, reverend Mikola Vasilovich. As a national deputy, I have been repeatedly approached by voters who claim to act as Judge Harchenko. And for that reason, I sent a document to the committee on April 1, 2003 to take into account the voter’s comments. Already literally a week ago, I received additional materials that were not studied on the committee and were not taken into account in the consideration that give me any reason at all, as they say, to request the non-recommendation of this candidacy for approval by an untimely judge, but I am now not insisting on this issue, but I am asking the committee to consider the latest materials, and then to report here on the Supreme Council conclusions on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u41	Dear colleague, distinguished national MPs. I think we have this principle in place, if the committee doesn't get the materials on the judge's work, and they're already being submitted after the session, then we really think of it as a suggestion that it be one that it should be transferred to the next session, given that the committee didn't get these materials at the right time and didn't make a decision on them. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to make an offer regarding Judge Harchenk to transfer him to the next meeting to get the materials out.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u42	Is there no objection? This question is being considered. Next, Kovalenko Volodymir Mikolaiovich. Who gave warnings to respectable colleagues? Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u43	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. I took an interest in Kovalenka’s candidacy, which is recommended on an untimely basis to serve as Judge of the Talalai district court in Chernigiv district, and I explained the following. He graduated from the Institute in 1980. Internship at the judge's office for seven years and nine months. He served as the judge of the city’s city court. Released for personal conduct and actions incompatible with the position of judge. Then, for 13 years, he changed four jobs, from 1994 to 1999, and he did not work anywhere. From 2001 to today, it doesn't work either. All the work in the city of Rome. And now he is offered on an untimely, stressing, untimely basis as judge of the Talalai District Court. Why, then, is he not recommended in the Sumskie region? To whom it is convenient to extend such a nomination to serve as a judge of the Talalai court on an uninterrupted basis. In this regard, I ask my fellow Ukrainian national deputies not to support this candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u44	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u45	Dear colleagues! Volodymyr Mikhailovich, since the judge is in the hall, may provide an explanation for the warnings that have been made, and then I will comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u46	Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, please explain. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u47	I'm making myself clear. In 1990, after the end of my term of office as judge, I left the post of judge after the end of my term of office. There was an election. That's what I'm talking about. As for what they said, I was released on these grounds. In fact, I did not work for several years, but because my parents were seriously ill, I was alone in the Chernigian region of the Sydney region, which is next to the Talalai district, and I was at home in connection with these circumstances. I have a document to confirm that I really cared for my sick parents. It's been, like, two years and it hasn't worked.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u48	Dear colleagues! The Law in force, in particular on the status of judges, on the judicial system of Ukraine, requires those judges who are elected, in particular, by the local court or. The presence of a judicial internship. And in this case, the question is that this judicial internship should be, as it were, not necessarily just before the election. He has the necessary judicial internship under the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges. And the fact that he's not working as a judge right now, but he's choosing, is not an obstacle to his election. Please note that according to his autobiographical record, the judge worked as a national judge, including the Romanian National Court of Suma County, between 1982 and 1990, which means he is 8 years of age. In order to be selected enough 3 years of internship. A local court. No, that's another question. I answered the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u49	It's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u50	Vladimir Leschchenko. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, reporter. I focused on the actions of the judge of this one, who is being recommended all the time for headship, for the position of judge of the Talalai district court on an indefinite basis. He was dismissed for acts incompatible with the position of judge. Whether or not the committee has studied this question and what these actions are and so on, and why the rapporteur does not say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u51	That's not true. So I have everything, and, by the way, all the papers confirm. That's a farce, that's not true.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u52	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u53	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u54	Please be aware of the procedure. Judges don't come out of the street, they're being tried by the Supreme Court. In addition to this submission by the Supreme Court, the Supreme Qualifications Commission concludes that it examines all aspects of the judge’s work, including in cases where he has been breached by disciplinary action if the implementation has been violated. And that's what the committee's been informed about. In the materials submitted to the committee, we have received only the positive characteristics of this judge, i.e. the warnings from the Supreme Court, the judges, the Higher Qualifications Commission, which would give us reason to question his professional training and the possibility of being a elected judge on an untimely basis. So understand that the committee could not have made any other decision except to recommend it to the judge for work. I'm asking you, by the way, to support it, because every judge might have some kind of a prelude to work, but that means that. I ask you to pay attention to another situation. Other measures of influence may be applied to a judge who is wrong, and all of us are wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u55	A summary of the committee!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u56	a reduced class of judges, full or partial inadequacy -- and all of this is a means of reacting if the judge is wrong or does not allow any calculation in his activity. But the fact that we're with you is the highest level of influence already, the failure of the judge means that he has to allow in his professional activity such concessions that he really deserves to react.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u57	A summary of the committee!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u58	The position of the committee -- I support it -- is to select it on an uninterrupted basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u59	I put to the vote the motion for a committee to elect Kovalenk Volodymyr Mikolaiovich as judge of the local Talalai district court of the Chernigiv region on an uninterrupted basis. There's a vote coming. [[16:38:35]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u60	Dear colleagues! Your attention is on draft regulation 48. 4248-1 concerning the election of judges, in particular the local coastal district court of Odessa Ilchenko Natalija Anatoliyovna and the local Korat district court of the Provincial Region of Pavlovska Vitali Kostinović.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u61	There is a question in Paul’s case. Yes Ilchenko Natalya Anatoliyevna has no warnings? I'm betting on the election of Judge Ilchenko Natalija Anatoliyevna. This is the local Primorski District Court of Odessa. Please vote. [[16:39:41]] For three hundred Decision taken. Pavlovský Vitaly Konstantinovich, please come to the microphone. Stretovich, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, today we have a discussion of those candidates who have already been in the session room and have not obtained the required number of votes. With regard to the head of the Korean District Court, Vitalia Konstantinovich Pavlovski, I pointed out last time that the judge in question had committed many violations in his work, and the Supreme Court’s audit found his work unsatisfactory. After he failed to test us properly and to extend his term, the situation was not rectified. But with incomprehensible motives, somehow he's back in the session room. I report to the Supreme Council that I, on behalf of the committee after that session, directed the Committee on Legal Policy to 18 sheets of material relating to the activity of Judge Pavlovski. However, under strange circumstances, some of these materials were not distributed to members of the committee at yesterday’s meeting. This raises some surprises and doubts as to the objectivity of the committee’s consideration of the candidature. Moreover, Judge Pavlovsky has the right to assign his brothers or not to work because he claims that those who want to come to work in court will be put to work in court only if I leave. Therefore, I believe that the Supreme Council should help Paul to leave his office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u63	Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, I think we can stop the debate on this judge, given that this is also a vote that took place on July 9th, and given that there is also this warning in the Stretovic People's Deputy about the consideration of his materials. Then we will transfer Paul’s consideration to the same status as we have just rejected the judges, and we will make a separate decision, where we will distribute the material and consider it further.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u65	Sulkovian Paul, please. Then Plutinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u66	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For the second time, questions by Judge Pavlovsky are being put to the hearing of Parliament. And that's why today Mr. Stratovich is saying this, and the last time the committee didn't confirm the facts, and today it's not true. I'd like to tell you, honourable national deputies, that Mr. Stretovich has a personal relationship with Mr. Pavlovsky, and that's why he's acting that way for today. All those facts, Volodymyr Mikhailovich and the people's deputies, which Mr. Strtotovich cites, have been verified and not confirmed. This is my district, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and I know very well, and people treat this judge well. And that's why I urge and urge you to put the vote, and I call on the people's deputies to support this candidacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u67	Plutinski's national deputy, then the line, I've already announced. Then Stratovic will take the fall.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u68	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I want to say that what Mr Stretovich said is according to this judge, Pavlovsky, the request of all district, district organizations, that this is a decent person, and that what he really might have made during his work could have been a mistake, as they say it could have been. But all for choosing him. And so I ask you very much, honourable national deputies, let's choose not to play, as they say, on this man's fate. He is worthy to be a judge today. Thank you. And I ask you to vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u69	Streetwich, line up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u70	Thank you. Since my last name was called four times, I'd like to say that I had a renegade from "Our Ukraine." I'm in "Our Ukraine" and I'm staying in my position. And in my position, I am guided by the conclusion of the working commission of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, which examined the work of the Court of Korea and found faults there, that it should be released immediately and not continued indefinitely. So, if you'll excuse me, I haven't seen Pavlovsky in my eyes and I don't know what he looks like. So, I'm sorry, your lines, they're disgraceful. They say "misadventures." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u71	Onopenko Vasil.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u72	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, we considered these nominations yesterday until nine o’clock in the evening, including the problem of the national judge Pavlovsky. I would like to say that no document, including Paul’s, has disappeared on the committee. If we have any problems, we send the council of judges to the coalition commission, we get conclusions, we do tests. Yes, this court was subject to a comprehensive inspection. He worked there as the head of the court, and it was his fault that he improperly organized the work of the court, but the judges who made the mistakes there were dismissed. Today, we present to him demands regarding the head of the court, and we simply suggest that he choose a judge. According to the judge, he has no claim. Therefore, the committee has supported this candidacy and is today asking for your support in the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u73	People's deputy, Buiko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u74	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you personally as Head of Staff, as a respected man in Ukraine, and I insist that the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption has expressed its views on this candidacy. And Stratovic published it. I urge you to consider this position carefully in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u75	Dear National Deputies! The thoughts are divided, I'm asking you to identify the session room. The committee's proposal was to support it. I'm voting for the election of Judge Paulovsky Vitaly Kostinovich. This is the local District Court of Ravenna. Please vote. [[16:46:52]] For 235 Decision taken. Yes, please, next order.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, your weight is suggested in Order 4248-2 on the election of Judge Dmitrek Mikoli Ivanovich as judge of the local Sosnov district court of Cherkas.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u77	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u78	Dmitrenko Mikola Ivanovich is appointed judge of the local Sosnov district court of Cherkas. Yesterday, however, when the committee examined the application, we had no information. He was invited to a committee meeting, but he was absent. And we didn't have any information about why he wasn't here. A number of comments were made regarding his work. And in view of these observations, the committee decided not to recommend Judge Dmitrenck to be elected on a permanent basis. Today, however, we have received a letter from the State Judicial Administration, which reports to the Supreme Council and, in particular, to us that Dmitrenko Mikola Ivanovich is currently ill. So I think it would be logical for us today, given the demands of labour law, to take this issue off the table, and then, when he gets out of work, to go back to his consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u79	There's no objection to the committee's proposals? You don't? Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u80	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenka's Block of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The point is that since February of this year the judge, former judge Dmitrenko, has failed to carry out his duties, has not appeared at the committee meeting since February. He did not appear because he had reason to believe that the committee would never miss him. The Supreme Court of Ukraine conducted a review of the appeals that came to the committee, which contained evidence of the ordering of many actions, of the violation of the law on the removal of newspapers during the elections and so on after Dmitrenek Mikoli Ivanovich. And so given that eight months is paid to a person's salary, I'm offering to.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u81	Microphone. Stepan Cloud, please. Stepan Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u82	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Judge Dmitrenko, the man who cynically performed the order. This is the judge who illegally arrested 170,000 copies of Freedom in March last year. This is the judge who persecuted the editor of the newspaper "Freedom" Lalashka, who made an illegal decision, which was later annulled. I was directly in court. I could not imagine a similar cynicism and an act of law. In general, Judge Dmitrenko needs to be asked about drawing him to criminal responsibility rather than to be appointed on an indefinite basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, the proposal was for the committee to return to the consideration of the matter. The committee is now proposing to withdraw when it comes out, the committee will finally inform Parliament of its decision. Yes, I say, Mikola Vasilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u84	Yes, since he is sick, we do not have the legal right to make decisions about him. That would be a violation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u85	We have every reason to welcome the judges we have just assigned to positions on a temporary basis and to wish for all kinds of finesse. Please, Pocket of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u86	The Honorable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, which means that Judge Harchenko Hennady Antonovich was recommended by the committee's decision to be elected. And Mikola Vasilovich, with great respect, did not have the authority to make decisions on the matter. I'm asking you to ask questions about the definition of a hall. These are the accounts of a communist son of a communist with a judge for the election. That's not right. It's an election bill. I'm asking you to shield this man from assault.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u87	Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u88	Dear colleagues! Indeed, the Committee on Legal Policy considered Harchenko’s candidacy and decided to recommend it. However, a number of claims related to the judge’s activity appeared in the Chamber by Deputy Sinchenko. In view of the fact that we did not have a situation when we were setting up a hall and not checking the circumstances referred to by the national deputy, we made decisions, and I suggested that the hall consider making a compromise decision, moving the matter to the next meeting by checking all the materials. However, if a national MP, and he's the same as you and I, needs to be considered, I think it's for this matter to be determined or to vote in court or to support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u89	Basil Vasilovich Onopenko, please tell me about Harchenk Hennady Antonovich, because the committee decides to recommend first, then says move. Make a clear position so that we can make a decision. Sinchenko will be here in a minute. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u90	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, committee of the second meeting, honourable colleagues, did not conduct, committee held one meeting, there is one decision to recommend. If Mikola Vasilovich thinks it's his own opinion, he can make such an offer for the consideration of the hall, but I think if the committee doesn't make a different decision, let's vote and decide on this man's fate.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u91	I see. Sonchenko, please, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u92	Here, the deputy of Hapochka has allowed himself to speak in a totally incomprehensible manner. Neither Judge Harchenko has anything to do with the elections, nor do I have claims against Harchenko on election issues, nor has he participated in it at all. It is simply with this judge that there is a mass of comments and, including those that have not considered the committee concerned. So I repeat my proposal, so to speak. We need to consider and understand everything in order to be objective on all issues. No one insists that we do not recommend it. But you have to take into account all the materials you have. And what Pussy says is his personal, as they say. Well, he must have some kind of problem himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u93	Dear National Deputies! Since there is a committee proposal, there is the insistence of a deputy, the thoughts are divided, I put to the vote to determine the Supreme Council for the election of Harchenk Hennady Antonovich to the judge on an indefinite basis. This is the local Kirov City Court of Luhansk. Please vote. [[16:54:53]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Yeah, that's it. Thank you. We're done here. What? Carmazine is a microphone. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u94	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I simply want to know that the Committee on Dmitri has made only one decision -- to release him from office. [[This is Yuri Karmazin.]] The committee made no other decision. Another thought was that it was Miklai Vasilovich Onichuk's private opinion, so I ask you to pay attention to that and ask the question as the committee's decision has been made and how it's in your file. The other one. The committee was no longer on Dmitrenk's agenda, and he made no other decision. I explain as a member of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u95	I'm just asking the head of the committee and the committee to sort out a position. It's not its own position, it's the committee's. So that we don't get in the session room. Question completed. Dear colleagues! Come on, I'm asking you, let's exchange our thoughts for about 15 minutes or how many minutes it takes for us to keep working. I'd like to inform the distinguished national MPs that have been consulting among factions' leaders all the time. In fact, on the right. It all boils down to the fact that until the law on elections is passed on a proportional basis of the people's deputies, the work of the Supreme Council will not be effective or will not continue. Various options, various suggestions to reconcile the issue in parallel and hold meetings so far. Let's talk about it in the session room, maybe we'll find a compromise wise decision. Please sign up so that we can discuss the situation. Let's say 15 minutes, let's make suggestions in a minute. When there are proposals, we vote on them. On the board, please give us the names of the national deputies. Please sign up. 15 minutes. On the board, please explain. Master, please. It's a faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u96	Deputies! Vladimir Mystrishkin, faction "Regions", constituency number 14, Žmerinka. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to consider now a question that may not be political, but it is a very important administrative question -- about the changes in the boundaries of the Bara District of Winnitz. I asked this question because it is very important to such a small town. You know, it's been in the Supreme Council for over a year, and there are certain positions to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u97	Orest Klimpush, National Authority MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u98	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! As we know, there are several positions in the Chamber today among the deputies regarding the Electoral Law. This is the right of every MP to stand up for himself. And today, there is a large proportion of the majority of the majority members of the political parties who have political factions in the Hall, which I belong to. They also have the right to stand, have the right to stand up for it, but they behave normally, tolerantly, and do no demarches. There is no need to raise that question today. Today, there is a need for organized, civilized work on finding the consensus that our chairman mentioned in particular. I say, let's get back to business. During the consultations, we will look for the consensus that is only possible during the various negotiations. We need to be calm about what is not the only form proposed by someone today. There is world experience, there is the experience of civilized countries, we need to study it and use it peacefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u99	Thank you. Instead of Tsuko, Alexander Moroz, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, has the word Tsuko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u100	Alexander Moroz, Socialist Party of Ukraine Volodymyr Mikhailovich, respected, respected colleagues! On the Conciliation Council, I think we're getting close to finding a compromise version of the draft Electoral Law that takes into account the different positions of deputies. So I suggest that we act civilizedly, just as Orestes Dmitrovich has just said, we don't have to tease people about political reform, about elections, about coalition government, and so on, but rather prepare a version of the draft law that will govern everyone. But until we resolve this issue, we have no right to consider others. And so I propose, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you close the session today. And the next Thursday morning, you can decide whether the Conciliation Council should be held or not, we will listen, we will briefly vote on the Elections Act, and we will consider all budget issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u101	Yes, Leonid Makarovich Kravczuk, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u102	Dear National Deputies! Yesterday I thought we were in relation to the law on election in the corner. But today the door opened, and we are on our way. I propose that we go through this road and, let's say, what Stephen Gavrish and Alexander Moroz have already proposed today, and others, we need to join in and prepare a bill that suits the interests of all -- and the majority, and the party structures, and the Ukrainian electorate. I propose that we vote in favour of this law on the next Thursday, but we have voted that it is an integral part of political reform as a system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u103	Adam Martinyuk, delivered by Valérie Mishur, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u104	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Valery Dmitrovich, for the opportunity to speak. Adam Martinyuk, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, two points: first, I would like to make it very clear to those who are watching the sessions today, especially those who are going to write reports so that they don't go to the next simple one and, at first glance, a clear explanation -- the opposition blocked the session. It's not the opposition that blocks the session, it's not surprising, it's blocking most of the sessions. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues from most of you, there are many party workers with quite a strong background. And remember how we used to organize his study after each major talk. I invite you to gather, to study the President's speech, which was delivered on August 24, 2003, to study very well what he said about political reform, and to follow his instructions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u105	Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u106	Thank you. The faction of Julia Timoshenko, Eugene Kirilchuk, Volin. Actually, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we are ready to work, we are ready to work effectively. We know that political reform, which is a law that has been sent to the Constitutional Court, is signed by many who are blocking the work of the Supreme Council today and do not want to take the basis of this law. We agree with the changes, the additions, but we need to take the one that is best suited to this position and then we can unlock the work. If we're going to do that right now, we're going to take into account, for example, the observations of the Social Democrats that there are other people who have their sentences. Then we can move forward.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u107	Thank you. Victor Musiak. Group "European Choice."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u108	Dear colleagues, trying to vote for one of the bills today shows the impossibility of simply breaking through with any one of them. So we have to use famous parliamentary methods in this case, just parliamentary methods. What is the method? I think we need to create a special commission that needs to be tasked by the Supreme Council to process these bills, all the proposals that are yet to be made, but it needs to be given a task, to draft a law on the election of national MPs on a proportionate basis. And then all the suggestions that have been made today have to be worked out. And with regard to taking into account the interests of those majors and those who speak out of the party. I don't think we have a normal parliamentary path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u109	I just want to say, Victor Lavrentiovich, this proposal is not clearly accepted. So we might not be talking about it as a method. But there are positions that are essentially getting closer. Then we could draw closer to each other and work in Parliament at the same time. Kulczynski, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u110	Please pass the word to Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u111	"The People's Movement of Ukraine," Victor Yushchenka's block, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, and the situation that has arisen today around the vote on the Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies, shows sincerity in the intentions of implementing the political reform of every political force represented in Parliament. Now I think there were very symbolic words: let's come up with a law that takes the majority interests into account. But as far as I can remember, here in the hall, the mayors spoke of their representing the interests of the electorate, not their own. Yes, perhaps we will be preparing such a law that will suit the interests of the electorate, the Ukrainian people, and not those of the oligarchs who have gathered in some part of our Parliament. So I think the problem here today is that everything has become clear. And in terms of elections, I think today is more relevant than the Presidential Elections Act on a national basis in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u112	Thank you. Microphone. Instead of Gorbal, Bastrig, please, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, we are again, well, in such a political deadlock. Where are we in a hurry? Elections to the Supreme Council in 2006. Let us take a constructive step: to adopt this year's budget, to set a working week for these political issues to be discussed for a full week without a vote. When we come to a consensus, we put the vote to a vote. Why do we put ourselves in such a light to the people again? Our faction proposes to resume the work of the Supreme Council and to vote on the programmes that we have adopted on those laws that we have adopted. The budget will end, after which the urgent work will be done: one, two, three, four, five, to discuss them deeply and to move them into the session room. A week to discuss, a week. We'll come up with a solution anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u114	Thank you. Valentina Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u115	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, first of all, I'd like to say that Alexander Alexander Moroz clearly expressed the faction's position. I support him, especially since this is the position of our faction. I would like to contact fellow members of the national deputies, especially those who remember the constitutional night when we were in the session room, just in the session room, we accepted the Constitution. You mention another thing, they're bringing an imperfect document into the session room, but we accept it as an ideology, and then we sit down and we work together to move. The president told us the ideology: political reform, the electoral system on a proportional basis. And that gives us the opportunity to talk about what we should do in the session room to adopt the Law on elections on a proportional basis, to take into account the first interests of voters who should be clearly seen, to come to power, to form a government and to be held accountable, to come to power, to be held accountable.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u116	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u117	Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Ladies and gentlemen, not the first thing we see in this room is a disgusting painting, where there's a choir of boys lurking behind the head of the Supreme Council, tearing down, blocking our work, and then it seems like some kind of acquisition for happiness, for the people. I would personally understand how these factions would have rebelled against some of the shortcomings of social issues, ideological, conceptual principles: minimum wages, pensions, the status of UN-UPA soldiers. Enough with the sick head on a healthy head. Political reform is increasing the responsibility of power, it's overcoming elements of alienation and power. Why do we not have the right to consider other matters until we adopt the Electoral Law? Who came up with this? One man. Who is he? He's a national MP, just like all of us. Why aren't we allowed to work? Who gave the right to blackmail? Why is the standard not working? And we've heard this before: all power to the parties, we'll live better. That's not right. I strongly protest cynicism and wickedness on the side.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u118	Valerius Emptyovetenko, NDP faction. Well, now, Phydenko. A wasteland, then a Phydenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u119	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I thank you for giving me your word and I want to say that we will be consistent. I want to emphasize once again that today is a four-day vote, as well as two weeks ago, and four bottoms back, the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is broken, and I express my dissatisfaction. I appeal to our voters in this regard to help. And I'm going to propose right now, as I suggested in group meetings and factions. Today we will hand out a protocol of political agreements on the conceptual and technological aspects of the implementation of political reform in Ukraine, which we fully support. I would like the faction leaders to support our proposals as well. And the second document. This is a timetable for the implementation of political agreements regarding the implementation of the conceptual principles of political reform in Ukraine. I think that if we even adopt the Elections Act, which will satisfy everyone and everything, then on the next Thursday again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u120	Phydenka, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u121	Stanislaw Phydenko. I also support the proposal that we should first consider the Proportional Elections Act and continue to work. Please give the floor to the Deputy Domanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u122	National Deputy Domansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u123	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! We've been running elections on the Supreme Council all the time, but list one, Vladimir Mihajlovich, if you don't agree, say yes or no, is one majority in Banking, 6, and you participated when 100 per cent of the parties and passersby were there. We want only parties to make up a list, not a bank list, six, as some MPs say, 100 per cent of those who go there. We know how. And the second. I'd like to ask you, did you hear the rockets whistle in Artemovsk? You may have heard when you were a child. Today the Supreme Council has not listened to what they call, what they sound like, and how much is it worth to the Ukrainian people? I'm asking you to take this into account with the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u124	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! We've been exchanging thoughts. Let's think about it this way. Since we have many unvoted documents, we have a 10 - hour parliamentary hearing on Wednesday. Let's hold parliamentary hearings, and then spend the rest of our time making decisions, including if we're working on first considering the issue of elections and continuing to work. I mean, Wednesday and Thursday. We'll have two days then. We'll be looking at the budget on Thursday. But we have to vote to get a full-time job on Wednesday. Right? Huh? Well, let's maybe do it on Tuesday. But let's make a decision then. Please, Stanislav Gurenko. Dear colleagues! So let's figure out how we're going to continue to work. We're gonna split up right now, and we're not gonna make any decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u125	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I. For 30 seconds of your attention. And we did a work day on Thursday, so we could go over the budget in detail. And we need to work on the committees. We haven't gotten the budget material yet. If we want to engage in political reform, we need to change the order of the day to four. Today, there is no new budget note. We'll get them to the committee, God forbid, on the weekends. We have to work with them for at least two days. What are we doing?Oh, my God! What is this vacchanal for, Volodymyr Mikhailovich? Let's start a normal session day on Thursday. On Wednesday, committee meetings should be held in addition to parliamentary readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u126	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Are we not going to continue our work today? Should we vote on what decisions? Are we going to work or not? Well, let's do it by 6:00, even though we'll look at some documents. We've already agreed on political reform. I'd like to ask, let's maybe at least make some decisions. Catherinechuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u127	Dear National Deputies! I understand the desire of many national MPs to adopt any laws. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these laws are not being implemented, as is the case with most of the decisions of the Ukrainian citizens. So the element of political reform is that we create policies that are responsible. What are we talking about today? We say today that we need to start political reform on this very issue, because without responsible politicians all these declarations, all these speculations and nothing more. I propose to support the proposal of the honourable speaker regarding Wednesday, but I would like us to start this work by discussing the question of proportional choices.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u128	Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u129	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Perhaps our situation today once again reaffirms the rightness of those who offer to return to their old standards of work. If we had worked as we did before 2000, we would have no need to vote in favour of voting for the winning end, for the second, third or fourth day of the vote. Let's still accept an amendment to the Rules with you, where let's say that every question that's discussed is taken immediately, let's not wait for Thursday. Look what happens to us on Thursdays. Now you can say that you and I discussed some laws six months ago, until this day they were not adopted. And when we start adopting them, we're essentially reorganizing the discussion of these laws. So I suggest, Vladimir Mikhailovich, let's do it when we get together on Wednesday or Thursday and make one of the first decisions to work and adopt laws every day, and we don't have that kind of value.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-16-m1.u130	Thank you. Why don't we just make a few decisions in 18 hours? There's nothing left to do. Oh, no, I don't understand. Let's work fast. I'm announcing a draft law on information activities. Rodionov Mikhailo Kuzmić. Tell them to sit down and make some decisions. Well, we made a deal. We said we'd be looking at it on Thursday. Let's make any decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, this is your consensus, this is your agreement. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we work according to Friday’s schedule.
