ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:45]] Registered -400 Four hundred national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, distinguished guests, there is a delegation of the MPs in Kiev with a working visit. Majlis of the Republic of Azerbaijan from inter-parliamentary relations with Ukraine Today, members of the delegation are present in the session room. Allow me, on your behalf, to greet the distinguished guests, to wish them fruitful work, and to take this opportunity to convey our sincere greetings to all the deputies. The Majlis of Azerbaijan, the friendly Azerbaijani people, and the desire for peace, happiness and well - being. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Cicchanova Sergio Vladlenović, let's welcome him and wish him all the best. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.4. I'm informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Kosinov Stanislav Anatoliyovich, from the Democratic People's Party. Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 30 minutes to announce requests, statements, messages and proposals by Ukrainian national deputies. People's deputies are invited to sign up for statements, messages, and suggestions. In the meantime, I'm announcing the parliamentary questions that have come. Please explain. One more message. The change of the authorized representatives of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine will be represented by Ukrainian national deputies of the Vasuk faction, Gladys, Jeremiah, Slavuta, Tereshuk. Let's move on to the state-of-the-art question. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Valentina Savitsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the timely financing of the gasification of Baranivsky, Emilczynski, Olevski, Novograd-Wollin region of the Žitomir region. Please vote. [[10:06:23]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Gennadia Astrova-Sumilova to Prime Minister of Ukraine in the absence of a response to the request for the installation of mine renter 71 "Industrial" of Rowenka Lugansk Region and payment of the wages to miners. Please vote. [[10:07:00]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the restoration of the production of the Verchni Rogachi gas pipeline of the Great Lepeticha in the Hersson region. Please vote. [[10:07:32]] For 133 Decision taken. Eugene Hoornik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the reorganization of the administrations of pine labor in the Ivano-Frankow region. Please vote. [[10:08:00]] For the 120th. Decision taken. Mikoli Catherinechuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of Ukraine's laws on the status of war veterans, guaranteeing their social protection in the area of the provision of road transport for disabled persons. Please vote. [[10:08:31]] For-182 Decision taken. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the removal of acts by the government of part of the low-income families of social assistance for children. Please vote. [[10:09:01]] For 148 Decision taken. Andrija Škila to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the return to the religious community of literates and monasteries in the city of Lviv, who are in the process of organizing the "Kretelekom" stock company. Please vote. [[10:09:32]] For 116 Decision taken. Igora Tarasjuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the repayment of the debt from the benefits provided for in the Ukrainian law on the rehabilitation of victims of political repression in Ukraine Please vote. [[10:10:00]] For 113 Decision taken. Victor Drachevsie to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the alignment of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' decree of 01.10.97 with the provisions of the Ukrainian law on value added tax. Please vote. [[10:10:34]] For 106 Decision taken. Igor Yukhnovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the joint order of a number of ministries and authorities of Russia to establish mandatory migration maps for Ukrainian citizens when entering and staying in Russia. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:11:07]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Simonova to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the district hospital and secondary school complex and a residential building in Monastirsk Ternopil district. Vote. [[10:11:38]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Igora Jeremeyeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the approval deadlines for the list of objects financed by the subsidy for the implementation of the investment projects provided for in the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for this year. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:12:14]] For-97 Decision taken. Boris Rajkov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the insufficient implementation of legislation on the social protection of victims from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Please vote. [[10:12:41]] For-191 Decision taken. Sergey Slabenka to the first Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine for the construction of socio-cultural objects in the village. Please vote. [["10:13:08"]] For-100 Decision taken. Alexander Golub to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitri Tobacco, on violations of the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine, the Lviv Regional Administration of the Pension Fund of Ukraine. Here we go. [[10:13:39]] For 109 Decision taken. Mikoli Tomenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on non-constitutional rules of accreditation in the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of Media Workers. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:14:11]] For-164 Decision taken. Leonidas Cherneweckovsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the fact that there was a surgery without anesthesia in Kiev City Clinical Hospital. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:14:41]] For 109 Decision taken. Bogdan Kostinuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of property in the agro-firmation of the owner of the interpreted area of Ivano-Frankow region. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:15:09]] For the 180. Decision taken. Istwan Haydosh to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the transfer to commercial structures of the architecture of the 16th-18th century of the Muchakov Castle of Palanok. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:15:39]] For 169 Decision taken. Andrija Polita to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the deliberate blockade of Kirovogroblaner energy supply in the city of Kirovograd. Please vote. [[10:16:11]] For-98 Decision taken. Mikoli Rudzikowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of office and the violation of legislation on the privatization of municipal property objects by the management of the Black Products stock company. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:16:45.]] For a-117. Decision taken. Bogdan Kostinuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the liquidation of the debt owed by Galicsukor to sugar suppliers in 2001-2002. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:17:19]] For 113 Decision taken. Leonidas Grač to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of the mass exterminations from the markets of the Simferopol Municipal Company Autostop. Please vote. [[10:17:49]] For 121 Decision taken. Michael Dobkin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the establishment of Ukraine’s State Customs Service in the actions of senior officials. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:18:18]] For-98 Decision taken. Catherine Vasuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of farmers in the agricultural sector. The Dvoričan district of Kharkiv. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:18:47]] For-92 Decision taken. Jury Solomatin to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with the incomplete consideration of the request for falsification of the tender for the sale of the construction site "Citizen Center" in Kiev. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:19:17]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Mikoli Katerinczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of land legislation in transferring the land of the village of Nova Grebl Kaliniv district of Winnitsk to the rental of Agrovinprom. Please make up your mind. [[10:19:50]] Z-91 Decision taken. Leonidas Grac to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the hidden trade in land on the southern coast of Crimea and historical monuments in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Please vote. [[10:20:21]] For-141 Decision taken. Vladimir Anishuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of the theft of collective property in the Ananov region of Odessa. Please make up your mind. [[10:20:51]] For 106 Decision taken. Vladimir Shandry and Paul Ignatenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of legislation in the state-owned enterprise The National Energy Company Energoatoma. Please make up your mind. 0:21:24 For-68 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the basis of official receipts from the Lviv District Attorney’s Office, on the question of the legality of the residence permits in the city of Zovkla Lvivsk. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:21:55]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Vladimir Yeshchenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unlawful actions of the head of the Cherka District State Administration regarding the agricultural production cooperative "Leskivski". I'd like to make a statement. [[10:22:26]] For-97 Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the payment of wages to the employees of the Macarov sugar plant of the Hmělnice Region and the illegal alienation of the property of the company. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:23:00]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Stepan Cloud to the Attorney General of Ukraine for drawing me out of office for illegal dismissal from the post of head of the Secretariat of the Hamic for absenteeism. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:23:35]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Peter Simonenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with the violation by the Prosecutor of the Autonomous Republic of Ukraine of the Crimea of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, on the question of the termination of the powers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:24:09]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Mikoli Shershun to the Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine in connection with the lack of response to the parliamentary appeal regarding the use of the capacity of the Sarnin plant for bridge technology. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:24:45.]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Mikli Sokirka to the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine for the renewal of the train on the route of Žmerinka Popeluha. Please vote. [[10:25:15]] For-79 Oleg Gumenyuk to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the quality of the preparation of motor vehicles. Please vote. [[10:25:42]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Victor Musiyaki to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine for the redeployment of the military from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to the city of Kyrovgrad. Please vote. [[10:26:08]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Minister of Science and Education of Ukraine regarding the efforts to close the Korkowa public education school number two. Please vote. [[10:26:36]] For 106 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Ukrainian Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection of the Population against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster on violations of the status and social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Please vote. [[10:27:09]] For 124 Decision taken. Viktor Drachewski to the Minister of Transportation of Ukraine for the construction of a walking bridge at the Nicopol station and the crossing of the railway line at the Nicopol-Bud-Nicopol race. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:27:40]] For-93 Decision taken. Alexia Kozachenka to the head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources in connection with the violation by the Odessa City Council of the establishment of territorial bodies on land resources. Please vote. [[10:28:10]] For 128 Decision taken. Leonidas Cherniewsky to the head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service regarding the existence of smuggled goods and the shadowy implementation of small-scale goods. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:28:41]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Jury Karmazin to the head of the Coordination Committee on Combating Corruption and Organized Crime with the President of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for bringing to justice the responsibility of the prosecutor of the Lviv district of Renazevsky for the abuse of office, for the negligence of the service, for the corruption of more than 140 million dollars. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:29:23]] For 175 Decision taken. Michael Dobkin to the head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service for violations by officials of regional customs officials of the requirements of applicable legislation. Please vote. [[10:29:50]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Anishuk to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine for the enforcement of antimonopoly legislation by the media. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:30:19]] For a-117. Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the head of the Coordinating Committee to Combat Organized Crime with the President of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Transportation of Ukraine to return to the property of the Warming State of Sergey Sadowski and to bring the guilty to justice. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:30:59]] For 121 Decision taken. National Deputy of Ukraine, Andria School, to the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the purpose of re-examination of the circumstances of the illegal movement of the General Consulate of the Russian Federation in Lviv. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:31:38]] For-89 The decision is not taken. National Deputy Georgia Manchulenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for compensation to citizens affected by an accident in CHAES in the constituency No. 203 of the Chernivian region. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:32:12]] For 131 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Anatolia Istawajka, to the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the abuse of office by the officials of the Wat Yenakiyev cement plant, the theft of manufactured products and the non-payment of wages. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:33:00]] For-98 National Deputy of Ukraine Ivan Mihowich to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the preservation of the Uzhgorod Professional List. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:33:28]] For-126 Dear colleagues, not without the signature of the parliamentary address to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the signature is, but the name has not been given. Is that what you're saying? The signature is--no last name. The National Deputy of Ukraine to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the falsification of the results of the elections in the city of Hartziska Donetsk and the abuse of the position of the city's head, Láshenko. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:34:26]] For-98
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u2	For -98. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, today you are being reviewed by the Program of Activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, "Discovery, Activity, Performance." Committee on Economic Policy, Governance. Honorable national MPs, according to the Rules of Half an hour, are assigned to make statements, messages, and so forth. It's been 35 minutes. Yes, then we should either not make any parliamentary inquiries or make statements. We're always going for a violation. Let's translate, let's make all the statements on Friday. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, I am acting. Let's not. I say again, according to the Rules. Joseph of Winsky, please read the Rules. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, half an hour is spent on everything and 45 minutes is spent on everything. Honorable National MPs. Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! I'm asking for your attention. I want to explain the situation again and then to your solution. According to Tuesday’s regulations, it takes 45 minutes to make statements, including the requests that have been voted on, and statements from factions. We usually do. An additional 45 minutes were allocated for a certain breach of the rules for making applications, since there were so many requests. The same is true of Wednesdays when we are married for 30 minutes. National MPs insist that we now have 30 more minutes to make applications, queries, queries, information. So I can put a question to the vote and ask for a vote. Since national MPs have been enrolled, and there is the insistence of national MPs, I am voting to take 30 minutes to speak with national MPs with applications, queries, reports. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:38:14]] For-160. The decision is not taken. The Committee on Economic Policy, National Administration, Property and Investment proposes such a regulation for consideration by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. He invites the Supreme Council to adopt such a rule. For the report of Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovič, Prime Minister of Ukraine, 30 minutes. To answer the question, within 40 minutes. To report to the First Deputy, the committee head is up to 10 minutes. For performances from factions and committees, up to five minutes of performance. One and a half hours away. For the country's national MPs, it'll take up to three minutes and 20 minutes. And the Prime Minister's closing word is up to three minutes. Is there no objection? Then let us move on to the question. I invite you to speak with Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u3	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Members of the meeting, representatives of the media! The Cabinet of Ministers programme is designed in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and is based on the positions of President of Ukraine's letters to the Supreme Council, which are designated by the Head of State for urgent and long-term tasks. It is the result of the joint work of government officials, national deputies, representatives of regions, the public, and scientists. The program was widely publicized, including at public hearings. The main positions of the Program are supported by the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. In particular, I would like to stress my fruitful cooperation with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for which the government expresses its sincere gratitude to all. In the new form of interaction, we have been working with the Supreme Council for the past five months and have had positive results in addressing the key problems of our nation’s development. I want to stop at some of them. First of all, the result of our work together is budget execution in the first quarter. We have an increase in the total revenue of the state budget of about 20 percent and tax revenue of 34 percent. The income of the general budget fund of the state budget was 24 percent higher than in the corresponding period of last year. Expenditures were carried out according to budgetary assignments. We gave up manual spending management. A 100 percent funding is being made for the general fund's salaries in the budget area and the provision of military personnel, pensions and social protection for the Chernobyl population. Communal services and energy services are fully funded. Planned grants, alignments are made by 103.5 percent. Moreover, all of this has been ensured in carrying out significant government debt obligations of some 2,700 million dollars. We are working purposefully to pay off the debt of a social character accumulated in recent years, but we understand that this year is not the only problem. Secondly, the adoption of legislation on the prejudice against the laundering of dirty money and the removal of FATF sanctions in their development, together with the National Bank, in accordance with the approved schedule, is taking steps to bring these laws into force in a timely manner. Thirdly, you and I are working hard to improve tax legislation, we have concrete results. The Income Tax Act has already been passed, and we have come out on the final line from the income tax of the natural person, on the turn of the value added tax law. Working together with the National Deputies in action demonstrates the results of professional, constructive discussion and addressing key problems of economic development, the formation of investment resources and the construction of a viable internal market. This incomplete list of our joint actions shows that the primary tasks of the program are being implemented, the government is executing and the government is working as the only team. Our cooperation with the Supreme Council for concerted action with the National Bank is strengthening and developing positive trends in the socio-economic development of the State, which is also certainly the result of the great work carried out by deputies of past calls and previous governments. This is an increase in the first quarter of GDP by seven percent, and industrial production by about 11 percent. In January-February exports, goods increased by almost 24 and real average monthly earnings by more than 18 percent. Unfortunately, there remains a huge legacy of problems and economic imbalances. In fact, the obstacle to accelerated economic growth is based on an investment-innovation model for the development and achievement of the well-being of Ukrainian families. First of all, it is capitalist and a resourceful production structure that is overly sensitive to the fluctuations of the world’s environment. The weariness and moral depreciation of the production funds, the high tax pressure, the low level of pay, the meager nature of the budget. The problems and the negative consequences associated with them to all of you, the distinguished national deputies, are well - known and have been discussed in this room many times. During the formation of our preelection programs or appointments in the government, we all set the goal of furthering our efforts to overcome poverty and excessive income distribution. Enhancing the well-being and quality of life of our citizens. The possibilities and free development of the personality based on sustained economic growth. Where can you get the resources needed to grow? In the last few years, we have finally come to the conclusion: we need to improve the taxation system, reduce tax pressure on businesses and citizens' incomes, and then create the right conditions for working in the official sector of the economy, transparent, open, without concealing their incomes, incomes, wages. And what's most important? It's to restore people's trust in power, to give impetus to entrepreneurial initiatives, including small and medium-sized businesses, to build up their own investment resources, and to provide the right conditions for foreign investment to be involved in technological restocking, scientific research and innovation, to create high-productive jobs, to increase the skills of workers and to pay for their work, because they are our future middle class, to form a viable demand and to develop an internal market, to ensure the competitiveness of Ukrainian production, and to increase the activity of our producers in world markets. But tax reform is just one of the tasks that needs to be addressed in order for financial resources in the bloodstream of the economy to be able to breathe and develop freely. So in the program, the government has identified a number of urgent tasks and mechanisms for their implementation that need to be implemented in a simultaneous manner along with tax reform. This is a pension reform, a reduction in the burden on the payroll fund, the establishment and protection of investor and creditor property rights, the improvement of corporate governance and the development of the stock market, the further development of the financial sector, joint investment institutions, insurance and pension funds, and other non-banking institutions. The task is very difficult, and their solution requires hard work with the Supreme Council. On the other hand, the government has developed a number of appropriate legislative initiatives to Parliament, such as the draft Act on Shareholder Associations. We are also taking all necessary steps to ensure the functioning of the government commission in regulating financial services markets. Our shared responsibility is to achieve transparency in the functioning of the entire financial sector, to earn citizens' trust in pension and investment savings and investments, and to create conditions for their profitability. The government is developing and will simplify the process of induction and exit of business over the course of the year, based on the principle of a single office and its registration. Supervisory functions will also be arranged for the inspection of business entities and to ensure that the principle of personal responsibility of officials for making ineffective regulatory decisions is met. Next, we have approached the privatization of the country's most important economic objects, which determine the basis for national security of energy, transport, information, food. We have to move away from the fiscal principle of privatization. The main thing is to form an institution of effective owners, professional managers, and to involve the financial resources of the economy, not to eat them. The bottom line is to provide an investment and innovation model for privatization, to ensure national development interests, to actively manage the property rights of the state, to strategically important enterprises, especially the fuel and energy complex and transport. The draft privatization programme for 2003-2008 has already been introduced to the Supreme Council, we are ready for constructive cooperation and further joint development of individual approaches to privatizing strategically important objects. About development priorities. In recognition of the priorities of Ukraine’s economic modernisation, we need to rely on our own competitors of advantages and high-tech industries. This is primarily the missile and space sector, the airplane and the engine building, the goods of public consumption, transit transport and pipeline transport, biotechnology, KPC, engineering, electrical engineering, the development of information technology, the agro-industrial complex with its unique capacities for the production of environmentally sound products. It is these trends that require credit support from the banking system. The work already started by the National Bank. In turn, the government is ensuring implementation, as well as development with the International and European Banks of Reconstruction and Development of a number of projects in the fuel, energy, agricultural, transport and space sectors, as well as in the field of information. World experience shows that the driving forces to achieve the phase of post-industrial society in economically developed countries have been responsible for innovative development. These factors are primarily related to the extensive use of intellectual resources, such as knowledge, human qualifications, intellectual property, and advanced technology. Therefore, the Programme, along with the measures to ensure increased financial resources for innovation and investment, provides for the introduction of a public procurement mechanism for priority innovation projects. The Cabinet of Ministers will support breakthrough scientific and technical research. It is already being prepared in conjunction with the National Academy of Sciences to list the most promising available for development. The same work will be done quickly in the field of science. The government's position is in line with the position of most pragmatic scientists and economists who believe that the state can be strengthened only through a reorientation and a technological and technological option of economic growth, which is based on an accelerated movement in the innovation cycle: science, technology, production, consumption. The key task of the government is to ensure the competitiveness of the agricultural sector. The appropriate mechanisms currently under way are aimed at providing targeted support to farmers, improving their efficiency. Programmes for the development of the fuel and energy complex have been carried out in conjunction with the Supreme Council's profile committee. They envision major structural distortions in this strategic sector of the economy, increasing the effectiveness of State support for coal reform, strengthening the energy security of the state. In particular, I want to stop at a residential farm. The depth of the problems in this area is impressive. The government is confident that by implementing the measures outlined by the Programme on structural change in the field and improving the capacity of the population, we will ensure responsible work of executives in the centre and in the areas of order in this social and social sphere, namely, providing quality services to the population, making it impossible to waste, monopolistic tariff increases and the elimination of viable consumers of housing and utility services from pay. Ladies and gentlemen, we are deeply convinced that the best software document can remain only a declaration if its performers are not patriots of their state and are accountable to the people. Officials should exercise their professional activity to gain the right to look at people honestly in their eyes. Each step we take will be aimed at improving the welfare of the people, the extent and quality of the social services that the State should provide under the Constitution, primarily through the development of education, culture, science, health care, the comprehensive solution to the problems of humanitarian development, the humanitarianization of the economy, the improvement of the pension system, social services, the assistance of many families, the strengthening of the Ukrainian family and a healthy way of life. As well as ensuring the rule of law and the security of the state. That's why we have to live and work. So in budgetary policy, the government, first of all, has announced an increase in expenditure on social and humanitarian development. The crisis of vocational and technical education and the lack of attention to the training of engineering personnel in higher education have led to a shortage of professionals and skilled workers in basic jobs. This problem needs to be solved immediately. We have to re-establish secondary school and vocational and technical education. Let's raise the profile of the work of our teachers - our other parents, who lead to the work path of resistance and the hope of Ukraine - our children and grandchildren. A strategic solution is to increase the competitiveness of workers, engineering personnel and professionals will be the main one in the day-to-day order. We need to create conditions for a healthy lifestyle, starting with a school gym and a playground. And, of course, the prestige of physical culture and sports. In the area of pension insurance, pension increases are already in the current year. We urgently need to jointly finalize the drafts of the National Pension Insurance Act, on non-State pension insurance, and on their phased implementation. It is understandable that only with a substantial increase in pay will we be able to move on to a full - scale reform of health care. At the same time, the quality of medical services, such as emergency treatment, outpatient treatment, and medical benefits, needs to be greatly improved today. We need to develop and implement national social standards in the area of health care and to ensure a guaranteed level of state free medical care. First of all, we will care for those most in need of support from the State, especially those of the elderly, disabled, war veterans and workers, pensioners, children, and mothers. Funding will be increased and we will create conditions for the full support of culture, creative activities, the approval of Ukraine's high cultural image in the world, the development of Ukrainian language. An urgent task in all socio-humanitarian ways will be to raise the level of pay. Based on the budget's capabilities this year, we're going to be able to make a minimum wage of 185 dollars and bring the ratio of office salaries into line with it. This is supported by trade unions. By all means, the government will contribute to the development of public society, the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms, the improvement of the quality of living conditions, the improvement of the environment. The government will focus on ensuring the rule of law and the establishment of professionally trained, patriotically configured Ukrainian Armed Forces. We will deepen administrative reform, dramatically improve the work of the executive branch, improve the effectiveness and accountability of our decisions. In order to achieve effective results in this important direction, the Cabinet of Ministers will restore production balance and consumption of the most important products. It will ensure the calculation of the basic, macroeconomic, redistributive proportions of the state's GDP, the ratio between end-consuming and investment, and the remuneration of labour in GDP structure. These calculations will prejudge the development of economic and social development programmes as well as the state budget. Work will include medium-term budgetary planning, the development of strategic and annual plans for the work of executive bodies. We're going to organize state-of-the-art programs, and we're going to ensure that they're realistic. In the area of government finances. Let's focus on their enhancement and effectiveness in practical application of the software target approach to budget development and implementation. All budget programs will be passported. We will need to complete the transition to treasury budgeting at all levels. In the area of local finance, we will improve the proper distribution of transfers on the basis of transparent and objective criteria that take into account the specificities of individual regions and regional programs, primarily for depressed areas. A resource base for local budgets will also be increased. We need to reinvigorate the practice of planning for the forward-looking development of Ukraine's territories and settlements. We'll put in place the arrangements for borrowing local budgets. With the aim of warning corruption, the government will ensure the transparency and competitiveness of public procurement procedures. For price-weighted groups of goods, put in place tenders based on the principles of inter-ministerial coordination. In debt support, we will continue to work on optimizing the structure of government debt, maintaining its volume in appropriate payments within economically secure limits. The implementation of the provisions of the program also involves promoting the empowerment of local authorities, executive authorities and local self - government authorities. Strengthening interaction with regions in the preparation of state and regional programming and financial documents. This will also benefit today’s hearing in this room. Development of cross-border cooperation, including Euro-regional cooperation. Our activity will be transparent, the Cabinet of Ministers will ensure that information about budget spending is made available. Each supervisor will report to the public after the end of the financial year starting in 2003 for what and how he spent taxpayers’ money. Performing software tasks will create the conditions for getting the economy out of the shadows and its ever-increasing growth. By the end of 2003, we are forecasting an increase in GDP of 5-6 percent and in 2004 about 8 percent. This dynamic will stimulate an increase in real wages in 2003-2004 by an average of 12-15 per cent, and with a substantial reduction in the income tax of individuals from 40 to 13 per cent, this will seriously support the growth of the welfare of the Ukrainian family, each Ukrainian. Clearly, the program cannot reveal the full algorithm of the government’s actions in achieving the stated goals and tasks. We're ensuring that the plan is implemented, and it's already working on strategic planning today. The preparation of every decision that has a major impact on the social economic development of the state will be comprehensively based on the interests of its citizens, individual, especially vulnerable people, as well as on ensuring our strategic interests and national security, and will be comprehensively justified in defining the problem, analysing the reasons, developing its solutions, discussing all the pros and cons, and only then making the optimal decision, taking into account the available resources and the expected social results. Only after such a decision has been taken will new laws and changes be made if necessary. Such standards will enable us to make our work more transparent. As far as the decisions are clear to the public, the government will work in a balanced manner, not in a fire - extinguishing mode. Cooperation with the deputies and the legislative process will become more effective. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the government, let me once again thank you for your support for the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers in the course of its consideration by the Committees of State, Deputies and Groups. Your observations and constructive proposals for improving the measures outlined by the Programme are a confirmation that our joint work has been, is and will guarantee the success of Ukraine in the process of restoring its domestic producer, creating high-productive and decent jobs, actively moving Ukrainian goods to external markets, and then continuously developing and implementing our Euro-integration aspirations, achieving the well-being of the Ukrainian people, the well-being of the Ukrainian family, every Ukrainian citizen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u4	Yes, thank you, Victor Fedorovich. Dear colleagues, the report is closed. I'm asking you to sign up for a question to the Prime Minister. We had a deal for 40 minutes. Please state the name of the national MPs on the sign. Oleg Petrov, NDP faction. You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u5	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, please pass the word to Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u6	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u7	Dear Victor Fedorovich, the program, particularly in section 3.6 "International Cooperation" is: "Finishing the negotiating process on Ukraine's application to join the WTO." I would like to ask, and I know that much has already been done by this government in order to join the WTO in intensifying this process. What do you predict to do in the near future? This is the first moment. And secondly, I quote, "Ensure the publication of the results of Ukraine's State integration policy towards the EU, including broad public information on these issues." Dear Victor Fedorovich, in those countries that are moving towards the EU and are successfully moving, first of all, the Baltic Republics, the entire state and non-state information machine is trying to show the benefits of European choice, the benefits of EU integration and so on. How do you think you can fill this thesis with real meaning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u8	Thank you. This issue of Ukraine’s entry into the WTO is one of the priorities of the Cabinet of Ministers’ activities. From the first steps we started to work on this issue, and recently there have been a lot of bilateral meetings at the level of the States where the most agreed to sign the common protocols. A very important step has recently been taken -- this was the signed protocol with the European Union. Three other protocols were signed. We hope that this work, which began with the preparation of the protocol for Ukraine's entry into the WTO on February 25th, will be taking turns, and we will be aligning our joint actions with other states as soon as possible. This work should be very balanced. We understand that when we sign these protocols, we must protect the interests of our domestic producer, the interests of our nation. So the approach to signing protocols in the government is very hard, we're looking at this question, every paragraph of these protocols we're looking at very carefully, we're studying, we're attracting scientists, professionals of different levels, and we're never signing a protocol until these positions are fully agreed upon. We understand that having a membership in a respected world organization is not a major task, it is a major task to have the economy's effectiveness in making such a decision, and we will work on this issue, honourable deputies, always with your opinion in mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u9	Vadim Gurov, National Authority MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u10	Dear Victor Fedorovich! Vadim Gurov, Krivbass. First of all, I want to say a little bit about good. What I noticed may not be everything, but anyway, I noticed as an industrialist. Every year, 15 million Kravbass goes into a separate line for restructuring. For nine years, I've been a deputy, nine years of torture, one minister to the Prime Minister to make that money available. As a result, only seven were allocated from 15 million last year. On the positive side, there seems to be a system in the new government, and in the first quarter, a prison is placed in the prison for each month, and I think that this trend in the system of implementation of the budget will have to continue. That's good. Now for the question. You know how much noise and screams are now around "The Crush" and "The Crush" is Krivbass, that's clear. And the GOKOR goes in parallel. I don't know who separated them separately, although the GOKOR is the Creature Mining Combine. One thing I see is that if we don't look at this problem in the complex, we're going to have a lot of trouble with rail raw materials. How do you feel about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u11	That's a very interesting question. Thank you for your kind words, but I am already being criticized by some members of the Government and they say that it was more interesting to work in the Cabinet of Ministers before. I think we will try to comply with the budget schedule and we are confident that it will be met. As far as Krudprom is concerned, this problem is very painful in general in our State. There are a lot of problems here. The main problem is economic. The second problem with the economy is the formation of the property of mining combinations. You know the owners aren't united. And today there is no government programme in large measure. And the very important question that we should not forget is environmental, environmental. Today, it is almost a matter of regret. And I think the people of the region have already faced this problem. Regrettably, as long as this situation remains so. But we will approach this issue as soon as possible. And here I will appeal to the distinguished people's deputies so that we can approach legislation in the formulation of a package for the sale of such facilities. There must be commitments by investors for environmental activities. With regard to the formation of property. I can say that, to date, it has been formed to some extent, but the latest actions that have been taken, namely the Ingulek GoQ, have resulted in, I would say, economic damage to our State. And we will shortly, in the coming days, approach this issue with the involvement of all competent authorities in this matter. As far as GOCOR is concerned. GOKOR, you know that this is also a painful place in our State, and the disease is very long ago. Since the establishment of the concept of this enterprise, the history of this issue has been largely flawed. Today, this combination has no other option but to consider it as a separate project with Ukraine's major international obligations. And we're working on this issue right now. We have already held a number of meetings with very serious investors from various States, metal producers, who are now very interested in participating in the privatization programme of this enterprise. And, of course, these negotiations cannot take place in only one Ukraine. You know that there are obligations of Ukraine to Romania, there are obligations to Bulgaria, and of course we also have a lion's share in this package, Ukraine. As this enterprise is located in Ukraine, we will still coordinate this issue, taking into account the views of our foreign partners in a mandatory manner and taking into account the effectiveness of the future investor. And this question, I think, will be considered in April, May. The information on this issue will be transparent.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u12	Basil Calinchuk, deputy faction, sorry, Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u13	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I think you'll give me the floor to speak from the rostrum, and I give my word to my colleague, Borgich Alexander Ivanovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u14	Alexander Borzih.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u15	Alexander Borzih. Agrarian party. Dear Victor Fedorovich! Looking at the government’s project, it is a pleasure to note that the purpose of this document is clearly being pursued. This is an improvement in the quality of life of the population and further economic growth of the country. In this regard, I would like to ask you this question. The project foresees a real wage increase of 12-15 per cent in 2003-2004. However, there is no language for a population category such as pensioners. To date, the smallest pension before payment is $86.90 apiece. Are they expected to increase their pensions on a given scale, and how will this be addressed? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u16	Thank you. It's a very painful question. The program provides for an increase in pensions and there is already a pension increase schedule since February 1, 2003, and it will be phased out. You know that increasing pensions has several ways of solving this problem. First of all, the source of financial revenue is the real increase in wages and the deduction from the wages of our citizens. The second is pension reform and this is pension insurance. Therefore, I am confident that the real increase in pensions for retirees will begin and that an effective increase in pensions will begin when you and I adopt a law on compulsory pension insurance. And there will be several sources of pension funding, there will be opportunities to create a system of effective pension increases, I'm sure it's a matter of question, honourable national deputies, we're going to have to accept it soon, it's already matured. So given your opinion, the government will implement this law and create all the conditions for increasing pensions for pensioners.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u17	Mikola Yankowski, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u18	Jankowski, town of Gorlovka. Dear Viktor Fedorovic, the programme you have presented today, with which we have been able to get to know each other carefully sufficiently progressively, where GDP and other indicators of social life have been high. In this regard, a number of problems will have to be addressed, together with the Government, the Supreme Council, and above all, the protection of external markets. To date, unfortunately, enterprises themselves are struggling to protect these markets under unequal conditions, with amendments such as Jackson-Venig, a number of other restrictions. Today, you have answered this question in part because Ukraine will join the SOT. However, the former Governments did not take sufficient measures to protect the producer. In this regard, the question of what measures are envisaged for this purpose. And the second question is the economic growth in the programme, which will certainly not be achieved if we fail to implement the plans that are set out to increase exports. In this regard, I have already asked the question, and once again, I stress that this is a problem of paying back the value added tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u19	Thank you. The issue of protection of the interests of the manufacturer is multi-planned and very vector-oriented. One of the major issues is the protection of our exporters. We know that for many years our exporters have been having problems exporting our products to markets in different countries. And as far as the European Union is concerned, our partner, who is now the second in importance. A mandatory condition for improvement, I would say, is that the climate for exports of our Ukrainian products to the European Union is the recognition of Ukraine by a market economy State. We've come to this very point. I think that this issue will be resolved soon. I'd say two or three months. We have not yet been denied the European Union, and the latest negotiations that were in Brussels and the meeting with Mr. Roman Prodi, we have not heard a refusal, but we have not heard a positive response, unfortunately. And now we are working very hard and putting this issue in principle before the European Union. We work with members of the European Union. The most recent meetings in England, Germany, Greece, Switzerland, although Switzerland was not a member of the European Union, but it had made its views public, and the President of Switzerland specifically said that it was not clear which political reasons for economic reasons the European Union had not yet adopted that decision. With regard to markets of other States. Of course, for us, the United States market is a very important market. We are now working on this issue, working very hard, working very hard. And, well, we probably already have real hopes that this climate will soon improve for Ukraine, and, even now, in Congress, we have this kind of information. The United States Congress considers some decisions towards positive developments in relations with Ukraine. We also hope for the revitalization of our exports in other States. You know that it has recently been decided on the effectiveness of our trade and economic missions. I'm here talking to MPs, leaders who work actively in the external markets. And you know that, in fact, the practice of the world, it shows that, as long as representatives or representations of trade States do not work directly with producers and consumers of goods, there is no efficiency in the markets. To a certain extent, our trade and economic missions have been, well, squandered, I would say. And we know that, and that's what our producers are saying, and by the way, our partners. Therefore, a number of leaders of our trade and economic missions of various States have now been reappointed and have been working with them to strengthen our trade efficiency and our, I would say, aggression in the external markets. This is a mandatory condition, and if these workers do not have such qualities and if they do not report for the results of their work, there will never be any efficiency. That is why we are systematizing this work and will seriously strengthen it as soon as possible. With regard to the value added tax. That's a very painful question. We joined you recently quite recently, as early as December last year, in adopting the budget and taking a decision and including the return of 1 billion grivens to VAT this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u20	Jaroslav Suhi, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u21	We will address this problem, and, of course, I hope that this law, and it is put back in place for May, will return to VAT on schedule, I hope that it will be adopted and that this will be an opportunity to resolve this problem, as it is said to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u22	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u23	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDP. Victor Fedorovich, yesterday when I met the faction, I asked you this question, and I want to repeat it today for the transcript of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The question concerns chapter four of the Governing Body. I quote, with regard to creating favourable conditions for the development of domestic production, the introduction of high scientific, competitive technologies, the reduction of dependence on imports. Please tell us how the government, such as the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Transport, is treating the class's import plans in Ukraine, which are produced in Ukraine, and is also planning to transport them without tax and without duty. And the second question. How is Ukraine's Government implementing the "Minimum Wage 2003" Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u24	I said very briefly in my speech that we are working on creating conditions in the priorities of our industry. This is the priority of both airplane building and automobile building. We have been with you, distinguished national deputies, in these businesses, visiting, talking to workers, and today we are very careful in our investigation of the problem. First of all in the negotiations, in the last negotiations of the joint commission with Russia, we stood back and included in the protocol a common issue on the development of AN-70. You know, this is a very important question for our country, because this is a 95 percent project today. And Russia’s debt obligations to Ukraine, we consider, in a mild sense, that they are invalid. That's why we asked that question. First. Finally decide whether we are partners in this project or not. This is the claim of the rights of our domestic manufacturer. That's the first one. The other one. The last meeting, the last trip and the first meeting at the Volkswagen concert, was very important because the Volkswagen concert is a very developed enterprise in the world. And today, Volkswagen is a partner of Ukraine. You know, the Eurocar business works, it's built in the Zakartat district, and it works effectively. But we need to consider the possibilities of our car building. And in order to do that, you and I have to adopt a law on taxation of cars that. To take cars to Ukraine, which provides for 28 percent tax collection. This law will be considered soon in Parliament. Workgroup created. I think it's a very important decision, a state decision. So let's get balanced about this problem from all sides. A working group has been set up and I invite honourable national MPs to take part in this issue. The government will not assume a separate responsibility in making this decision. This is an important national decision. Let's take it together. Let's take a look and take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u25	Yuri Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine What else? Oh, minimum wage.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u26	According to the minimum wage, I have already responded in my report that we have now done everything on a minimum wage to make 180 dollars in Ukraine a minimum wage. With regard to the final question and the introduction of the law, the issue is discussed at a minimum wage of 237 dollars. The possibilities of the budget in this room are known to all, by the government. This issue is now at the level of the political issue. You know how this decision was made, this law in this room. So I don't want to drag this issue into government or myself. We're open. I've said it and I'll always speak plainly. Let's think about the possibilities, if we have them, let's take 500 dollars. I'm willing to take 500. We'll have the opportunity, we'll see the sources of funding, let's take it. Don't corner each other or play with the expectations of the public and our people in Ukraine, but let's deal with the issue clearly and openly. If we're partners, let's work partnerly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u27	Yuri Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u28	Please give the floor to the deputy to Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u29	John Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u30	Dear Victor Fedorovich! You were very curious about the social sphere, and I listened. But I'm taking a few facts, and I'm thinking about how they fit into your beautiful program. Fact number one. The government has just bought, at the order of March 28, number 176, two armoured Mercedes, about a million dollars, I understand, it's a social election. The second, and at that time, the pay for teachers is not increasing, although long ago it was promised. And you say 180 dollars today, the minimum wage, and you remember that it's 185 and 237 in the second half of the year and something that the government isn't cooking right now. Fact three. Your government has passed a bill to reduce savings by almost 100 billion dollars. So we're essentially lowering people's hopes, I'm only talking about hope, five times. And at the same time, you're talking about taking care of people's trust in savings in banks and savings in pension funds. How does all of this relate to your specific actions? I was wrong, it wasn't the bracelet, it was the dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u31	Thank you. We're familiar with you, I remember, started with humor, and so I'm going to answer you with humor and now we're going to continue our traditions. If you're talking about armed cars, they're bought by a lot of us in the army, the government's driving regular cars, and if you have that information, it's confirmed that someone was buying an armored car at the expense of the budget, I'm telling you from this rostrum that we didn't. That's the first one. I'll tell you, believe me, we understand all this and we have a little more conscience. That's the first one. The other one. At the minimum wage, I've already said, if you haven't heard, I'll answer. I'm here to make 500 bucks with you and me before you and I make a decision -- 500 bucks. We took it here, we voted, I executed it, and you and I lifted the booze for our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u32	Basil Nadrag, National Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u33	By savings?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u34	By savings, yes, 20 times.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u35	Thank you, Lugansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u36	You know this is a very serious question, it's not humor. But we didn't make that decision; we're going around it. And I think that this decision is not going to be made without the participation of the national MPs, it's going to be made in this very room. And we're going to work on this issue, taking into account the opinions of the deputies, it's a very serious decision. And I answer that if someone made a mistake or said, if anyone wanted to do this, in the government it was being considered, it was such an offer, but we took that proposal off and we're going to consider it very carefully. I answered your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u37	Basil Nadrag, National Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u38	Dear Luhansk, People's Choice. Dear Victor Fedorovich, I am usually interested in social protection issues and paragraphs 2.1.2.2 have been studied and discussed in detail. But in this case, I am interested in a more global issue. How to make the documents, which are called the Government's Programme of Action and which are sufficiently strategic, fill in the actual content of the implementation mechanism. And when your colleague attended our group meeting, Victor Anatolyevich Hayduk, we expressed our wish that it would be good for the Government, as a result of the discussion and adoption of this programme, to develop on the lines, for example, within the same government committees, detailed plans for the implementation of who and when to do what. As a result, we would have received a document in which time, responsibility and specific tasks would have been written, and, more importantly, if this document were still agreed upon and worked together with the Committees of the Supreme Council, I think we could then expect that we would have a tool with which, with both large and serious but strategic, I ask forgiveness, paper, but there would still be an action plan for everyone, because if there are answers, when and what he does, then there is a chance that this will be done as promised and as it should be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u39	Thank you. I said this very briefly in my statement, but I think that most of the people's deputies, especially those with whom we are said to have worked more closely on specific issues, know what the Government is already working on today can be said using a software-based method. We will make it mandatory after the adoption of the programme to develop a plan for its implementation, where all the tools for the implementation of the programme will be put in place: by implementing entities, by time of implementation. There will be mandatory reports by managers, both small and large, both sectoral. As well as regional. After that, we will draw conclusions, and this will all go out loud. But you do understand that respected people's deputies, that the program, it will change depending on what laws will be passed. That is why we will be in this programme, the mechanism for implementing this programme will include both the preparation of relevant laws and the adoption of their timetables. We have already had a preliminary discussion on both committees and factions, and we have discussed this with the leadership of the Supreme Council. If we were to adopt a joint programme of preparation, consideration and adoption of the bill in parallel with that programme, it would be the most predictable and realistic in its implementation. This is therefore a proposal, and we have made this proposal. If you don't mind, then this is a matter for discussion on the coordination board, then on the factions, so that we have a real mechanism for implementing the programme. And that's what we already have in the nation, as we say. All right. In addition, I believe that the question of the people's deputies at the meetings has been raised very often and that the structure of the programme needs to be done in accordance with the plans of the Supreme Council and in accordance with the budget adopted. I mean, that's a question, too. We're only taking the first steps, the first steps. And let's do them together. The proposal is clearly here, which of course we must consider together. And I suggest that we consider this issue as soon as possible. As for responsibility, it will be raised in the implementation of the programme and will be raised to the highest level and report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u40	Valerius Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear Vector Fedorovich, you submitted your program to Parliament almost a month ago, and by the way, you criticized the government for submitting the program without waiting for the President's letter. Yesterday we heard the President's message. Very thorough. From the point of view of the report, it may be small in time, but very thorough materials, documents. By the way, I'd like to tell you as the government manager that you didn't submit anything to your program: no graphs, no tables, no calculations, nothing visual. Well, if you'd learned from the President, I think she'd look a lot better. Now to harmonize the program with the President's message. There are many differences. Well, for example, the President is putting strategic tasks ahead of the government. You don't have anything strategic in your program, not even a priority. Let's say the President says in 2003 a million to pass on property rights to the land. You don't know how much to publish until 2006. The president says to build a bank of reconstruction and development, a mortgage bank, we don't have that. But the main difference is that you're privatized. The President clearly sets out the task of making the privatization order and continuing the privatization process. You've actually even talked to us about reprivatization at a faction meeting. You've got some very familiar courses with the President, that's fine. So I'd like to ask you a question: don't you think that you should somehow harmonize your program with the President's message, agree on it sometime? And so it turns out that you're actually going, well, not in all matters, of course, but in some, strategically, against the President's course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u42	Well, I think, first of all, you've been reading the program carelessly, first of all, and you've been listening to my speech unheededly, first of all. The other one. All these questions that you highlighted, they're on the program, and there's no differences in us. We discussed this very seriously and thoroughly with experts who work alongside the President, counselors and so forth. So it is very important that all branches of government work together in our country. We're asking this question, and when I go to the Supreme Council, and I'm not talking to this rostrum for the first time, and I say let's work together, it's going to be very good for our state, for Ukraine and the Ukrainians. I'm asking the branches of government to work with me first. There is a desire, and we must always take it into account in our relationship in order for Ukraine to develop and people to live better.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u43	Do you have an explanation? Yes. Please, Assadchev's clarification.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u44	Victor Fedorovich, I wanted a little line. I've read your program and not once. And because I was the only one who was involved in the development of Victor Yushchenk's program, and I was just curious to put these two programs together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u45	Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u46	Victor Fedorovich, I'm right here. Victor Fedorovich, I want to say that I read and listened carefully, you saw it. I have two simple questions. First. The general, I think, is a lack of programme, and this is noted by the Scientific and Expert Office, it's declarative, it lacks what and when and how much. And that's the question. The Communist faction has made specific proposals in a number of positions. This relates to unemployment, social benefits. Question number one: Will you analyze and take them into account? That's one question. And the second question. You said or mentioned only the space industry among the high-tech promising industries. I would like to ask, but to recall, a law has been passed on five such high-tech routes in Ukraine. I get the impression that they don't read it, they don't know. And specifically electronics. Is that the direction you're looking at in Ukraine that's already finished as a high-tech industry, or is it said that there's only one space industry left?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u47	First. You see, in order for me to talk about this, and in the last answer to the question, I stressed that the implementation mechanism should be placed under this programme. In order for this mechanism to be developed, it will have many volumes, you know? So if you've seen the previous program, let's say, or the program that they're talking about, they have the Yushchenka program, they have different styles and different order. We have set ourselves the goal of making the programme the most realistic, but it must be accompanied by a mechanism of implementation. As far as priorities are concerned, you seem to be. I've seen you listen carefully, but probably not enough, not enough, yes, not enough. From now on, I list the priorities that I don't find. Bye. But this sector, electronics, is a priority, and it is highlighted in this programme. And not just space and aircraft. I said about many, so to speak, really promising, as I called them, "piercing scientific and technical research," which is already being prepared with the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine today. If we have a well-founded scientific and technical solution, you and I will have such programs. But the state emphasized and emphasized it. I'm reading, "Determining the economic modernization of Ukraine, we have to rely on our own competitive advantages and high-tech industries -- this is primarily the missile-space sector, the airplane- and the motor-building industry. Transit transport and pipeline transport, consumer goods, biotechnology, KPC, machine-building, electricity, information technology development, agri-industrial complex, etc. I'll give you that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u48	Thank you, Victor Fedorovich. Time's up. We've done something. Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! So let's say that if you were to take this proposal so that we don't take a break, because we have to finish this question by 14 hours, and we have a lot of speeches and discussions. Is there no objection? None. Then I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national ownership and investment by Vladimir Anatoliyovich Demijokin, for up to 10 minutes. Then let's move on to the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u49	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear Victor Fedorovich! Dear colleagues, people's deputies and members of the Government! The Economic Policy Committee is today presenting a consolidated evaluation of the Cabinet of Ministers'Programme of Action, based on the conclusions of the Committees of the Supreme Council, the Deputies and the factions. Detailed consideration of the Programme was held at a meeting of the Committees. I am now briefly presenting a summary assessment, as I have already said, that synthesis is mainly based on evaluations of the Programme carried out in committees, factions and parliamentary groups. The conclusions and proposals are presented on the table, where you can see the date and content of the decisions by the committees and factions. The Committee received 289 proposals and comments from 12 committees, one Communist Party MP, two "Democratic Initiatives" and "The People's Government" members, and one national MP, the national deputy of Geidosh. The proposals and comments received affect about half of all the programme's three hundred active tasks, with all the proposals received qualified as follows: 208 of them are a supplement to the Programme, 52 are editorial changes, and 18 are proposals to delete individual tasks. It should be noted that, with a large number of comments and proposals at different depths of criticism, there were no alternative proposals for a different concept of the Programme. This gives rise to the claim that all participants in the analysis agreed with the concept of the Programme. This is also illustrated by the summary parts of the evaluation of the Programme, which are presented on the screen in the right-hand side of the table. The key words in these assessments and conclusions are “to approve”, “to support”, “to support in general”, “to support comments”, “to support comments”, “to support nine committees; to “to take the basis” - 1 committee; “to take a decision in accordance with the recommendations of the MPs” - 1 committee. It should be noted that they had submitted their proposals and comments, but had deviated from the decision of the 2 Committee. There were also no solutions in the materials from the Communist Party's MP and from the "Democratic Initiatives " MP. The People's Government Group was invited to endorse the Programme in the light of comments. In order to maintain objectivity in the evaluation of the work on the Programme, from its first submission in February to the joint meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers and People's Deputies, it should be noted that the change over that period amounted to about 25 per cent on the comments and proposals received. For example, the whole section “Government priorities” was deleted. What can be said about the positive side of the Programme. First. The programme takes into account the experience of previous Governments, is moderate in its stated objectives and steps towards its realization, and is in this context consistent with the reasonable principle of “Do not harm”. Regrettably, the frequent change of government does not allow us to raise the level of programming of the Government at the current level. The programme is adequate under existing political, economic and other conditions, including institutional and human resources. The programme, in a sense, is the product of the formula “Policy is the art of possible” and in a different sense, the programme cannot be any different than it is now. The programme quantitatively presents the expected results of its implementation on a number of microeconomic indicators. The programme's set of objectives, and over three hundred of them, are close to an exhaustive set, allowing for productive work in all areas of life and industry. In further developing the plan programme, which will naturally be subject to the core programme. The programme is open to possible future changes in the legislative field and in the public administration system. Perhaps there are some shortcomings in this regard that determine the high level of synthesis. The programme is short and concise. While not yet bold, it can be considered positive to restore the logic of programme and budget interaction, which gives the programme the authority over the budget as a tool for its implementation. In general, the programme is in line with the current strategic guidelines for the organization of the economic and social spheres of the State, including the tasks of approving the intensification model of the national economy. What should be said about shortcomings? Clearly, the main weakness and the main critical factor in the programme is the very existence of the draft programme. Indeed, when there is no systematic set of policy documents, particularly the core areas of economic and social development, all criticism will focus on the only document that we are considering with you today. However, it must be understood that the programme under consideration cannot provide all the answers to all the questions. Of particular concern is the weakness of the Government's policy actions aimed at approving the innovative model. The model is presented, not as a strategy in the methodological framework of the programme, but as an area of activity. At the very high level of consolidation in the programme, approaches to resource allocation were completely under-represented, and that was very important for the implementation of the programme. These are labour, financial, technological, raw materials and information resources. This, of course, weakens the value of the document. The characteristics of our political, economic and economic model of our global processes in the world are not very clear. The programme does not take into account the provisions of the poverty-relief strategy, the activities that guarantee the minimization of the shortcomings of Ukraine's accession to the WTO, the processes for the establishment and subsequent operation of a large-scale project such as the gas consortium, the development of highly technological and promising sectors of the economy, such as aviation, shipbuilding and automotive. There is a difference in the styles of who read carefully, I'm sure everyone reads the program carefully, in the style of presentation within even one section. Two crucial circumstances should be noted in the conclusion. First. The main issue, expressed in a variety of ways, but in each proposal of committees, factions, people's deputies, is how and to what extent these comments and proposals will be taken into account, whether they will be taken into account today in the programme or in the next document. There is a concrete answer to this question. The Ukrainian Law on State Forecasting and the Development of a Programme for Economic and Social Development of Ukraine provides for the development of a State programme for economic and social development for a short period of one year. In addition, as defined in article 8 of the Act, this State programme specifies measures, and it is here that we need to be more specific about the number of comments and proposals. The measures are provided for in the Cabinet of Ministers'programme of activities. Thus, our Government has a clear way of responding to the entire set of comments and proposals, at least to most of those comments and proposals. The path is to develop a State programme for economic and social development for the short term. It is very important to note, however, that the State economic and social development programme to be presented by the Government will be developed in conjunction with the State budget project next year. And we will be working on the budget resolution in a short time, and these processes will go hand in hand. In addition to this, the specific response of the Kabmin to comments and proposals should be efforts to develop quality sectoral regional programmes and plans that would be subject to the main objective. the main programme that we are considering today. In preparing for the review of the programme, we agreed with the Government. Second, in response to comments and suggestions, the Cabinet of Ministers has already today proposed a legislative plan for the submission of a bill to the Supreme Council to ensure the implementation of the Government's programme of work. Finally, I would like to support the Committee's decision to endorse the Government's programme of work. In favour of the decision, 12 voted in favour and seven abstained. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u50	Yes, thank you, Vladimir Anatolyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion, the factions, and then to the committees. As we agreed, we'll take an hour and a half. I invite you to the speech of Mr. Alexander Alexandrovich, and ask the faction leaders to submit their applications, who failed to do so, for the factions. Next is Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u51	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, reverend Victor Fedorovich! Our faction has already seen several governments without voting for their programs, because in practice and in the content of the programs themselves, our positions are not reflected as we consider necessary. There are such comments about the text of your program. For example, we do not accept any desire to speed up the recognition of the land by goods; we have talked to your representatives about this, but the moratorium today is being announced for sale. Although in practice, some of the dignitaries, including government officials, are trying to do so. It does not refer to certain constitutional norms relating to the social sphere and especially to free medicine, and you are well aware of what this has become today in Ukraine. The same is true of education and other social needs. There is no provision for the imposition of such sanctions on non-payments of residential services, which would still be in line with their family wealth, etc. There's a lot of other things that we can talk about, we've discussed in detail this document on the faction, but now I'd like to talk about something else. In your report, you started with references to the President's letter "European Choice." I understand perfectly that if you were to write the program in two or three days, you would have to turn to the last message now. And it might be a good thing it wasn't, because there's nothing to refer to. But in this case again, it doesn't matter, because even with the good wishes that you have here, there is doubt that you will be able to do all of this, what you predict, because the government is not the higher executives, as provided for in the Constitution, it is not in the proper status. And today, on that air, on the other hand, given that we're both watched by TV and heard by radio audiences, I want to offer you this kind of compromise. You know that the government and the system of government in Ukraine will not function effectively if the government is not strong unless it is able to intervene in various economic, social, spiritual, and so on, as provided for by the constitutional status of the government. This will not be possible until the system of power is changed. Yesterday the President, speaking here, devoted part of his report to political reform. We will not now talk about what he means, for we have already reached conclusions in the parliamentary hearing on this point. He means otherwise: There is no transfer of authority there, no reinforcement of the government and the Supreme Council. It's all fog, if you say so yourself. But there are a few specific things that we can solve together, I mean the government, the factions that the government supports, the MPs that advocate a change of power. The first step on this path is the elections on a proportional basis that will lay the foundation for the interaction of the government and the Supreme Council and their shared responsibility. Let's make this happen: you guarantee that MPs who support the Law on elections on a proportional basis, vote on it in the first reading, vote on it in the second reading, vote on it when it comes to overcoming the President's veto, support proposals for a change in the government's system of government, and the Prime Minister will be chancellor as it should be in the sovereign Ukrainian state. And we will then, without looking at the meaning, because we understand that this is a political document, and today we must take a political step, we will support your program so that no one will draw you around the field and allow you to work. I think our position is very open. We speak this out in front of the whole society. Take such a step to meet, and you will have the opportunity to realize what you are suggesting, with more quality and more reliability than you are doing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u52	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk of the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, has the word to prepare Black from the faction "Our Ukraine". [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u53	Dear National Deputies! We're also honest and we start with what we say: We will support the government's agenda. And we'll support why? First. The program or project of the Program, which is presented today, is not the worst of those programs and programs that we've approved and approved. He's better. We need to be honest about the following. So far, as far as we've been listening to software projects here, we haven't defined the criteria for what the government program should be. And since this is a constitutional document, I think at least today's majority, along with today's government, could determine what should be on the agenda for future governments and programs. So that there's not something that some people want to be there from the silage to the space, and others want priorities and goals to be set there for the next 100 years. This can not be the case, especially today's Program is calculated politically and legally by 2004. In today’s discussion, at least the MP’s faction does not aim to mechanically complement the list of comments already made, leaving behind a number of fundamental problems. The first principle of the problem is that the Program clearly identifies the government's willingness to cooperate with the Supreme Council. And we see how today's government is practically working with the Supreme Council in both the sessional hall and the factions. It is equally important that social issues are at the forefront of the programme, and it is deprived of elements of radical liberalism that have caused so much damage to Ukraine. We would like to stress separately that the social orientation of the Programme would be more obvious if the government had demonstrated the potential of resource provision for the most important social tasks. And it's not just about budget, it's about using alternative possibilities. I would like to point out that it would be good for today’s government to start implementing the programs and laws that are being adopted or to explain why, for which objective and subjective reasons this is not being done. I want to say the most important argument the faction believes is that the government needs to be supported. It's the first quarter. And the results of the first quarter of this year show that government tasks are being carried out, budget commitments are being carried out. This is the most important argument for us that the Program is being implemented. So it's real, so the government is working in this program, and we're going to vote in favour of this program, and we want the government to want it to work in that mode next quarter, and the whole year, and the next year, we want it to work in that mode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u54	Thank you, Leonid Makarovich. The word from the faction "Our Ukraine" comes from Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. The next will be Valery Pavlovich Desert Tenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u55	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Victor Fedorovich! Dear National Deputies! It is good that the government has submitted the Program, which shows that the government wants to make a commitment to public support in the Supreme Council and to work. Of course, the government gives us a program for a fairly short period of one and a half years, and it can't be a strategic program. In this regard, I would like to pay attention to this very moment, and not only to the government’s faults, but also to Ukraine’s strategic future programs have been lacking throughout all its years of independence. If you take post-war Germany, Ludwig Earhardt is 10 years old, the Czech Republic is Vaclav Klaus - 5 years old, I don't say Dan Xiao Ping, China - 50 years old. So it turns out that we haven't had any strategic forward-looking program so far, like lack of strategy, lack of a forward-looking development line is the main disadvantage of all of our programs, including the programs that the government is offering us. In fact, it is a declaration of purposes and in many ways good intentions. There, of course, are no mechanisms, it's small enough, but there's a government position and that's good. Now it's about the essence of the question. About priorities. Positively, the government is trying to put priorities ahead of itself, the Prime Minister said from this rostrum that he is looking for them and is always looking for priorities. In our view, priorities should be that way. The first is life-support systems: energy, housing, health care, all that's involved in life-support. And that's what the government has to focus on to make these systems work, to make life support systems work. The second priority is safety. Security in a broad sense: energy, food, economic, environmental, military, international, security from crime. If the government provides security, such a government has the right to exist. In general, authorities exist to ensure the safety of citizens. The third priority. Growing population well - being and solving social problems. There's something in the program that's being suggested on this issue, and I think that's something that we can support, even though it's not all that much. And the fourth priority. Upgrading of manufacturing and non-production funds. We have entered the lane of accidents and disasters, a high degree of weariness. And if we don't pursue this policy of renewal, we don't have a chance. Power stations, power lines, pipelines, railways, ships, airplanes, manufacturing equipment, diagnostic and medical equipment. The security problem, the update problem -- this has to be in the government's perspective. And these priorities are the goal. What means of reaching the goal? The government is also focusing on this, I might have changed it a little bit. The main means of achieving the goal is to move to an innovation and investment model. It's about an innovative model. And yet I think we need to ask about the innovation and investment model. And we need to create conditions for economic growth. We need now to make a major economic policy manoeuvre, move from restrictive, restrictive policies to policies that stimulate production and demand through tax liberalisation, credit policies and wage policies, and stimulate demand, not just production, because we have very low pay-per-view demand. And now we need to focus on developing and activating the internal market. And the last. Two observations. First remark. There is nothing in the program about how the government will solve the debt problem. And this is an extremely important problem, external debt, internal debt, and especially the receivable that holds us by our throats right now, large scales, it's a stalemate on the back of the economy. How will the government decide? And the second. There is no reference to institutional reform. There is no law on the Cabinet of Ministers, there is no law on the administration of a piece of state property. What are the government’s intentions in this regard? And the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u56	No, that's the last one.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u57	And the last. I think we can support the government then. When the government supports us, when it supports our proposals, when it supports political reform, when it supports the law on proportional elections, then, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u58	Vladimir Kirilovich, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u59	We'll be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u60	Valerius Pavlovich Pavlovytenko from the faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine. Prepare the Landik People's Deputies from the "Regions of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u61	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the distinguished Victor Fedorovich, the distinguished national MPs, the honourable members of the government, I said in my own time at this rostrum that in all my speeches and in all my votes for the support of the government, I would fully support it, because I know how to work in the government. And I want to say right now that the faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine has made a political decision to support the government's programme of action unanimously. And now, essentially. Because there are problems that need to be solved. I think they're counting on the right proposals. If you look at the Program of Action of the Cabinet of Ministers, introduced to the Supreme Council in terms of reprocessing and realism, you can say with full responsibility that it is a manifesto of intent rather than a comprehensive strategy of government activity, because it is prepared for a very short period of time, until the day of the inauguration of the President of Ukraine. The program does not take into account budgetary constraints, does not highlight policy priorities, does not have a whole system of planning, coordination, monitoring, evaluation and reporting on government decisions, does not have a responsibilities between ministries, between central and local authorities. In addition, most of the objectives of the government programme are at risk because it is unclear which means that resources and mechanisms will achieve them. There are also no numbers of issues that are important for Ukraine's economic development and especially structural changes in the economy. I'll give you a little example here. If you take a 100 percent industrial structure in Ukraine and in the world, it looks something like this: the world's gross domestic product is easy industry at 7.8 percent, in a developed country of 6.5, in Ukraine only 1.6 percent; Chemical industry - in the world of 11.2 in the world as a whole, in developed countries of 11.6, in Ukraine only 5.9; Metallurgical industry -- 6.9 percent in the world as a whole, 6.9 percent in developed countries and 30 percent in the structure of our economy in Ukraine; machine building - in the world and in developed countries - 34 percent, in Ukraine only 13.1 percent. It shows that we need to make structural changes in the economy more than ever after the production of finished products that could be made in the future. The next question, I want to say right now, is that I have my vision of making these kind of software documents. I will return to the President's letter last year, where he said that Ukraine should be integrated into the European Union by 2011. The President's mandate was to be responsible, it was the First Deputy Prime Minister to develop our State's Strategic Development Programme, that is, for almost 11 years. Unfortunately, there is no such program, and it is still missing. So I propose the next approach, Victor Fedorovich, and you are now appointed President of Ukraine again today, the director of the development of long-term programming documents in the coming period. I believe that you and I should approve the Strategic Programme, at least 20-30 years old, the political, social and economic development of our country. [[National MPs]] It is followed by a programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers, and national and national programmes of concepts are being prepared. Galluses and regional programs and targeted complex programs. And they have organizational legal arrangements for the implementation of these software documents. Next question. A few of the most important of these, I would like to focus specifically on these issues. This is primarily the energy security of our nation. I can tell you right now that this is where the purpose and purpose of these programs are set, and first of all, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm sorry, but I'm going to be speaking from factions and from the committee, I have an extra five minutes. I'm lucky. We'll make it. First of all, the Energy Program, the National Energy Program, takes priority in energy conservation. Regrettably, apart from the fact that the struggle was to appoint a committee head, the committee is not actually working today. And secondly, I'd like to put this, this is the development of the fuel-energy complex. First. It's a coal industry. I think we have 100-120, 100 million tons of coal in the next year, about 120 in the next year. We're going to be able to move away from energy dependence, relative to Russia and Turkmenistan, because today we're taking our money, made by our people and our businesses, to other countries of the world, and we're not going to develop our own production. In the future, I would like to say, in the development of the oil and gas industry, I think that on the basis of the Kremenchuck factory and the Skrnafts, you could create an integrated company of the Lukoil-TNC type that works in Ukraine and develop, produce, process and implement oil products. I would like to see a specific definition of nuclear energy, thermal energy, hydropower, and so on. Next line of work. In second place, I'd like to ask agro-industry. And I want to say first of all, it's a resource upgrade today and it's a labor force in the country. The next question is what Victor Fedorovich Janukovic said in his statement is that the special development of machine building, aircraft construction, automobile building, which we have virtually abandoned today, and moving forward. I'd also like to go to the government that we've submitted a program from the committee, Victor Fedorovich, that's the committee's proposal for inclusion in the program, and including one of the directions is to reform housing and utilities. Regrettably, the Supreme Council's decision, which had given the proper mandate and was preparing it for the government's proposals, by March 1st, to make proposals for the State Housing and Utilities Development Programme, was not implemented, and today is not a very good situation. And one last question. I'd like to fill in all of our people for the next talk that we've been doing in the press lately, and it's kind of on the Program, and we're in Ukraine making the demographic situation worse. It is estimated that in 2004 we will have 44.5 million people in Ukraine, and over 60 years of age will live 27 percent, this burden on workers. And in 2050, according to the same experts, about 30 million people will live in Ukraine. Therefore, more than ever before, the government would like to pay attention to the improvement of the demographic situation and the provision of special assistance for the housing and employment of young families. That's question number one for today. I, Victor Fedorovich, would like to ask you once again that we will support your program, vote for it, and hope that the time will come when it will, indeed, come true. There is a chance for the government to work peacefully for a year. But it's not going to be peace, it's just working to get deeper into the processes that are going on in our nation's economy today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u62	I'm inviting Valentin Landik from the faction of Ukraine. Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Dear Victor Fedorovich! Respectable members of the Government! The Cabinet of Ministers presented to the Government of Ukraine today is viewed in various ways, but the faction of the “Region of Ukraine” supports it and that is why. The Red Line Programme is based on Adam Smith's main postulate from the genius of Nature Research on the Causes of Peoples' Riches, which reads: “The wealth of the nation is understood by the wealth of the people.” That is, what we were taught: a strong nation, and then a strong nation, it does not exist. The Red Line program includes strong people, a strong family, and a strong state. So again, I repeat, the faction of the “Regions of Ukraine”, we are part of the faction of mainly industrialists, entrepreneurs, we have developed proposals specifically for the Cabinet of Ministers, serious proposals, and they are largely taken into account and taken into account from a truly positive perspective. And we're really happy. We believe that we have indeed contributed a lion's share to the establishment of this Programme. And we are pleased that the Government has listened to us, and that our proposals have been taken into account. Most importantly, there is no dirt on previous Governments in the Cabinet of Ministers programme. I also had to prepare such programs in Desert Lake in 1993-1994, and we have always started to pour more dirt on the previous government and then tell you how good you are. The point is that there is no such thing. What is done and what is really happening is accepted. Second. The Government clearly understands that economic recovery is hampered by insufficient tax policies and that wages have not been an enabling factor in the development of production, the insufficient role of small and medium-sized enterprises, and the underdevelopment of the financial and banking system. There is no energy policy, very low purchasing capacity of the population, low efficiency of privatization. Therefore, the new Government has taken on these issues and would certainly like to have more time here, given this serious document, to make all its proposals, all its wishes and what has been done in the Programme. But I still want to stop here, for example, on the Small and Medium Business Programme, what we talked about saying that the red thread would support the population, so it would be work. Why would there be work? All over the world, in all countries, if there are large businesses around it, there are 100-150 firms and they work, people have jobs, people have wages, people raise their living standards. How else? There's no one else. I'm bringing you examples, for example, even in our group, if there are foreigners coming to us at some point and they're watching us have 15,000 people working in a group and when we're doing everything, it's far wrong for them to wonder how this can be done, how it can be understood, and how it's fashionable to feel it. This is where the Programme is really about creating, maintaining small and medium-sized businesses, and that is a good thing. A few words about tax policy change. In fact, you understand that the issues raised are falling in the payment of profit tax, lowering the value added tax, lowering the income tax and being adopted, it is here that we are changing the health and education policy for the first time, we are going to introduce really insurance medicine, and we feel that this will be done. So again, I repeat, we will have the opportunity to raise wages because we are cleaning, we are cleaning and self-sustaining, we are cleaning payments ourselves, because today we are paying one tax bracelet for one bracelet of wages, and that is certainly not appropriate. Much can be said today, but of course I would like to see even more clearly the energy policy in the Programme. We talk a lot about the coal industry, we talk a lot about us, about energy, and we ask for money all the time in the budget, and we need to unite, we need to take electricity for the main energy, and here, when nuclear energy, I say coal, and when electricity comes together and out, of course industry will grow. So we really, I repeat, we support our joint programme. And I want to end with the words of Ludwig Erhard, who likes to repeat our Viktor Fedorovich, Prime Minister: "No economic situation can be so hopeless that the willful will and honest work of all the people will not be able to deal with it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u64	Pavlovski Mikhailo Antonovich from the Julia Timoshenko bloc faction, I think he will now continue this topic. Get ready for Calinchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u65	Pavlovski, the faction of the block of Julia Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland, Hmeljničina. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, Victor Fedorovich, distinguished national MPs, journalists, distinguished voters. I want to give a scientific perspective on how this program can produce a positive outcome, and how this program can make our state even worse, not make it any better. Because today in Ukraine, really, the tragedy is 82 percent of the population outside of poverty. At the same rate of unemployment, we are also leaders in Europe. Moreover, if, as thoughtlessly as it is today, conducts a policy of Mineconomy regarding WTO, we will get about four million more unemployed while solving social problems. So, Mr. Victor Fedorovich, I want to draw attention to the fact that the program is really declarative and that's why we need to have a government strategy to implement it in order to get a positive outcome. And that's why I'd like to see how we can find a positive way out of this, and we need to know the reason: why is everything so bad in our country? Because we have the highest priority, the most damaging policy of liberalization and market romanticism. Moving the state aside, turning it into a bribe system. So the main thing, and I was speaking in government, was saying that two more chapters should be added to this program: a separate chapter is innovation, and a separate chapter is the development of the financial and financial system, and there's not a word about it. And now I'd like to get your attention, Victor Fedorovich. We have a stake in the implementation of the program today at the Ministry of Economics. And that's basically wrong. It's the Ministry of Finance. It's the Ministry of Finance. It's the Ministry of Finance. It's the Ministry of Finance. In order to implement what you said even in the answers to the question, you need to have three main basic areas: the Ministry of Industrial Policy, the National Academy of Sciences, the Ministry of Education and Science -- that's the basic areas on which to rely, otherwise nothing will happen. They're capable of making it happen. What's more, when the program was being developed, it was written by officials, and it was supposed to be written by real scientists, because those scientists who are spinning, as Victor Fedorovich said, around the President's Office, are conformists, they serve power, not truth, not science. So we need to expand the circle of scientists, including those sitting in the Supreme Council and in opposition, all of us must stand up for our state together. I'd like to draw attention to such a simple thing, to two. How Can I Make Production Succeed? The first is to increase the purchasing power of the population, i.e. to raise wages. I'm drawing your attention, Victor Fedorovich, that language doesn't go up 10-20 percent, it's nothing against what it is! We have to raise our wages by 100 percent, 200 percent, and that's not a big deal, because today we have the highest level of exploitation of our people in the world! And you have to cut it down and divide it a little bit. This wealth, which in the state does not belong to twenty clan families, needs to be allocated to the entire population of Ukraine. And I'm very concerned that this is where the word and the work go. That's what you said today about how to act in the SATs. And it turns out the Ministry of Economics is acting the other way around. Thus, the changes to article 16 of the law on external economic activity were considered literally yesterday. What does the Mineconomy offer? It complicates, complicates exports, and facilitates imports. So where's the protection of your production? This is once. And the second. It takes a general rule -- all the agreements, the laws that are written in order to enter into the WTO, have to go into action not instantaneously, we haven't entered there yet, but three months after Ukraine's entry into the WTO. Then these laws come into force, and if you see, we didn't join the WTO, and the government has already signed out of the 19 sectoral agreements, where all of these bets are zero. The countries that have been there for 10 to 20 years in the WTO have not signed them, and we've gone ahead of everyone. Therefore, we need to review all the agreements immediately. National interests must come first. And in the end, among the priorities, the last thing I'm saying is that you missed, Victor Fedorovich: what you've said will not exist unless we have priority number one electronic branch. This is the sector that gives 70 percent to U.S. GDP. It's billions. So we need to be critical about this, taking into account what is happening today and acting for the only purpose. It's not for anyone's benefit, it's globalization, it's for national interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u66	Thank you. The word comes from the faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine, Vasil Kalinchuk. Prepare the Marines.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u67	Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished Victor Fedorovich, distinguished national deputies, members of the government, present! The Ukrainian Agrarian Party's faction, having considered at its meeting the draft programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers and discussed it yesterday at a meeting with the Prime Minister, notes that it covers the main directions and aims at further economic development of the country and improving the quality of life of the population. Over the past three months, the government has already demonstrated its ability to work for a positive outcome and has confirmed the clear definition and openness of its policies, which are geared towards radical action in all sectors of the economy. The government's intention to turn an agro-industry complex into a highly efficient, competitive sector of the economy, which will play a crucial role in ensuring the food security of the state, speaks of the priority of its actions in this direction. So we basically share the approaches of the government that are programmed and ready to cooperate in their implementation. First, the agrarian block of the new government took seriously the formation of mechanisms for regulating the agricultural market. But all of this work needs to be continued and deepened consistently, since it is not possible to allow a situation similar to last year’s when the price policy distortions caused the loss of two billion to seven billion dollars by peasants. What's more, this year's situation has been subject to weather and climate conditions. Thus, in fact, hundreds of thousands of peasants have been destroyed by the previous work, and the losses amount to about eight billion dollars. Immoderate efforts and substantial material resources need to be moved by the winter. Under these conditions, the need to organize mortgage purchases, at least two million tons of grains, is particularly acute. Market mechanisms need to regulate the price of milk and meat, without which animal production simply ceases to exist. At the same time, we believe that it would be necessary for the Programme to write more specifically the mechanisms for carrying out the tasks arising from the statement by the President of Ukraine and the report of the Prime Minister at the All-Ukrainian Council on the strategy for the development of the agricultural sector, the summary of parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the progress of reforms and measures to improve the situation in the country. Regulations of the President of Ukraine's annual letter to the Supreme Council on the internal and external status of the State. The deep conviction of the members of our faction of government today must be focused on solving the following problems. First. Saving the land and its fertility due to the targeted use of land - paying funds starting on January 1, 2004. It's different. Continue special taxation mode. Both fixed taxes and VAT by 2010 and increases in short- and long-term lending volumes, reimbursement of part of credit rates and the cost of complex agricultural techniques of domestic production at the expense of the State budget. Third. According to the state of affairs in the spring field this year, the mandatory insurance for basic agricultural crops is essential to pay 50 percent at the expense of the state. Four. It's the fourth, but it's not important. Special attention needs to be paid to active social policies in rural areas, to allocate at least 30 percent of state capital and road funds to the construction of sociocultural, gasification and water supplies and roads in rural areas, to the restoration of compensation to agricultural producers, and to the cost of construction of social infrastructure in rural areas. To do these and other tasks, we understand that the government needs to be confident that it can work today and tomorrow and the day after, and I might stress that if we approve the government's agenda. Our MP faction will vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u68	Thank you, too. Vladimir Yuriovich Pehota, of the European Election Group, has the floor to prepare Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u69	Honourable Head, distinguished members of the government, distinguished national MPs. At a meeting of the European Election Group, we supported the Cabinet of Ministers Program and will vote in favour. In our view, this program cannot be the object of political opposition to those who really want, not in words, but in the case of economic growth and the solution to the state’s painful social problems. We think there's a real chance today to break the economic situation for the better. I don't think there's going to be a lot of people in the room who are opposed to increasing the population's income by 25 percent over two years, against an annual increase in wages by 12 to 15 percent, and against a reduction in tax pressure, against other positive measures envisaged by the program to improve the quality of life of our people, and to adopt a socially innovative model of economics. You can discuss the individual settings of the program, demand that the indicators be better and weightier. But agree, honourable national MPs, you cannot demand everything at once. In real life, every percent of the growth of the dot, hard work, creating conditions for the implementation of the program. It would not be desirable for the approval of the Government's Action Programme today to be turned into a process of compiling political accounts or winning the population's rating dividends. The people of Ukraine need, not beautiful words and appealing slogans, but concrete actions and changes for the better. I propose that we give the government the opportunity to prove that there is a positive shift in the economy and in the social sphere, to create conditions for the programme to be implemented in two years' time, so that we and the people of Ukraine will be informed about its implementation and, above all, the results of this exercise to be felt by all citizens of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u70	Thank you, too. Simonenko has Peter Mikolaiovich of the Communist faction. Prepare Dashutin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u71	Dear colleagues! When analyzing the Kabmin programme of activities, the faction of Communists came out first of the main question: "What will change in the lives of a particular person: unemployed, retired, Chernobyl, Afghans, young specialists and many other categories of citizens?" And the second question is, "How will this project contribute to the protection and development of the economic base of the state?" The main disadvantage, I think, of the project is its declarativeness and the lack of specific indicators that are undetermined in time and scope. Sadly, however, the preparation and consideration of the program indicates that it has been transformed into a political speculation mechanism today. And last night's statement by President Kuchma confirmed our party's conclusion that the leadership of the state, in a mild sense, lives in a virtual world and does not take into account the findings of scientists and experts on economic crisis assessments. Program developers don't take into account that the state of the core funds are catastrophic, 70-80 percent of them are tolerable. According to our estimates, the government has now lost its leadership in the state and is not in charge of these processes, but is using its authority to meet other problems. There are no shifts in the introduction of high technologies, no programs, and no understanding of change strategies, the structure of the economy -- we need to do this today. I'm not talking about the lack of funds in construction work, the unprecedented majority of our population, the mass flow across the borders of skilled labor and scientists, programmers and other professionals. A high unemployment rate and an indicator such as the low level of economic monetaryization, which today is 16.5 percent, let alone economic Tinning and huge tax benefits to individual commercial structures. Clearly, all of this does not provide a basis for optimistic economic forecasts, and even more so for solving the problems of a person’s life. Moreover, in consultation with scientists and really Ukrainian experts today, the real threat of a new economic collapse in Ukraine is more real than ever. About the content of the program. The program has many slogans and promises to improve the quality of life of the population, expand, reduce, improve, and much more. And in fact, if you look at all of these 12 years of independence in detail, it's this program that will ultimately destroy the state's social protection system. And it will remove the benefits and guarantees of the most socially vulnerable categories of citizens established by law. The planned restoration of the legal mechanisms for the use of sanctions against non-payments I'm paying attention to, reverend radio listeners, will end with the practice of evicting you from your apartments, because today the people of Ukraine owe about 7 billion dollars. In fact, the implementation of the Program will mean the further destruction of the system of free medicine, education, and other social benefits of citizens. The government declares that privatization remains an important instrument of state policy. How can we even talk about this when privatization is banditry in the state, it's the strongest corruption in the state, the strongest organized crime the world knows nothing about. But they're going to go from the mall to the strategic sector, and they've already introduced projects to privatize railways, power companies, telecommunications, defense complex companies. For Ukrainian citizens, these are the new thousands and millions of unemployed and the collapse of the social infrastructure of cities and villages, because they are, these enterprises, the basis for the development of cities. It is difficult to understand, for a number of points, what the government is going to do to radically improve its position in the leading sectors of the fuel and energy complex. The first step is to ensure compliance with Ukraine’s obligations to access the pipelines in an equal manner. But is that the main question? The shafts are closed for no reason, and today they are not regulated by the moments that relate to the provision of a fuel-energy complex and the direction to its development, not to destruction. The agro-industry complex does not provide for the provision of new equipment, parity of prices for agricultural products, and according to industrial production. The chapter "Strengthening the Defence of the State" is shown here to comment on nothing. As reform takes place, it's not clear whether the new technology is going to go into arms -- there's no answer to how the social problems of the military will be solved -- we're seeing with you: military towns are closing down, women are out of work, children are left without care, and this is what's called a state policy. It is further pointed out that the government’s programme focuses on Ukraine’s accession to the WTO, the EU and NATO. I met with the leading managers of the economic institutions just before the program was considered and asked them: ‘ Did the government seek to develop scientific forecasts and analysis of the country’s entry into the WTO? No, it's not. Because this is unnecessary because the same Horoshkovsky goes abroad and gives up and sells national interests to Ukraine, including bilateral agreements. By the way, Victor Fedorovich, I very much ask you, please give the Supreme Council all the protocols that Horoshkovsky is negotiating and that he is signing there abroad to answer what the government official is doing. The Communist faction offered to take the following steps when considering the program in the government. First. To identify the three-to-four most painful problems we have in the state that would solve people's problems, determine from the source of funding, and clearly propose deadlines for these concrete measures. Only then will we restore the people’s trust in power, only then will the people feel real changes in real life. The faction will continue to work transparently to understand not only our program, but also concrete measures for real changes in the economy and in the lives of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u72	Grigory Dashutin from the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and Labour Ukraine, please. Prepare Gavrish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u73	Dear Chief, Honourable Prime Minister, honourable deputies. Today's really going to be a lively discussion of the project program and I'd like to stop at two aspects: one aspect is that of the program, both for the project and for the responsibility that lies directly on both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council. It was indeed a pleasure to discuss the program with great effort, both during the time period and during the Cabinet of Ministers meeting. And I'm glad that when we were sitting in the Cabinet of Ministers, our faction also took part, and we were discussing a number of issues and especially the issues that the faction is looking after today, it's primarily about energy conservation. And what's happening in the project today is paragraphs like "Energy," where today's winter has shown that the stress that has taken place on the energy system has been sustained, but we still have to conclude that the moment of energy conservation, which today is the left-hand side of the budget, is actually going to produce results. And what we have in our column today for coal is that we take into account the technologies for extinguishing fires with inert gases. Why? Because about 800 miners have been killed in 1991 to this day. What we have today is progressive technologies for oil and gas extraction, and this is also about energy conservation. The nice part is that today at the thermal power plant, it's the replacement of boiler stations at stations more with a high-performance coefficient. So these are nice acquisitions that are on the program today. One of the things today is in the state -- it's the absence, in large account, of the number of jobs that are in the state today. We have about 20 million people working in the economy today. Population, but the real 12 million. The people that are provided with jobs are, in the near future, a big problem with job security. And that the question of energy conservation, the question of jobs, really needs funding, and the cost of the budget. And it seems to me that the work that will be done when the budget for 2004 is adopted is going to be able to predict, first of all, I'm saying once again, the article, it's energy saving, which is cost-effective in the budget. And the second point is to provide jobs. Why? Because those numbers are what they call today. About 3 million. Ukrainian citizens are working abroad, and it is still necessary to get them back to work, not just through measures, but through some budget money. We are pleased to see that today's adoption of the draft program puts the task ahead of the Supreme Council. Why? Because if you're asking the question, and the program is accepted, and it's a performed function, I think that in our practice, it's not going to be so responsible why? Because there are a number of bills that we should still adopt in the Supreme Council here in the hall that would ensure that this program is implemented. And, Victor Fedorovich, I would like to say that those bills that were already foreshadowed today, this is a matter of the Budget Code, the Tax Code, this is a law on the tax on natural persons, the corporate income tax -- it's already done a number of laws. But if these bills were to be passed in the near future, which really did provide a percentage of the measures that the program provides for. So in general, I think that the adoption of the 2004 budget should still be in the analysis of the entire government programme. So in the end, I would like to say that our faction as a whole tends positively to support this program. And I, Victor Fedorovich, hope that our meeting tomorrow will confirm these projects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u74	The word is given to Stephen Bogdanovich Gavrish. Next up is Hubsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u75	Dear Chief, Honourable Mr. Prime Minister, Your Honorable Colleagues! The government's programme of action is not only a program of sovereignty in accordance with the Constitution, which allows the government to have Parliament's preference to work at a calm pace over the course of a year, it is also a project of stability for the development of the Ukrainian state. Clearly, the key problem in this regard is not only the macroeconomic, macro-financial formulas that are written in this program, but, in fact, our support to you, the people who have a mandate of trust from the Ukrainian voters. Our support for this program will mean that we will share a consolidated position with the government, which at this time is a stable executing institution that ensures balanced Ukrainian development. Undoubtedly, the top priority should be that in the first quarter of 2003, the government proved its ability to meet the Prime Minister himself, not only to fulfil its obligations under the State Budget, but to have a dialogue with us, with the Ukrainian Parliament, and the frequency of the Prime Minister's meeting with us, tells us that the government is a real partner for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The government's programme is much better compared to the first ones, especially the positions that relate to the social practices of the government to improve quality of life. At the same time, it should be noted that much of the proposals made, including those made by members of the Democratic Initiative Group, they have made these proposals in a volume of about 32 pages that have not been studied to the end and perhaps not all are taken into account. I think these proposals, if they don't get into the program, but obviously they can't get in, they're going to be taken into account by the government in specific actions, because they're working with experts, we've been trying to help the government find the best solutions to its programming commitments. There are a number of comments to this program. The first is that implementation of the Poverty Control Programme has not been sufficiently reflected in this Program. It's not exactly the kind of algorithm that has been created to move to a new quality of life itself and understand why the most important, and the sharpest discussion at this time, is the discussion around solving the problem of minimum wage levels, which is approved by Parliament in accordance with the law. Since the government has not offered a solution to the situation at this time, the transition to a minimum wage of 237 dollars is still insufficient, and this leads to serious reflection, realizing that this is the most difficult problem, first of all the national deputies representing the interests of the Ukrainian electorate. The second problem is that the government only deals fragmentedly with the issue of tax reform and does not assume specific obligations to carry it out during this period of time initiated by the Programme. Clearly, tax reform is a key issue of national development and is crucial for finding the most optimal economic model. With regard to the economic model itself, there is no doubt that the intervention of the government planned by this programme in liberal market relations is complex enough and to some extent contrary to the regulatory function of the state, which has actually enabled today more than two thirds to master the economic sector in private interests. Few talk about serious changes in government credit policy, creating a new loan program that would significantly reduce the pressure on those who are trying to create their own business today. And of course, not a word is mentioned about the creation of the Ukrainian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which would, of course, allow for a change of credit policy in Ukraine. There are problems that seem to be related to positive moments. Let's say it's a very good chapter on ecology, but there's nothing to say about the Kyoto Protocol, which could be ratified by Russia next year, and Ukraine can get from a billion to three billion dollars for implementing its own budget quotas. At the same time, I think that these and other suggestions made by the national deputies in this session hall will be carefully studied by the government and taken into account in additional measures. The Democratic Initiatives MPs have repeatedly discussed whether this Programme has taken a previous decision to support it as an act of trust of a member of the parliamentary majority government, which is a coalition in our documents signed under it. I think tomorrow's 8:30 meeting with the Prime Minister will strengthen our desire to support the government's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u76	From the members of the People's Rule Group, Bogdan Hubsky has the word to prepare for the Overself.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u77	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished Viktor Fedorovich, respected colleagues. Our MPs have carefully studied both previous and advanced versions of the Program. First of all, I would like to point out what is proposed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The program was scaled down, becoming more specific and fuller in practical terms. At the same time, we have to say that the Program does not fully reflect social priorities. And our priority is, we know, one is to increase the material well-being of people, primarily doctors, educators, cultural workers. For example. In my constituency in the village of Bogodówkowka, Valerius Anatolyyovich Grošev, who serves almost 6,000 villagers from five villages, receives 240 dollars, including all the extra fees. And the leading cardio surgeon in the district hospital gets 270 bucks a month. Even worse is the situation of educators, cultural workers, especially rural workers. Then the legal question arises: "When will the wages of the workers of these spheres, cultural workers, scientists be increased? When the system of the hourly minimum wage is in place.? When and how will the Minimum Wages Act be implemented? When will the temporary material assistance for the birth of a child be increased?" The program does not provide a clear answer to these questions. Although I would like to point out that the answers to these questions must be shared: the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'm absolutely sure that with constructive cooperation, and today it is, we won't wait long enough for not only 500 dollars to be the minimum wage, but also more. Here's to science. The programme provides for a complete reorientation of funding of the science and technology sector to the principles of public procurement and competitiveness; real economic returns from science-encompassed, including the National Academy of Sciences, the costs; and the development of scientific research plans according to the policy and purpose principle. There's a legitimate question: "What about fundamental science, by all means?" In this case, Ukraine will soon lose its leading scientists, lose its intellectual potential for fundamental and theoretical science. And world science is moving forward. And yesterday, for example, it was officially declared that it was deciphered by a human race. It is therefore necessary not only to determine the priority of fundamental research but also to foresee a concrete annual increase in the amount of budget spending to finance it. It's about privatization. We believe that the announcement of a reduction of one-third and more shares in state-owned companies is seemingly unfounded. First, we need to monitor the effectiveness of their operation to make sure that the change of owner will give additional revenue both to the budget and will give new impetus to the efficiency of the enterprise. We know that when commercial structures took over factories, factories in debt, let's say 10 to 20 million dollars promised that debt would be reduced and given back to the state after the debt management in hundreds of millions, and even billions of dollars. That's not fair, and that's not a national approach. Therefore, in our view, the privatization of economically attractive and strategically important enterprises for the economy of Ukraine should be done exclusively under separate laws. And these laws must also provide for material responsibility for failure to implement investment plans. Next. There is a need to ensure the interest of local self - government authorities in the implementation of the government program. And to do that, you have to do more work and develop and implement the right mechanism. Finally, I would like to stress that under the Law on State Forecasting and Development of Ukraine's Economic, Social Development Programmes, the government should develop an annual Economic and Social Development Programme, mutually agreed with the budget. And that's why, in many discussions with Victor Fedorovich, we have been asked to agree with him that specific proposals that detail and implement the Programme's position should be taken into account in the autumn of the development and implementation of the Economic and Social Development Programme, together with the 2004 budget. And that's why the People's Government MPs are absolutely positive about and approve of the Government's Programme of Action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u78	Thank you, Bogdan Vasilovich. Basil Nadrag of the National Choice MP group. Get ready for Zybenko. Is there a Peter Stepanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u79	Respectable colleagues. I would like to begin my statement on why the People's Choice Group has supported the Government's Programme. This was because we are deeply convinced that there cannot be a Government that does not know what it wants, how it will do so and that it will eventually come from its activities in that State. Therefore, our meetings were also attended by the Deputy Prime Minister and we have been quite patient about the Programme that has been proposed; we have met with our distinguished Prime Minister and therefore our position has already been expressed today and, I think, we will confirm it tomorrow. The next moment is what has already been said here today and what we insisted on when we discussed this at the meeting of our parliamentary group. First and foremost. We are deeply convinced that, without the establishment of a normal functioning mechanism for the implementation of this Programme, this can only be a wish. That is why we have insisted, proposed and ready to go further with the Government in the formulation of specific programmes on all fronts, and there are practically whole blocks of these things. and we believe that if the Government develops and, as has been said here, respected Victor Fedorovic, separate concrete action plans on this subject, and if they are agreed upon, and correspondingly worked together with the Supreme Council, both with the legislature and with the relevant committees, in particular, we hope that this will enable most of the positions to be carried out. The next two points at which we stopped in this discussion. We believe that the problem of supporting a local producer can be implemented, especially if we do the basic thing - we must go out this year anyway to adopt the Tax Code because everything else is a spell, there are calls, but unfortunately today the tax press has smothered the producer and if we do not remove this blow from the economy of the State, it is simply naiveness to expect that the economy will be revived and, accordingly, a resource will go anywhere: into the social sphere, into the public budget and beyond. There are several basic things in the economy that are quite close to our parliamentary group, in particular the problems of metallurgy and the coal industry. We are deeply convinced that not only should the State in general fulfil its responsibilities in the industry, but there is probably a role and a place for the Cabinet of Ministers to monitor and adjust the overall flow of financial flows in these sectors, as well as in all others. I'll give you examples of the coal miners. Often, the holding companies receive money, there is another way to solve wage problems, but unfortunately, milestones, miners, transporters, all those who serve themselves as industrial enterprises, holding companies are very often the most recent, and there is a problem of debt on wages. The problem of payment of current wages is much more serious than in the literal sense of holding and mine. The next ingredient. We are deeply convinced that the development of the basic industries will help us to solve the same problems in the depressed regions that we have discussed with you here today. To date, the closure of the mine often leads to the question that today the debate on the problem of special economic zones, priority development zones, must be taken into account as a city-based enterprise without any influence, recharge, support, social and residential complexes, housing and here. There are different views, so basic, I think, on this issue there must be one thing: all that enters these special economic zones in the form of equipment that is installed and is starting to work and must be legitimized. But if the goods remain, the commodities that are then resold cannot be referred to any special economic zone or its main basic tasks today. The next element is social problems. A few aspects. First. Of course, the problem of wage increases. It's been said a lot, I don't want to do it again. We share the position that wages should be worthy. However, on social benefits, we must ensure that social benefits are in line with the first minimum human needs, if we cannot make them adequate. And second moment. We must do and achieve that what is already being laid must be funded. In the 2003 budget, 200 million had been contributed. debt repayments for the last few years. Unfortunately, to date, however, there has not been a mechanism under which the State, in the face of Kabmin, the Treasury, will give this money to the individual. You can't do that, and you have to do that. Next moment. We talk a lot about our children, but we have to achieve, I have literally five seconds, we have to achieve, and the Cabinet of Ministers has to play the main violin here so that all problems related to childhood, including the recovery of children in 2003, must be fully funded in that part. in which the budget was budgeted, not as in previous years, by 60-70 per cent. And the last. Dear Victor Fedorovich, I ask you, we have discussed the subject in this way in our group. Regrettably, very often in the work of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, when it comes to formal, final decisions, we face that individual ministries and departments on specific matters still remain in different positions. This is confusing and hard to accept. So, please, if you're going to the hall. If your people are going to a meeting of the commission, round tables and beyond, the position of the Cabinet of Ministers, if we want to work effectively, must be final and unambiguous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u80	Thank you. Yes, Hara Vasil Georgievovich, please. Get ready, Niklaenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u81	Respectful colleagues, members of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, of course, have taken a rather critical look at the sections of the Kabmin draft programme on the social sphere. And that is true, because our committee is going through the pain and suffering of the disadvantaged citizens of Ukraine. During the discussion of the programme in the committee with Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Vladimirovic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Papiev Mikhail Nikolaevich, comments were made with members of our committee on some inadequacy, incomprehensibility of the social section, a lack of separate provisions on the proposed measures to address social problems. The strengths of the project, some novelist approach, were noted. Opinions were different, but we understand that it is not possible in a similar document to meet a variety of requests, tastes, interests, approaches, requirements and so forth. It is sufficient to recall the first presentation of the draft programme. The Cabinet of Ministers, which at times expressed diametrically opposite views. Some were convinced that the Kabmin programme should cover those industries, units and monetary areas, others, on the other hand, argued that the Kabmin should indicate 2-3 main activities, some said that the programme should be detailed, comprehensive, mastic, others were convinced that it should be placed on only 3-5 pages. Individual people's deputies, for example, have proposed, for example, that, as soon as possible, the amount of the unemployment benefit be fixed at the minimum of living, as required by the Constitution of Ukraine, others have logically asked, and what about the hundreds of thousands of workers who today receive a minimum wage approved by the Supreme Council, or a little more, which amounts to only 50 per cent of the subsistence minimum. There have been many such proposals, and today they have sounded in this room. We are all, and we are all, mocking the programme and praising it, and we realize that, with the seemingly simple design of the Government's programme, especially in the current circumstances, it is extremely difficult. We can also understand the Government, which has had a difficult legacy. In other words, the burden of problems is on a whole Belaza body, and the resources to solve them are the engine of the moped. And try to solve the problems we have today in the State. Nevertheless, it should be noted that the current Cabinet's approach to the programme was bold, effortless and uneven. For the first time, the Cabinet of Ministers was presented for wide discussion. They discussed who wanted to, how they wanted to, down and down. For the first time, an attempt has also been made to put human interests at the centre of government concerns. The central place, and we like it, our committee, both in the location and in volume and content, is occupied by social divisions. This distinguishes the draft programme from all previous ones. In our Committee's view, it is worth doing that the Januković Government has adopted a minimum wage of 185 griven as of 1 January 2003, even though the State budget already has a deficit of 165 griven. Little has been done by the Government of Januković, at the insistence of our committee, supported by the Supreme Council by its decision, made commitments that no previous Government has done, by the way, to align inter-mission salaries on the basis of a single tariff network in order to compare the wild distortions in the salaries of budget workers. Enhance their material security and reduce social tensions. For this purpose, you are well aware that no funds have been made available in the State budget. At the insistence of our committee, it was the Government of Januković that we had not been able to achieve this before, that we presented to the Supreme Council a vision of the steps taken to bring the minimum wage to a minimum of living, as required by the Law on State Social Guarantees. And there are many examples in the various activities of the already new Kabmin. The above gives us reason to hope that the Government of Yanuković is fulfilling its extremely important and human-important commitments. It is hoped that the objectives and objectives of the Cabinet of Ministers'Social Affairs programme will be a minimum guide. It cannot be noted that it is the Government of Yanukovic that has given due attention to the Programme for the Development of Regions and, above all, the depressive territories that we have discussed recently. It is also important that the Government's hands have finally reached the critical sector of population sustainability, the reform of housing and utilities throughout its complex with protracted problems. Nor could there be a significant improvement in the relationship between Kabmin and the Supreme Council, at the initiative of the Government at the outset. Measures that. The Cabmine has already had a positive effect in enhancing mutual understanding and interaction in the legislative and executive branches. There are still many positive examples in favour of the Janukovic Government. I'd like to conclude by stressing. The programme was not, however, capable of participating in the change of life of the country for the better, so vote for the programme and therefore for the first coalition Government of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u82	Mr. Stanislaw Nikolaynko, chairman of the Committee on Education and Science, will be the next to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, Victor Fedorovich, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Science and Education Committee carefully examined the Government’s Programme. An appropriate meeting was held with the participation of government officials. Some of our suggestions have also been found on the pages of this document. But we have a number of observations that I would like to share today with the MPs and government officials, and we are particularly concerned that, despite the presence of the section "Innovative Economic Development" in this Program, we do not find a real basis for implementing the law on priority directions for innovation. By the way, it was signed by the President only on January 16. We do not see how it will be fulfilled there, and this law is fundamental. It defines the direction 8 of our economy, including electronics, energy conservation, new materials, reprocessing the agro-industrial complex, and so on. Because I think that as long as we're not talking about innovation, but without concrete steps, nothing is going to happen, as they say in the East, "Halva, halva, and from these words, everything in the mouth is not going to get sweet." Let's look at statistics like this. According to the State Department, only 1 in 5 companies in the past year have made use of scientific and technological achievements, innovative approaches in their practice. This figure is objectively doubled, and it is three times smaller. As can be said today about the innovative development of the state in general, when the Innovation Act was stopped altogether for 2003 by the Budget Act. Concerns the National Academy of Sciences and the apparent disregard of government and, by the way, of their problems. 763 million that we've allocated to the development of all science is about as much as it gives us abroad grants to support our science. So they care more about us than we care about ourselves. This is 0.3 percent when the law defines 1.7 percent of GDP. Education. I want to say that the situation here is extremely disturbing. We suggest that we immediately deal with the financing of this area, that we immediately change the budget code. By the way, Russia has already gone this way. We must immediately allow the financing of education from different levels of budgets. Today, rural heads cannot spend 100 dollars to repair schools, for example. We need everything in the area. The wages, the technical resources, the computers, the textbooks are ours, the state's, and the maintenance of the material and technology is from the city's budgets. We just came from Poltava, and they say the same thing about out - of - school institutions. We are also concerned about the inaction of our government in implementing the Minimum Wages Act. Here I am today, Victor Fedorovich, I came to work, I have 300, about a telegram, how many letters from teachers. I know that Vladimir Mikhailovich gave me a telegram. People say, "Why does technology get 185, God forbid, 213?" People don't understand. It would be a good thing, Victor Fedorovich, if we were advised tomorrow by a decision before the adoption of the Programme that the 19th number had pointed out, about inter-tariff changes and about a change in the wages of all budgetary institutions. Next. I'd like to address the entire government, the Prime Minister and the MPs today. We have a major crisis in higher education. We've stopped funding higher education, we've closed our eyes, and we think we're going to be able to survive by taking the last shirt off our people today. 3/4 people live outside the poverty line, and we say, "Give me the tuition fee." Victor Fedorovich, I call the official figures. Last year, you were gone, but the government is a government, they planned $124,000 after the Cabinet's decision to recruit students on the government's orders, they got 64. Today, 680,000 graduates, and only 1 out of every 10 can come. I'm asking you who would be in this room: doctors, academics and so forth, if there was a program of government procurement, like, 10-20 years ago.? No one would have. We'd be fine. I mean. This forces the higher education government to do so today. We don't finance them, and they're starting to earn what the police do without funding, and they're going to have to live with the bandits, and they're going to live, they're going to live, they're going to live, they're going to live, they're going to live, they're going to live, they're going to live with their parents. They have abandoned science because they have nothing to live for. And the last. I'd like to draw attention to the situation in the trades sector. Victor Fedorovich, we're going to meet at the faction today. But I want to tell you, if we're organizing this chain in isolation, if we don't get it closer to Mineconomy, to Minprompolitics, and let's say that even in Minosveta, there's no separate organ -- nothing will happen in Ukraine with the preparation of young workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u84	Mikola Tomenko, Bondarenko will be next. Mikola Tomenko of the Committee on Freedom of Speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! I'm going to start by saying that, in my opinion, discussion and voting for the Government's Programme of Action had to take place much earlier. And I still don't understand the logic that came after that, and somewhere it was from the President's Administration that we should consider the Government's Programme of Action after the President's annual letter. So I listened to the President's annual letter yesterday, and I didn't understand how this message relates to the Activity Programme. And here we have seen a political game when the government becomes a hostage to certain political ambitions of the political forces. What was the purpose of waiting so long for the government to work for a time and then to consider this activity program? By the way, on behalf of yesterday's speech by the President, I'm trying to find out and prepare a special parliamentary inquiry, who gave instructions yesterday to violate the Ukrainian Act on Enlightenment of the Government's Authorities, who manages the information space and censors the statement by the President of Ukraine? Last night, for the first time in the last period, the President's Annual Televised Message, which is directly provided by the Ukrainian Law, was launched on the evening of the release of the Annual Message, and at the end of the year, you saw what our citizens saw: fragments, envelopes with journalists' comments. I wonder who took the responsibility of censoring the President's speech and who would be responsible for breaking the law. I have prepared an appropriate MP’s request, and on Friday I will ask you all to support me. So I think the discussion of the Activity Programme is usually political and we understand that very well. The question is whether the government will work for at least a year, whether it will be in one situation or another. I am a proponent of institutional approach to these issues, if it is declared that we have a parliamentary majority and a government created by a parliamentary majority, then there can be no language at all, and it was actually necessary for the next week to issue the Activity Programme, and vote, and confirm that the parliamentary majority has not refused and is working with the government. Then logic would also be clear in the context of constitutional reform. And now it looks a little bit like it's all for me, well, delicately. What's more, in recent times, it's almost as if someone in particular is saying that the President is going in the same direction, and the government is going in the other direction. The Prime Minister is going to Western Europe and says that we are inviting Germany to the consortium; Leonid Kuchma is going to the East and invites Turkmenistan to a consortium with us. What's the interesting position: are we going east or west, are we going with the Prime Minister or with the President? And if this is done specifically, this conflict is one situation; if that's another logic, then another situation. So it seems to me that here we should be, first of all, apolitical and not secondary is now the content that we can criticize, and the priority is institutional things. Regarding the information block, our committee discussed this issue and we are also concerned that this block could have been written 20 years ago and 10 years ago. The government is still proposing to us to create preconditions for the introduction of a public television system, even though we have voted on a parliamentary hearing order that needs to be created, and the government is still premeditating. Accordingly, the government is offering us freedom of speech and information, and you know, the Attorney General's Office has somehow begun to open criminal cases against journalists because it seems that journalists are critical of the President's duties. I'm going to quote you on how a journalist from "The Cherka Truth" is a newspaper from the Communist Party was summoned to the D.A.'s office for what? What does this journalist do to the president? It turns out in his article he wrote that after the Leonid Kuchma protest, "as a flea in the shower, it's going around the world." The D.A. said that this phrase basically interfered with the President’s official duties, called him to the prosecutor’s office, picked up all the newspapers, and so on. I want us to remind the Attorney General that there is a formula when the President is offended, he can appeal to the court to challenge and demand an apology or compensation. But to open criminal cases to the fact that the President's image is a gravest violation by the Attorney-General. Today I have also signed a parliamentary request and will ask you, if these criminal cases are not stopped, personally, as Head of the Parliamentary Committee, I will appeal to the Attorney General for a violation of article 171 of the Criminal Code, "Infringement of the legitimate activities of journalists." That's what I'm going to say at the end. We all understand very well what political things are about, political things in the context of presidential elections. So I think that every faction should be defined, and in this case, as the Head of the Committee, I think that the information part should not only be written, but the government should try daily to do so as not to be held hostage by those who practice censoring daily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u86	The word is Gregory Bondarenko, please. Get ready, Cloaky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u87	Dear National Deputies, the distinguished Cabinet of Ministers, the programs were announced in this room not once or twice, and the government's expected orientations were seen for the first time. The most important one to be expected is the increase in wages to 25 percent, and the government's insistence on reducing taxes, such as VAT rates to 15 percent, corporate income tax to 20-25 percent, and the most important intention is to cancel the tax benefits at last. Because of time constraints, I'm not going to count the positive programs, I'm just going to say they're important. And I want to focus on the flaws. In particular, the program proposed to the Supreme Council, like all previous ones, does not stop, unfortunately, many of the practical problems the state is experiencing. Let me give you a few examples. They refer to the small and medium - size business that everyone so wants to support. For the transportation difficulties that exist today, peasants are unable to market milk. There's no such thing as organized cooking. Thus, it is sold to parts or on the outskirts of the district centers. The result is clear. Production is being made at no cost, and its production is becoming inconvenient for a private producer, for a cooperative. They're starting to carve cows. At the same time, the citizen is underfunded, not always when he wants to buy milk. The price is 60 copies of the bracelet. That's because they're collecting it for 30 or 60 copies. Now let's say that this little business got out of the net of the renegade and came, let's say, to Kiev. All markets tell him there's no room. They were all bought in the morning by the same parts, only this time by the city. And the manufacturer is again forced to give the product away for nothing. And here are the high prices in the trading order and, of course, the sellers of the sea, and the price is fixed by one. This is a small business in peasants. Sadly, the program does not deal with such problems, although they are common in the countryside alone, and it does not require much money to solve them. A lot of evidence from Central Gastronomy, let's say, in Chrystec. Modern - day interiors are impressive, and even more so are commercial spikes. Here is the hot bread that the buyer used to buy, most of which is mentioned. On Saturday or Sunday, he may not be at all. And disgraceful lines. Ask why? Because the nearby grocery stores were all shut down. Destroying a competitive environment is a serious trade problem in our country today. It is not limited to mayors and mayors. The state's vertical is also supposed to work. A well-designed policy is needed. Perhaps it is advisable to expand the antimonopoly committee's functions, let it create a competitive environment, not just globally, but on large programs. In the troubles of the abuse that we were talking about, confused, understandable, and this damn dollar that so much talk about. Corruption takes us by the throat without a bribe to help you. And they don't take candy anymore, they say he attacked them with an allergy. You can't talk about this evil by the way, you need software and concrete actions. We need to clean up the government service from bribes in every way. The person who stained himself should be deprived of his right to be a civil servant. This is a requirement to enforce the legislation. Finally, I want to say that the program that we're looking at is not just a government program, it's also a program of the Supreme Council. She needs serious support from us by laws, by her personal participation, which was specifically discussed today by Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich. The European Choice Group and most of the budget committee support the Action Programme proposed by the government, but it needs to be, this programme, specifically, brought to life directly to every Ukrainian citizen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u88	Thank you. Andrew Kluev, prepare Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u89	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished Victor Fedorovich, respected colleagues! The Government's programme of action is a constructive proposal to Parliament to jointly implement State socio-economic policies. We must consider and discuss this document in terms of cooperation from the perspective of a consolidated responsibility to the citizens of Ukraine for their present, and the main future. The status of the programme is a logical continuation of the systemic changes initiated by previous Governments. It is important that the Cabinet of Ministers does not abandon the rational ideas of the predecessors and follow the golden rule of public policy, if we were not the authors of a good idea, that does not mean that we cannot support it. However, the results already carried out by the Government, together with the Supreme Council, show serious practical steps towards deepening reform. This is primarily legislative work in the field of taxation, external economic activities and the budgetary process. Together with the Cabinet of Ministers, we have moved from declaration to action. The Committee on the Fuel and Energy Package of Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, as a result of its consideration of the Programme, has made a number of substantial proposals and additions. Mainly, the development of an energy strategy by 2030, the improvement of the wholesale electricity market, the resolution of debt accumulation in the fuel and energy complex, the implementation of mechanisms for financial security of the environmental armor of electricity consumers, whose complete exclusion could lead to environmental and technological consequences. As a result of the constructive discussion of our proposal, the Government has accepted almost all of them. In addition, we have already embarked on this programme with the Government by adopting Bill No. 3015 on additions and amendments to the Electricity Act. This contributed to the identification of an integrated approach to the reform of the fuel and energy complex in the programme. Its follow-up will ensure the investment attractiveness of this strategic sector of the economy, improve the efficiency of its enterprises and guarantee a solution to social problems. In focusing on the systemic approach, I would first of all like to address structural imbalances, both intra-sectoral and inter-sectoral. This will improve the competitiveness of not only fuel and energy products, but also machinery, metallurgy, transport, agri-industrial complex, housing and utilities. Practical implementation of certain programmes and objectives, and mechanisms for the creation of competitive and efficient energy markets, adaptation of fuel and energy complex enterprises to market conditions and efficient use of energy capacity and the development of energy production, diversification of sources such as energy supply and integration of energy systems. All of this will strengthen the energy security of our State. The Government's financial recovery mechanisms, as well as public and local finance, will provide the necessary prerequisites for the revitalization of innovation and investment processes, the creation of new productive jobs, wage growth and the resolution of socio-humanitarian problems. Respectable colleagues, distinguished people's deputies, the Committee is most supportive of the Government's Programme of Action. As I have noted, the Cabinet of Ministers is indeed ready to work together with Parliament. By supporting the Government programme before the Supreme Council, we will create a solid basis for progress towards the goal, promotion, well-being of the Ukrainian people based on sustained economic growth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u90	Valentina Petrovna Seminouk, from the Special Control Commission. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u91	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear voters, colleagues, government officials! The Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatisation reviewed the Government's Programme at its meeting and concluded that the Programme should reflect all the observations made at parliamentary hearings. It's nice that, in the 12th year of independence of Ukraine, the government got involved and decided to take stock of state property. Finally, I think we're going to have a proper register, and, I think, the district councils, and the district administrations are going to do those registers about utility property. But I'm wondering if territorially it's going to be done or if it's going to be sectoral. Because, given that the President created a DUSU for himself, that is, State administration of affairs, the ministries are currently creating for themselves the MUSI, or enterprises that are directly subordinated to the ministries. And I understand them because the new privatization programme for 2002-2005, which the government is planning to bring to the session hall, and this is a top priority of the programme, provides for a sectoral principle of privatization. I mean, Parliament accepts the program, and subroutines will be accepted by the Cabinet of Ministers. And then, if, until now, according to article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State Property, industries such as alcohol factories, gas and ammonia, railways, nuclear power companies and so on are not subject to privatization, then a green street will be opened after the adoption of the privatization programme to privatize such industries. In this situation, I am particularly concerned about the fate of the President. What will be the area of the enterprises under the President's service in the form of DUS enterprises? And after the President's decrees, which are issued under the heading "Publication Is Not Suitable", where it is given the right to privatize the DUSI, who will be privatizing, the State Property Fund or the same DUSI? It's nice that the Cabinet of Ministers has finally come to terms with the program of preserving and financing the National Academys and the Academy of Sciences, which today is in the ministry's knowledge, but, dear ones, the train has already left. Most of the facilities are stretched out. Today, especially in large cities, especially Kiev, there is mass hunting for these facilities. Despite the fact that in accordance with the Ukrainian Law, "On the List of Objects That Are Not Privatized", these objects are stretched out, and believe me, they are stretched, not by scientists, but by the great patronage of officials. An example is the patronage of Dmitri Volodymyrovich by the Institute of Bread. Dear Vitaly Fedorovich, I'd like you to understand. Because at a meeting of a special committee, we will be given a proper assessment. Why do the Bread Institute want to privatize today? I'm particularly concerned about the way that we do on a committee meeting, and we're almost constantly looking at the issues of young health complexes, sports clubs, health care, you're recording in the program that you're going to be worried about our growing generation, about treatment facilities. But I do want you, Vitaly Fedorovich, to analyze how much remains of state and municipal property today, especially the sanatoriums. And especially when we have a period of severe tuberculosis, sanatoriums to treat, people to treat where there is a suitable oscerculosis, these relevant areas have already been completely eliminated, and most of them are being treated, not by people who need treatment, but by those who have adequately tight wallets. And the last. Dear Vitaly Fedorovich, if you look at the orders of the State Committee on Land Resources, that is, the sublegal acts that today distort not only the Earth Code, but also the President's decrees, but on these orders there is a green street for the realisation of the land, and also a forecast for its sale through the electronic system, I want to tell you, if this rule remains, we are currently looking for who bought the skynergo. One is sitting in Washington, driving on the phone; the other bought through the Czech Republic, manages Moscow. If we sell the land in this way, we'll be looking tomorrow for who bought Ukraine. Please take this rule out of the government program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u92	Vladimir Puzakov. Let's move on to the national MPs' speeches, three minutes at a time, respectable colleagues, as we agreed. Yuri Carmazin, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u93	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština I'm not speaking from the committee, I'm speaking from the faction, I'm speaking from the people. The government's agenda, Your Honor, is another noodle on the people's ears, but longer and more unprecedented, it's an attempt to powder people's brains. How many times have we heard about the stability of the country's economic situation, the significant disruptions in individual sectors of the national economy, and in fact the people are convinced that its standard of living is falling further. Like, let's say you can achieve an increase in gross domestic product this year, even a slight 5-6 percent if industrial production is barely chewing. Today, most factories and factories as a result of destruction and capture are dead and inactive, people thrown out on their own, unemployment has become a borderline phenomenon for many millions of former workers and engineering workers. Recently, I had to be in the small center of the town of Kirov. There was once a car company of 150 cars, and today we have only the walls of former garages that no one is protecting anymore. Rubbers from the face of the earth are also a rysylgetechnician, a raichemist, a powerful paradise with its processing facilities, a cheese factory, and animal complexes. What, though, about people? Should they go begging or stealing? Is this the only situation in the city of Ustinyevka? It's everywhere, and it's not just in our area. So why doesn't the government program provide for a specific self-renewal of industry, transportation, construction, and other important areas. Who will worry about giving people jobs? Do we hope to have a piece of cake from Iraq where no one was waiting for us? Or we could take an agro-industrial complex. What is happening here and what is happening as a result of the implementation of the "Kuchmew" agrarian reform has recently been discussed at parliamentary hearings: the destruction is even greater. Once a thriving village that fed more than Ukraine today is unable to climb on its own. When it was so that the former herd would not have grain that went abroad for no price. And the prices of bread, sugar, other products are constantly rising. Here's your concern for the standard of living of the people. Who should be responsible for the fact that in villages people starve and sit without a job, relying solely on their own pies and on supporting farms? Unfortunately, the government’s program does not provide for a major increase in the production of all, without the exception of important foods, both in vegetation and in animal production. So let's write in the program about the reproduction of the destruction of animal farms and complexes, we'll find technology for the peasants, we'll ask the newly discovered real masters why the land is neglected, why it's being used in carnage. [[in quotes]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, I suggest you support the idea that we continue our work for 15 minutes so that we can complete this issue. Is there no objection? Thank you. Please, Yuri Carmazin, Anatoly Frost will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u95	Yury Karmazin, Party Protectors of the Motherland, Solidarity, Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow MPs, a reverend and suffering Ukrainian people! It seems to me that today both Mr. Prime Minister and many of those who spoke here and took the floor from the committees, even though the committee's decision was not taken to approve and shout "Odobriams." But they've used these committee heads today, and many of you and probably the radio audience will believe what President Kuchma has long believed, that the country has begun to live better, which is actually going to grow. So you don't even know what GDP is in the state today, Victor Fedorovich. I thought maybe you'd see. You don't know, because the semi-economics of the state are in the shadows. And I'll open your eyes. Two thirds in the shade, not half. And in order to get this economy out of the shadows, you have to plan for action, you have to get it out. Most people already say that everything is done. It's not for candy! The crew costs 500 grand. I don't know. These are today's prices, not a box of sugars. So maybe the forty-seven million people would believe what's better, but it's not always out of the country where the economy minister is, and you're often, and the president, and we see real life. You were talking about VAT return, you were asking about the government. And where is the government position? 3.9 billion debt today after VAT returns. In fact, government and tax administration have become cemeteries of Ukrainian exports. Why? It is not clear that it is not possible to move forward at all without solving the issue. So let's go now, I put in a bill a year ago on a change in the system of control organs, let's change! It's got to be all in one hand, all the money. Doesn't that make sense? I asked a question and thought that you might hear it through questions. I'm told that the Cabinet of Ministers is considering a request made at a meeting on illegal billing and collection of taxes on added value from housing, repairs, construction work from citizens. 20 percent of all Ukrainian citizens are involved illegally, I've tried to prove it, I've given it to you. The Bible says that they are judged according to their deeds. I asked you to cancel the order that Kynach signed -- I gave 22 hectares of relic forests to one party with the letter "o." We didn't. I asked you to stop now. I'm done. The end of Chernobyl law enforcement, the annulment of those decisions. We're paying the niggers three bracelets of everything instead of what's legal. And nothing until it's used. That's why it ends, Vladimir Mikhailovich, not my time, the time of criminal power is running out. And my time will come for all the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u96	Well, we believe that, too. Please, Anatoly Frost. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u97	83rd constituency, Zaporezic district, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Honorable Chief, Honorable Colleagues, Members of the Government! In his speech, Prime Minister Janukovic stated that the main objective of government policy set out in the government's programme of activities - openness, effectiveness, efficiency - is to improve the quality of life of the population. And it's very good that the government has these goals, and the program seems to have these notions. Even better, the program was the result of fruitful cooperation between the legislative and executive branches of government. But here, I think you might disagree, because when you look at it, it's only in the program of managing constructive cooperation with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, setting up a constructive dialogue, improving the legislative process. And here are some development programs that have been considered and adopted in due course by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As Minister of Economics said yesterday, Mr. Horoshkovsky, we took them as many as 216, but in the government program, there's nothing about them. Not to mention the parliamentary hearings held in the Supreme Council with the participation of the general public, they usually end with the adoption of the Supreme Council's ruling on the results of parliamentary hearings. To avoid being loud, let me give you an example: we take section 4.2 of the government's programme, "Creating a competitive agricultural sector of the economy." There is a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to recommend parliamentary hearings on the progress of reforms and measures to improve the situation in the country, which states that the Government's 2003 and the following years will take into account the position of the parliamentary hearings recommendation. What are we talking about? Every year, in the development of the National Budget of Ukraine project, provide for funding for the APC sector, which would ensure full compliance with the Ukrainian Law on the Priority of Social Development of the Village and the Agricultural Complex in the People's Farms, the Promotion of Agriculture for 2001-2004, land pay, and approved by the President of Ukraine's Decree on the State Social Development Programme until 2005. Next item. In the first half of 2003, there was also no discussion at the Cabinet of Ministers on the state of implementation of the State Rural Employment Programme. In the fourth quarter of 2003, a draft Ukrainian agricultural policy doctrine for 2004-2013 was not available for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Recommend that the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine take urgent measures to detect and remedy violations of legislation in the process of reforming the APC on the protection of the rights of citizens of landowners, as we see nothing. Please tell us what further specifics the Government Programme requires, which should accumulate all the programs that we are discussing here and the laws that we are adopting today. So I think that the government programme that we're proposing today needs to be worked out, detailed, and then, of course, we need to accept it as a program. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u98	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Prepare Salamatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u99	Dear national MPs, distinguished Prime Minister, distinguished members of the government! I would like to stress first that what my predecessors said is not worth repeating, but nevertheless I would like to stress what has not been said. The government's program, the normal thing, the document's declarant, it can't contain itself and it doesn't have any concrete steps, it's a declaration, and I think with this declaration, the government is looking to get the authority it's been entrusted with in the same program. But let's go back to the facts. We have a very serious energy situation in Ukraine. You see, out of six oil companies, five are no longer in Ukraine. How to look at it. Who recycles whose oil? If this goes on, we're essentially going to have a concession for the gas pipeline transport system next. So Ukraine is once again losing ownership. And where her profits will be in this situation. Electricity trade. Ukraine is probably the only country in the former post - Soviet space that has so many nuclear power stations. Why is there no electricity trade? Why do we not have the ability to provide electricity? Why is there a power surge in Ukraine, in the country that manufactures it? If we have most of the black people, they don't sow, they don't get together, here's the subscripts, as it turns out, were. And there have been some problems. What problems do we have with electricity? We have to, and we have to do the export of that energy that we have to eventually have the surplus and we don't know why we don't have it. Coal is also a problem. We will talk many times about the need to solve this problem. But until there's a fixed normal program for the government to come out of the energy crisis, there's nothing we can do. And whatever programs are written here, there will still be no basis for these programs. And that's what's important. Because there are words, and there are means to embody those words. There are dreams, and there are means to make these dreams come true. And that's why I think that the government's dreams in this program can only be realized if there's enough control over the use of electricity, the means to produce heat and all the things that are somehow lacking in Ukraine, and they have to be in excess. When I find out that people in my district this winter, a few families, are frozen, because there have been heat breaks, I don't know which country we live in. How can we talk about the program, not the exit from the crisis, but the program, when we have the victim during the heating season. That's why I'm stressing. Until the problem is resolved, that is, the cost of implementing the program, it will, unfortunately, remain only a declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u100	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! Dear government officials! Yuri Solomatin, Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, Communist faction. I would like to draw attention to the very chapters that our committee is looking after and, above all, to the issues related to the minimization of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. There are some great lines: "Implementation of debt payments in the past years from compensation and relief to the Chernobyl disaster victims." It's known that this debt is 643 million dollars, and it's going to accumulate. Why not write down a specific obligation in this program: 50 percent to repay this debt in 2003 and 50 percent in 2004? If that is not the case, it will be a manifesto or a declaration of good intentions. The Chernobyls don't believe that anymore. Next. There are these lines: "To improve legislation in order to increase the efficiency of budget use and to ensure the targeting of social and health protection for victims." The Chernobyl people don't believe this address social assistance. We have a bunch of letters on the committee from the injured, from the public organizations. There will be a very harsh discussion. The committee split in half to discuss the matter. But I want to pay attention to the following. This so-called targeted social assistance, both in terms of the Chernobyl population and in terms of pensioners and other disadvantaged populations, is a disguised social engineering tool for our people, a collective people for the purpose of turning into individuals like what is in Europe and the United States. Our people have never given their consent. Please consider this, Your Honor. Creating conditions for the recovery and continuous economic development of areas affected by radioactive pollution. Enough with the proposals to create a new program, we need to figure out where we're going to take the extra money to the 2.2 billion dollars that are not enough to provide social protection and to pay for the benefits and compensation that this debt has already incurred. We can put together any beautiful programs, but if we don't set a certain amount of money specific, any program won't go. And that's what happens to all the other programs on ecology, water conservation, geological exploration, and so on and so forth. So I'd like to end with the following words: we don't need a Declaration of Good Purposes, we need a manifesto, we need a specific commitment, we don't have any in this Program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u102	Yes, please, Victor Fedorovich Janukovic, Prime Minister, your word. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. If you need it, if you need it, after the Prime Minister we can discuss it again, the whole government will be in full. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u103	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I listened very carefully to all the comments, suggestions, critical questions in the speeches. They deserve to work on them. I agree. But you know that we live with you all in one state, and if these critical remarks I heard from the neighbors, I'd understand them, because 50 percent of those observations we have to do together, but we're going to do as gradually as we can, and we're going to declare, as some of the speakers here said, intentions, believe me, I'm not a mature politician yet, if the Olympics tell me from the Olympic Committee to compare me to some politicians, then I have a first class. So believe me, everything we've written down in this program will be properly worked out in the plans for the implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers, and we'll be responsible, we'll report and we'll execute. If something doesn't happen to us like we wrote, we're living people, we're sometimes making mistakes, we're going to fix them ourselves. And if you help us, we will always be very grateful. And so they don't judge harshly. That's why I'm done. What I've heard today, with great respect to this, I refer to every speaker, and we'll take everything into account in the program that's going to work on this and next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u104	Yes, thank you. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please make suggestions. Put Peter Zibank on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u105	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Victor Fedorovich, I have a specific proposition for you. You know, those goals that are set in the action program, they're sacred, they can't be denied. But I think that the tools that are offered for their implementation are not capable of ensuring their achievement. But I have a specific offer. You are a new person on a high - ranking Olympic and who, unlike you, is to offer new approaches. What I'm proposing is a proposal that will significantly increase the chances of adopting a government action programme. I suggest this approach. The first is to identify some of the major economic positions that you've received as an inheritance from the previous government. Second, you offered tools. And thirdly, the government guarantees that once this program is implemented, these numbers are going to be like that, and so on. This will greatly increase the chances of this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u106	Honorable colleagues, distinguished national deputies, who will have comments, claims about the organization and discussion of the matter? Please, John the Rabbit. Ivan Aleksandrovitch, we have two minutes left, let's make an offer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u107	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think we should continue the discussion for at least a few minutes. The thing is, you didn't say you were taking the risk. The MPs were preparing, for example, I was preparing. So if you were to continue for at least 15 minutes, those deputies who are in the hall would be able to add and speak. My suggestion is that we continue for 15 minutes, because the term you set in 40 minutes for the deputies is not exhausted.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-16-m0.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, I've extended your offer for 15 minutes, and there's still an offer to continue for 15 minutes. Please vote. For-27 What I can do, Ivan Alexanderovich, I have no right. Ladies and gentlemen, we've completed our discussion of the project of the Cabinet of Ministers' Programme of Action, which we've been dealing with for 10 hours and 30 minutes without interruption. I think most of the opportunities were to speak out. I apologize to those who have not been able to speak, and I ask you to add your speech to the transcript. We'll make a decision tomorrow on the day of the vote. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. From 15 hours of parliamentary hearings, "Regional policy and local self-government in Ukraine: legislative aspects." I would like to ask the people's deputies to participate actively in these parliamentary hearings. What's more, it's gonna be a full broadcast. From 16 o'clock -- so is work on committees and factions. Tomorrow is the day of the Supreme Council's decision. Thanks for the job.
