ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:50]] Registered -430 There are 430 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputy of the Ukraine of Hmelnicky Vasil Ivanovich. Let us welcome him and wish him success in his parliamentary activities and in his personal life. Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, I inform you of the exit of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Razwadovski Viktor Josephovich from the Democratic Initiative Group, Topolovo Viktor Semenović from the National Election Group. I can't hear you. I told you about the way out. Well, we don't know where they're going. Well, they went out to the non-faction room. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations we have 30 minutes to announce requests, statements, messages and proposals by national MPs. I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for statements, messages and suggestions. And in the meantime, if there's no objection, I'm going to announce the questions that came from you, the national MPs. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Stepan Cloud to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on debt repayment from salary payments to former employees of the State Building and Industrial Company Atomspecbud. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:22]] For 101 Decision taken. Paul Žebrovsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the water supply status of the city of Berdichev of Žitomir district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:48]] For-125 Decision taken. Georgia Manchulenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of flood control in the region of Putill. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:16]] For 104 Decision taken. National Deputies Groups: Mokchan, Tanjuk and Joulinski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the administration of the transfer of the building to the Museum of History of Kiev to the Supreme Court of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:47]] For-92 Decision taken. Valentina Savitsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the gasification of the Polish districts of the Žitomir region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:14]] For 105 Decision taken. Jurya Artemenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of the Ukrainian Act of 22 May 2003 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2003 [[regarding the settlement with the Slovenian bank's investors]] I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:52]] For-161 Decision taken. Mary Markusz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the additional allocation of funds for the removal of victims from active displacement zones in the Tatevian region of the Zakartat region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:24]] For the 120th. Decision taken. Leukka Lukyanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the delay in responding to a request for a review of the use by the Ministry of Education and Science of State funds for the production of textbooks for students. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:57]] For-140. Decision taken. Peter Simonenck to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the invocation of the responsibility of the director of the state television company Krim Kozubski for violating current legislation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:29]] For 111 Decision taken. Bogdan Kostinuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to implement Ukraine's 2003 State Budget in part of the financing of the state-owned plant "Caliential Plant" to eliminate the environmental consequences of its activities. [[10:10:03]] For the 110. Decision taken. Vladimir Yeshchenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the management of the Cherkasi-Gaz stock company in relation to the Kaminsky community of gas management. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:36]] For the 110. Decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for ignoring the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to build a state-owned historical and memorial complex of victims of famine, political repression and violent deportation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:09]] For 106 Decision taken. Valentina Semenyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for not responding to the privatisation committee for violations in the sale of the shares package of the Equal Nitrogen Association. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:42]] For 168 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the abuse of the position of individual employees of the Department of Internal Affairs and the Prosecutor's Office in the Lviv region in the examination of the facts concerning the road accident committed by the head of the Drogby court. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:23]] For 118 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the repeated appeal to the district authorities, the area of the group of shareholders of the Ulyssian Sugar Plant of the Kirovograd district on the issue of the repayment of arrears from wages. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:58]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Mikoli Nosenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the abuse of office by individual employees of the Montenegrin Transportation Prosecutor's Office. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:26]] For 122 Decision taken. Vladislav Atrovchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the sentence of the Slavotic Local Court of Kiev and the renewal of the constitutional rights of the convicted citizen of Grabovski. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:56]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Petrenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the gravity of the disability group in the case of the former employee of the Suma Industrial Association, Frunze. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:26]] For 132 Decision taken. Bogdan Kostinuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the abuse of the Carpathian forest resources and the use of measures to preserve them. I'll bet you a vote to send the request. [[10:14:56]] For-162 Decision taken. Vladimir Bondar to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the violation of effective law by officials of the Volin district government. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:26]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Alexander Golub to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine for violations of the competition to replace the post of Director of the Public Education School of Social Rehabilitation in Gorlovka. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:58]] For 109 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Ministry of Science and Education of Ukraine, Head of the Lviv District State Administration, for the removal from office of the Director of the Long School of the Drogobitsky district of Lviv district for the abuse of a position of service in the recruitment of his son. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:34]] For 111 Decision taken. Mikoli Tomenka and Yuri Artemenko to the minister of Ukraine for the extraordinary situation and for the protection of the population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Heads of the Ukrainian Court of Auditors on sources of funding for the conduct of the All-U.S. Operation Hero Rescue of the Year. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:12]] For 135 Decision taken. Vladimir Simonov to the Ukrainian Defence Minister regarding the provision of assistance to a family of soldiers who had died during international military training. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:40]] For 133 Decision taken. Alexander Golub to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the delay in the trial of the Court of Justice of the city of Dnipropetrovska. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:08]] For-100 Decision taken. Mikli Tomenka to the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration on sources of funding for the publication in the Russian Federation of Leonid Kuchma's Book "Ukraine - Not Russia". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:37]] For-160. Decision taken. Georgia Manchulenka to the head of the Montenegrin District Administration for the restoration of funding for the information programme of the general educational institutions, the computerization of rural schools for 2001-2003 in the Cherniewsky region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:11]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Valentina Savitsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure by officials to perform the duties of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the parliamentary questions announced at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:41]] For-96 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies: Saints, Dobkin and others - only 6 national deputies to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the head of the Court of Appeal of Kiev, the head of the High Council of Justice for violating the principles of justice to the judge of the Court of Appeal of Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:18]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Mikoli Polishchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the provision of drinking water and for the gross violation of the right to health and the threat of an epidemic disaster of gastrointestinal diseases in the multi-thousand village of Pokotylovka Kharkiv region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:56]] For-173 Decision taken. Mr. Mikoli Polishchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, for the preparation of medical personnel at Ukraine’s higher educational institutions. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:26]] For-157. Decision taken. Vladislava Ostrovchenko to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the illegality of the Montenegro Niwa market and the acquittal of these actions by the official U.S.O.S., local authorities and judicial authorities. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:02]] For-166 Decision taken. Let's move on to the speeches of the national MPs with statements, reports, information. That's 15 minutes left. Ludmila Kirichenko, faction of Ukraine, prepare Avramenko. Please indicate the names of the national deputies who have signed up for the talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u2	Honourable People's Deputies, Honourable Bureau. Today, there is an extremely critical situation with regard to coal in the coal regions. Thus, in my 108 district, Krasnoluzhski, Preval region, there are 60,000 pensioners, 70 of whom are miners. Under the law, they must be provided by domestic coal enterprises where they have worked their whole lives. What's really going on? The coal industry is in the deepest crisis. In 2002, only 20 companies out of 165 implemented the mining plan and were profitable. According to the Government, this year's deficit in government support for the coal industry will amount to 2.5 billion bracelets. Where to get coal if the production is constantly decreasing. For example, my Donbass-Anthracite, a state-owned enterprise, implements only 26 per cent of the production plan. Compare, in 2000, 1.5 million tons were collected by the holding company and only 412,000 tons of mountain mass were collected during the 8 months of this year. What can be the source of domestic coal? If 21,000 tons of coal is produced before the end of 2003 according to business projections. And to provide fuel to workers and retirees of the former holding company, 51,000 tons is required. The total domestic debt over the previous three years is 223,000 tons, almost all of which is currently being developed. Public enterprises are simply unable to provide their pensioners, coal veterans. People have to buy it at market prices, which is 250-270 bracelets per tonne. Of course, pensioners don't have that kind of money. In order to acquire the coal needed for winter, they must pay 90 per cent of their pensions. As a result, a mining family that has spent its entire life underground is forced to freeze in an unheated house. This situation is not just in my district. The problem of domestic coal is further compounded by the closure of mines. The closure of mines is due to a significant increase in concessional categories. Carbon restructuring provided coal-closing pensioners. It was now decided to transfer the functions of providing these sectors of the population to the Labour and Social Protection Office. For example, there were 232 people in my Krasnoluž region on concessional account. Today is 1137. The level of funding remains the same. As a result, these people have little or no coal. I would like to stress the lack of domestic fuel subsidies for the concessional category of the population. Third serious situation. Today we are talking about the need for investors to come to all sectors of the national economy. But the coal industry is a special industry. Yes, investment is necessary, but the State must formulate very strict requirements for an investor to protect social security. There is no solution to the problem of providing domestic fuel to mines that have been hit by an unscrupulous investor. There is absolutely no preparation for land and no breach of the investment treaty.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u4	I want to finish. If an investor comes to the mine, it's his job to secure coal. But it must be the State's strongest control, and the provision of carbon to people should be a priority in the design and approval of investment programmes. On the professional holiday of the miners, I was in the district, meeting people. Veterans are extremely concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u6	the situation and are ready to take extraordinary measures to cover the roads, to send walkers to Kiev and so on. Social tension isn't just high, it's explosive. What kind of political power the tired people will believe, that's what it is. Dear colleagues, it's up to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u7	Thank you. Thank you. Vladimir Avramenko, faction of Ukraine. You won't? Vladimir Stretovic, faction of our Ukraine, please. Do you pass the word? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u8	Please, Jojik, the national MP from "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u9	People's MP, Jojik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u10	Jaroslav Jojik, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party, Ternopilish. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! On the night of August 29th and 30th, the heart of the sincere patriot of Ukraine, the devoted son of the land of Ternopil, John Gavdida, stopped beating. The murderous hand of the killer has claimed the lives of the head of the Ukrainian deputy faction in the Ternopil district council, one of the leaders of the organization of Ukrainian nationalists. We, fellow John's colleagues and friends, the faction of "Our Ukraine" are truly saddened by the incorrigible loss and are no less sincerely outraged by the actions of law enforcement agencies and investigations into his murder, which law enforcement is looking at as a result of the fall to asphalt. Do you believe that a person in the prime of his life, who was only 36 years old, could have died of a fall? Why fall so that the medics fix the fracture of the skull? John was all in the blood. It was hardly possible to fight like this simply by falling. However, as reported at the headquarters of public relations in the Air Force and in a letter from the minister of the interior, the head of the Supreme Council was added to the version of the fall itself. Other facts have been identified that do not support the victim’s violent death. Instead, a close friend of the victim, deputy of the second and third convocations, Michael Ratushny, claims that his forensics have reduced the cause of death in a completely different way: the fatal injury was caused by a blunt object. The back of the head. This is also true of investigators who are directly involved in the investigation. As we can see, there is a serious difference in the views of the management of the U.S.S.C. and the direct performers. There have been times in our history when, prior to the investigation, the management of the U.S.S.A. claims a version and then forces the subjects to follow this version. Where is the hidden truth in this case? This is what friends and colleagues want to find out about the family of the deceased. After all, the whole of Ternopolishka, who is deeply enraged by this murder. And given that Gavdida was not just a member of the district council, but the head of the deputy faction "Our Ukraine", one of the tight UN officials and a prominent public political figure of the country, who courageously defended the national sanctuary -- the Pochai Lavra -- we view his death as a political assassination and an attempt to intimidate the opposition before the presidential campaign. That's why John's friends and colleagues are calling on the Supreme Council to set up a deputy investigating commission to investigate the deaths of the heads of the "Our Ukraine" faction in the Ternopil district council of John Havdida. Experience shows that Parliament’s involvement in resonating matters helps law enforcement officials to do their work more honestly and more loyally. I personally appeal to the Supreme Council for inclusion in the agenda and for the adoption of Decree 4133 on the establishment of a commission of inquiry on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u11	Please, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko is handing over to John Alexander Gerasimov. Please, Ivan Alexanderovich, the Communist faction. Get ready for Kafarski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u12	Gerasimov, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. Many appeals by the Council of the Organization of Veterans of Ukraine, veteran organizations of persons with disabilities, pensioners caused by the Cabinet of Ministers of Decree No. 253 of 2 March last year on the replacement of privileges for veterans of targeted assistance have led the Bureau of the Council of the Organization of Veterans of Ukraine to address the leadership of the country: the President, the President of the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister, to abolish this illegal decision. Unfortunately, however, this has not been a positive solution. Moreover, administration officials in the regions indicated that veterans should write personal applications for voluntary transfer to targeted assistance for the denial of benefits granted by Ukrainian laws and make requests for various types of certificates. Otherwise, there is a risk of deprivation of benefits and targeted assistance. The Ukrainian veterans believe that the Government's intention to replace the benefits guaranteed by law to the veterans of targeted aid is nothing more than another unit to rob veterans. Is it not clear to anyone that it is only through the provisions of the law that the benefits now exist that millions of destitute veterans of war, labour and military service of Ukraine are able to survive?Oh, my God! In the context of miserable pensions, which are 2-3 times below the fixed subsistence minimum, continuous inflation processes, uncontrollable and ever-increasing prices of utilities, transport services, food, electricity and now medicines, no targeted aid will be able to fully replace veteran benefits. Infringing the legitimate benefits for those with weapons of bloodshed by protecting their Fatherland in the years of the Great Homeland War, who waged a victory in the rear, working in factories, factories, mines, mines, in colossal fields, which have revived after the war the people's farms of the country, guarding the peaceful work of the Soviet people, cannot be regarded as cynical abuse of them. And it is such a gift to prepare for power in honour of the 60th anniversary of the Victory to veterans of 14 million veterans of war and labour, and the Ukrainian military service strongly protest against the anti-human actions of the authorities and demand that the Supreme Council do not allow these unlawful decisions to be carried out! Do not narrow down the social rights of citizens guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. In practice, this will be preceded by a campaign of protests by war and labour veterans, and military service, Chernobyl, pensioners, to be held tomorrow, 11 September, which will mean a total rejection of the Government's intention to deny benefits. This action will be continued by the all-Ukrainian protest, which will take place on 26 September in the regions and on 30 September in Kiev. The veterans are grateful to the Bureau of the Central Committee of the Company of Ukraine for its initiative and fully support it. On the basis of what we have stated, veterans, we demand: the first - immediate repeal of the illegal decree of the Cabinet of Ministers 253 of 2 March last year and the repeal of the Order of the Supreme Council of 19 June 2004 on the implementation of this order as of 1 January 2004; and the second - veterans require specific measures to fully implement the Law on the Status of War Veterans and to guarantee their social protection, and to comply with the legal provisions on the social protection of war veterans, veterans, Chernobyl workers, who are key to the life of veterans! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u13	Vladimir Kafarsky. Oh, Oleg Petrov, please, Kafarsky is passing it on to Oleg Petrov. The faction of the People's Democratic Party. Get ready for Kenzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Worldwide, reports of mass disease in the city of Suchool Lugansk region have been reported as a result of the consumption of unsuitable water. Clearly, this problem existed long before these catastrophic events occurred. A similar problem is faced by powerless authorities in Montenegro as well. These are the clearings of the village of Makoshino in the district of Chernigiv. For ten years now, sewage has been flowing through the edge of clean buildings and spilling into the country’s fences. [[It's scientific, it's simple, it's a village thing that doesn't sink in water.]] As you know, most common wells are fed by a chieftain, so there is no need to talk about the natural cleaning of the water. We should thank God that there is no such thing as Sudole disease. But will nature continue to punish us for our negligence and negligence? We remember that these sewage do not remain in Manské, but the Enchanted Right swims to Dnipro, where water and cyanites drink, and 30 million Ukrainians drink, and we are with you respected colleagues and government officials, and all present in this room. Everyone knows about the inconvenience. The Chernobyl area, the Men’s District State Administration, the district administration of ecology and natural resources, not to mention the Makushin Village Council. But the reconstruction mechanism was not offered by anyone. For 10 years, everyone's been playing paper football. Maybe it's because the smell and the feces don't spill out in front of those windows and the Dnipro Supreme Council isn't that close. And perhaps because it is very easy not to resolve people’s problems, it is easy to explain the lack of funds. Scientists claim that where the low population capacity makes it impossible to provide natural benefits, the State or authorities of the local administration should take care of this. I do not believe that our government officials have the immunity to nature’s diseases and human needs. I call on the government, our budget profile committee, to prepare the State Budget project for next year to address this acute problem. There is a need for a centralized allocation of funds to be made. Ukraine’s accession to the General Agreement on Tariffs of Trade introduced standards in its territory as voluntary in the field of environmental protection. Both the Charter adopted in the Danish city of O. in 1994 and the European Charter of Cities and Lands of Permanent Development obliges the territories not to create problems in the future of the surrounding area, and if such problems arise, they must be resolved together. People need to know that the incompetence will be stopped at last, otherwise the thunder will strike, and the baptism will be late. Please consider my statement as a parliamentary request. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u15	Jaroslav Kenzior, “Our Ukraine” faction. Is Jaroslav Kenzier going to perform?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u16	Jaroslav Kenzior. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I ask that you pass the word to Mikola Kulczynski in connection with the destruction of 36 Ukrainian schools in Donetsk, where Mikola Kulczynski visited. I'm asking you to make his proper application.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u17	Mikola Kulczynski, "Our Ukraine" faction. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The closing of Ukrainian school 1 and 2 degrees No.36 in Donetsk is a eloquent testimony to the rejection by the leaders of the city of constitutional law of Ukrainian citizens of teaching their children in national language. It also sheds light on another phenomenon that is common to many local authorities in Ukraine. It's to turn them from an expression of the interests of members of the territorial community into an uncontrollable force that in all ways protects its own selfish corporate or clan interests. Prior to the liquidation of School No.36, the Donetsk authorities prepared not one year and well now Deputy Prime Minister Dmitri Tobacco to argue the closure of the school with low school enrolment. But what about the tears of one child on whom the Russian classic Dostoyevsky could not build a future? In Donetsk School No. 36, dozens of children were crying and no tears after the redefinition of the City Council session, which confirmed the school’s liquidation. And what about the fact that in recent years the district education department has banned children from the first classes of school No. 36, and 17 children from this year’s school have been scattered across Russian classes of other schools? 22 10-year-olds whose parents filed applications for education in Ukrainian in 36th grade were not accepted either. The same was true of the 24 claims made by the parents of the children who submitted them to other classes of the school. So who is responsible for the underemployment of the school 36 by the liberated director of Prokopovich or the authority whose actions are aimed at denying the constitutional right of children to learn the language of the State, justified in fact by Vice-Prime Minister Dmitr Tobacco? Maybe the authorities are telling me that the school-class walls are adorned with quotations from Shevchenk, Sossyra, the Forest of Ukraine: "Love your Ukraine," "Without language of family and our people," "And learn from strangers, and don't turn away from yours." Or it may be that the school has a good condition, a sports course, and that is a five - minute drive from the center. So what's not the temptation to repeat the experience of kindergarten number 177 turned into a Hollywood night club instead of a planned Ukrainian-language high school. There is much more to be said about the action of the pre - Christian leaders of education with the blessing of the city’s head, Lukyanchenka, who, by force, truth and falsehood, seek to make their own decisions rather than carry out the legitimate wishes of the members of the territorial community they represent. These actions dehumanize both the city’s education system and the city’s life, creating a coalition of oppression. To whom, by no means, the Deputy Prime Minister will not feel or see this climate of oppression, humiliation of human and national dignity. But that didn't happen. Instead of meeting with the parents and teachers of school 36 and having a frank conversation with them, the vice-premier has arranged a meeting with the principals of the Lenin district and the teachers of school number 45 for a meeting with the parents of the school number 36. In the light of the above, the National Movement of Ukraine proposes: to hold an immediate exit meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on Education and to study the issue of closing school number 36 in a comprehensive manner. The Attorney General's Office will file a warrant for the decision of the City Council of Donetsk as a violation of the constitutional rights of the community. The Ukrainian People's Movement respects the variety of cultural traditions that have arisen in Ukraine as a result of subservient historical development, but we will never accept both the denial of the constitutional rights of citizens and the suppression of the rights of Ukrainians to free their own cultural life on earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've been here a long time, but according to the Law on the Status of People's Deputies, in accordance with the Rules, I give the floor, one minute, to Vladimir Puzakov for. We're out of time. I'm being criticized. Once again, my fellow Members, who, in accordance with the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, is entitled to the Rules of Procedure, has the right to speak in order to assess the answer to a parliamentary request. The time is now, sadly, over. But there are two applications. I'm acting strictly up to the rules. Please, Vladimir Puzakov. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u20	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradčina. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I have already raised the problem of the citizens of the military city of Kirovograd-25 twice from this rostrum. But everything remained unchanged. Since 9 June, residents of this town have lived day and night on the tracks in the full sense of the word. They're just changing each other. They block the export of property, ammunition and weapons from military territory, thus seeking a solution to the question “What will happen to them after the transformation of the military.” During the three-month period of closure, the fate of 354 families in the city remains unresolved. None of the high-ranking officials of the Ministry of Defence and the district authorities want to get into the city's problems. Their concern is to put the city on the balance of the Alexandrov region. Throwing these people off like wolves in the woods to the balance of the Alexandrov region, which survives by itself. Once these people were very much in need of the State. So why did no one need them now, and they're stuck in the air? Probably because the Ministry of Defence, after all that is possible, is throwing 354 families, the elderly and the elderly into the wild. After all, in many houses the roofs have fallen into incompetence, walls and ceilings in cracks, the sewers end up in basements, and the heating and water systems need to be replaced everywhere. The Ministry of Defence would first need to put the military city in proper order by capitalizing on the housing fund of production buildings and facilities in the utilities. What care is there for these people today? They brought only 1,200 brochures and placed a stop. And so the money and the 204 apartments went out, but where and to whom the question arises: these apartments and huge amounts of money have disappeared, and for some reason no one can tell where. So openly and abruptly, they throw people alive because no one, the Ministry of Defence or the authorities, wants to pay back the money they have looted, not the small sums. However, the Ministry of Defence and the authorities are trying to intimidate, deceive, create illusions of some kind of concern for them, while at the same time continuing to destroy the military. But the destroyers and robbers must remember that they will have a trial, and the court will necessarily name the fluent individuals and the perpetrators of the open robbery of the working people, the people who live on the tracks for the fourth month. The authorities should also know that the rebels are not on the tracks, but those who advocate their right to life. They defend their armies, protect their sons from being sent to Iraq, and do not bow their heads to protect piles of money magnets. The population of the town of Kirovograd 25, from small to large, will defend their rights to the ultimate victory. On two of my parliamentary requests, the then Minister of Defence, Shkidchenko, and the interim Minister of Defence, Zapinajko, did not even respond. In this regard, I would like to refer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yanuković, and the Minister of Defence of Ukraine as a re-deputy request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u21	Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u22	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I'll be clear and brief: I'm dissatisfied with the answers I get from Mr. Danilenko about the situation in the Cherkas region, the Smiley region, where the peasants stole 320 acres of land. The Socialist Party faction, as a national MP, I will never stop until this issue is resolved for the benefit of the peasants. I'm talking to the leaders of the district of Guliapil district, Colossus 2000, where the authorities of the district state administration include an additional 120 people who did not work at all on the farm. According to the President's decree, these people don't have the right to land pie. Today I'd like to focus on, please, the media, attention, right here, this ball has 13 samples of pure water. This is according to the medical doctors of Johnofrakhish, the Valley Region, the village of Yavorov, so I say to you that I will hand these samples to the minister of health to drink those people who say there is good water in those wells. There's 80 percent of the oil, people eat this water, they get sick, and nobody gives a shit -- some of it to me as Ukraine's national deputy. In this farm, in this village of Yavorov, the Naftogaz Valley has stolen 430 hectares of land from the people. The case is now in the Lord's Court of the Lions. I appeal to those who care about the village, to the health of our nation, to the health of the Ukrainians: we will protect our farmers! Let's protect our people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u23	Dear National Deputies! Time's up, we've already taken a lot of time. Well, it's about time. What can I do? Dear colleagues, on the subject of these issues, the suggestions that have been made in the speeches of the national MPs, I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate instructions for the central executive authorities and the law enforcement structures. Let us now consider the issues in line with the schedule of meetings. A draft law on the approval of a state-wide animal selection programme for the period up to 2010 is being announced for consideration. The committee proposes such a regulation, and I ask you to listen carefully, since you will likely have a denial: for a report of 10 minutes, for a question to a reporter — five minutes, for a report — three minutes, for answers to a question to a coconspirator — two minutes, for discussion and decision - making — five minutes. I think we should go to at least 15 minutes to talk about it. No objections? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u24	Well, even if you ask five minutes, you can't ask in two minutes. I agree with you. Is this regulation supported? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u25	Thank you. Please, Minister of Agriculture Rybuk Sergey Mikolayovich, I invite you to report on the draft law. In 10 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u26	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The legal basis for animal production, and especially tribal animalry, began to form within us in the early years of Ukraine’s independence. In 1993, the Supreme Council passed the Law on Tribal Animals. Then, six years later, in December 1999, the Law on Tribal Affairs in Animality was passed, which was already adapted to the requirements of European legislation. And finally, today you have a draft of the Ukrainian Law approving a statewide animal selection programme for the period up to 2010. It is designed to meet the requirements of article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on Tribal Affairs in Animal husbandry, and this article states that national selection programs are developed and implemented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and are approved in an established order, i.e. the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All in this room are well aware of the situation in animal production. It's complicated, let me put it this way. During the last decade, the average crop of cattle and birds has been reduced by almost two times, and the production of basic products by two and a half. In order to preserve, reproduce and continue to develop this important sector of agriculture, it is necessary to ensure its economic efficiency and, of course, market competitiveness. The main requirement of market animals is to maintain only high-class animals capable of meeting all costs with a high level of productivity and quality of production. Create the necessary feed base and introduce modern technology and production can be directly produced by each producer and owner of cattle and birds. But here, the genetic qualities of animals are provided only within the fields of animal and bird species by means of the implementation in every economically developed country exclusively in a state-wide system of selection, which enables them to grow and use only high-quality genetic resources and improve the quality of livestock and birds. In accordance with the Law of Ukraine, we introduce a program consisting of eight chapters. In order to achieve the stated goal, such basic tasks are to be accomplished. First. The creation of a network of national tribal inspections in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and all areas, areas, and the provision of special material, technical, transport and other means. The other one. Creating and ensuring the operation of a single selection system in animal production throughout the country. Third position. Ensure the preservation of the gene pool of existing local and endangered species. Especially our Aboriginal gray Ukrainian breed, which is not actually sick, is well adapted, and today, without the approval of the program, the Ministry of Agrarian Politics is substantively engaged in the reproduction of this Aboriginal breed. Four. Conservation, reproduction and rational use of tribal resources of high tribal value. Fifth position. It's the creation of an assistant supervisor and an expert bonitist service -- bonitization. Six. Introduced by the Government’s certification of tribal subjects and assigned them appropriate status in the conduct of the national tribal register. Here are six directions, six groups of problems and questions. And what I want to say is that the state has all the prerequisites for the development of domestic animals by improving the genetic quality of livestock, the intensive use and development of genetic resources, and the tribal base of the field. Of course, taking this opportunity in the report, I would like to inform the distinguished national MPs that the tribal base in animalry we have, as they say, is working, and the core core is completely preserved and produces positive results. We have 864 Tribal Breeding Farms certified, 102 Tribal Breeding Farms, which are extremely important to us. In recent years, we have brought the number of cows in the meat course from 30 to 180,000. But in order to have our own developed and high - intensity meat farming, we need at least one and a half million pure -bred carnivores in the Polish Western zone. We also have 532 certified tribal farms, 114 sheep and 117 horses. There is also a network of breeders and tribal producers in bird breeding, and this, as you can see, gives positive results. There are also three mills in beekeeping. The selection process in the field is carried out by 24 district and 64 interdistricts from tribal affairs, 6 dairy centres, 4 from meat, one from shepherds, pigs, horses, birds, beekeeping, and fishing. Saven tribal resources in the state and created new selection achievements are the basis on which animal development is based and based, and this program will be implemented, which we ask the Supreme Council to approve and approve. To a significant extent, the conservation of tribal resources in the state, the work of leading and the formation of new selection centres and high - quality tribal farms, the creation of domestic competitive species, etc., and birds have become possible through funding from the State Budget for the implementation of the animal selection program. I'll tell you, honourable national MPs, that out of the 22 programs funded by the budget in agriculture, animal selection is essentially one of the most powerful, effective and effective. For the organization of animal work at the level of the world's best examples, we're giving this program. Since 1993, we have had the primary source of support for animal production as part of the budget for the funding of the selection program. However, it should be noted that their volume is very inadequate compared to the need and does not fully provide for the real need, is not fully financed. Dear National Deputies! With regard to funding in the project, there is a plugin at the end and you can see how it is planned to allocate funds for tribal selection in animal production. They're about one order per year on average higher than they are today. But we're going to grow this funding year after year, because the only goal, the one goal, and only the state and once again the state has to hold in their hands all the selection and genetic potential of our domestic animal kingdom. The adoption of the bill will provide favourable conditions beyond any doubt for stability. the development of tribal and genetic resources by all subjects. animal affairs and will increasingly form a single system of animal selection, and it means that a proper tribal service will be created in our country. I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask you a question. On the board, please explain. Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u28	Thank you. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, Kirilchuk, Volin. I have two questions for you. First of all, I didn't find any customs protection for our tribal cause on the program. Across the border, it goes both there and back whatever it takes. How do you view this question in order to correct the question until the second reading? And the second. We will support this program. Just tell me, what should we do with those specialised tribal farms that are now completely destroyed? In particular, we have a farm called Olicke, which specializes in tribal cattle only, it doesn't happen, and pigs do. It doesn't fall into this program. Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u29	Thank you. Indeed, the more that we still have in Volina and are now deeply specialized not only in milk but also in meat farming. The first question is why is there no customs protection? We have a special customs tariff law in our country, and all these issues are reflected in this law. And if there's any need to protect export-import operations, we have not in this law, not in this program, but in the changes to the Customs Tariff Act. And we do it with you and quite often. And this law must protect. Second, what do you do with specialised tribal farms? It's this program that's supposed to go into order, that's 10 times that we're going to increase the number of tribal bases that I've called than it is. And of course, right now we're starting to have an additional inventory of our former special forces. And if there is a foundation for the development of a tribal base, we will certainly include it. Today this enterprise is excluded for one reason that its scientific and technological potential does not correspond to the qualitative indicators required for a tribal economy: the level of productivity, the level of purity of selective genetic resources, and so on. But all of these special ops will be restored, because there is both human potential, and understanding of people, and some material and technical base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u30	Yes, please, Mikola Noshchenko, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, and of the Hard Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u31	160 constituency, Matter, Deaf. Sergei Mikolaiovich, I would like to ask you a question about the name of your program. "Celebrations in animalry." As a branch, the animal industry has now passed over to the population. You will certainly not contradict this. How, then, do you want to do all the work you can to do on animals that are in the personal support farms of the population? That's the first one. The other one. Question is, I have two questions. What is the proportion of the budget, the State Budget, and the local budgets in your program? And the second. Will there not be an increase in the cost of services to the population for all the measures you are now providing for the program? You know, a horse's passport -- wages, a cow's passport -- wages, sheep, geese, chickens. Let's get them a passport. Please, will there not be increased financial burden on the population as well as on the legal personality of all forms of farming? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u32	Thank you for the very right questions. The first is about name and proportion in specialized farms and populations. The program provides for this, and we especially write that the product is simply meat and feed for every farmer, business or one - person. But it's only up to the state, the science-specialized enterprises, to bring in the proper selection and tribal affairs. So these specialized enterprises produce the best selection, genetic qualities in cattle, and they distribute this product genetically and selectively to each producer -- whether it's an individual livestock owner or a farmer or a larger production. It's about the peasant being able to, who has one head of cattle or pigs to keep, to know where to buy, where to buy, where to buy and to have the opportunity to buy both those pairs and not the calf, the calf with the right passport, with the appropriate guarantee of the state that gives it the opportunity to have high productivity on the basis of these tribal qualities, which means competitive. So here everything is perfectly right and it will bind, as it were. The other one. What's the ratio of the budget? The ratio is that we average 780 to 800 million. The money from the central budget of the whole, and from the state budget of 530-550, i.e. two-thirds is the central government budget and one-third is 200-250 million. It's from local, regional budgets every year. And the third. Is there an increase in wages? We want this fee to go down, because if we have more orderly funding for the development of the selection of animal breeding, then we will definitely go in order to use the cost of dispossessing of tribal selection materials in order for every peasant to be interested not in the market, not in the market to buy the tribal origin of the calf, to grow there or the sheep, but to know that if he buys the selection center, he will have twice the profit -- and from the fact that it's a high selection material, and it's going to be a cost, because he bought exactly where the incentive is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u33	Thank you. Please sit Sergey Mikolayovich. Time's up. I invite the head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, Sergio Mikolaiovich Tereshuk, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u34	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! This room has repeatedly addressed the problem of the animal industry, and every time we observe the negative trends that we have today. It was also during parliamentary hearings, which was during the discussion of milk and dairy laws, meat and meat products. We all come together to believe that the state of the animal business is critical. This is also very important to us in terms of the fact that the use of meat-milk products is not only far from well-founded norms, but twice as much as it was 10 years ago. And perhaps if serious measures are not taken, this may be the next problem after problems with arable products. In Ukraine, the number of headquarters decreases every month. In just 8 months this year, the head of the cattle has been reduced to almost a million. The cow’s head has been reduced by 350,000. Growing production today is all possible in agriculture, but this can only be done with the support of the State, with the influence of the State on the meat and milk market, and especially in terms of price formation. But the analysis shows that further increase in the production of dairy meat is not possible only by using intensive methods. The genetic potential of farm animals in conjunction with modern technology, maintenance, and nutrition plays a major role here. As far as genetic potential is concerned, creating new highly productive species can only be done on the basis of scientific and selective work. This can only be done on the basis of a state-wide system of selection, which shows the world’s best experience. The Minister of Agrarian Politics outlined the main positions of the program, and I want to say that it was discussed in detail on the committee. A decision has been made to support the program. But at the same time, there are important observations. First of all, the program needs to set out clearly the purpose of this program. The program says that the program is being created, one of the positions, for the creation and the material provision of the function of the national tribal service. I'm sure it's just such an editorial error, it has to be corrected. There are also issues that need to be settled. The program says "The National Tribal Service," and at the same time, there's the National Tribal Inspection. The question is, Is it the same thing, or is it different? Again, the program needs to take into account that the program will be adopted, at best, at the end of this year. The first stage of implementation was recorded in 2003. One of the important issues is that we need to take into account that we are going into a market relationship, we already have a market relationship, we don't know exactly what the state is going to do in terms of market conditions, how to protect the adopted animal property law. Of course, many comments. The committee is requesting support for this program. The second and third readings will take into account comments, suggestions, and the program can be accepted. Another point is to finance. The program notes: 350 million for the purchase of foreign breeding animals at the expense of the State Budget. I don't think it's real. Whole programs have to be more real. 350 million at the state budget -- that's too much, that's not going to happen. Therefore, it may be necessary to reduce funding and make it real, to set goals and goals that really need to be addressed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u36	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear reporter, I agree with you that the use of funds. 350 million dollars for shopping abroad is not rational, because these costs can also be used here. Do you see the need, and did the committee not comment on the fact that the actual approval of individual economic development programmes has been attributed to the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine? Since animal farming is a sector of agriculture, it was actually necessary for the government to do so. And today, in view of this, I understand that it is more important to raise the level of law, and why was this not done by the government, as you think, in the view of the committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. You know, you can agree with your question and you can give a positive answer. But the government did design a program, coming out of the Tribal Affairs Act. It provides for the creation of these programs, the Law on Tribal Affairs in Animals.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u38	Yes, Plutinski National Deputy, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u39	Plutinski, Agrarian Party. Sergei Mikolaiovich, I agree with you completely, this program needs to be supported, and we will support it. But I don't quite agree with you saying that 350 million is a lot of money for a tribal settlement, and especially buying them abroad. Maybe we really need to protect ourselves abroad. But there's probably a possibility that we can buy, in our country, we have, in Ukraine, but to reduce that amount, I don't think that's necessary. We need to restore that animalry that we have already destroyed, and many farms no longer have one head of animal production. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u40	Thank you. Vladimir Antonovich, of course, may need more money for animal farming. I was talking about that we have to put real goals ahead of us and put real numbers. 536 million government money. In 2004, I'm sure we can't find them in the budget. That's the first one. As far as buying animals is concerned. The program includes the acquisition of tribal resources, especially the high tribal value of foreign selection. I agree with you. We have good country selection, we need to support it, we need to develop it and we need to buy it right in our farms.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u41	National MP Anisimov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u42	Thank you. Please give the word to my colleague, Mr. Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u43	Please, Deputy Gmir.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u44	Thank you. Sergei Nikolaevich, I have a general question. I heard a lot of the programmes during my time in Parliament, and a lot of them were taking place. In fact, these programmes have never been reported for implementation. Until when will we adopt programmes beyond the authority of the body that accepts them and is responsible for their implementation? For 10, for 20, for 30 years, no one is reported as a result!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u45	Thank you, Sergey Petrovich. First of all, the programme is not for us, not for the MPs, but for the implementation of the programme within the State. The program cannot justify itself in one, in two, in three, in five years. So it's perfectly normal to have a program of six, ten years. On the committee, we looked at the program in both selection and animal and plantation. If there is such a need, I think the Ministry of Agrarian Politics can come to your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u46	Basil Nadrag, People's Choice Group. You won't? FROM THE PLACE THERE IS.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u47	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u48	Dear Sergey Nikolayevich, I am concerned about the subject that has already sounded here, but I would like to sharpen it a little bit. On this issue, when it is said that the source of funding will be the State budget and the local budget, I understand. There's a control system, there's a way to track the situation, so to speak. But when it's written that it's from a business entity, it's doubtful. After all, we can get to the point where we sometimes have a plan, and this plan will go down, and every area will be implemented by each area of business. The next step, and this is of further concern to me, is that some of the funds may be made by public organizations to create a society of animal breeders or selectors, and it will be under the flag of its own development, those who will need to receive their documents from public institutions or public authorities there and everything else, in fact, they will walk and give to public organizations who will be in the fights again. And then we can create a system where instead of helping the village, we create a financial pump that this village will put even more on its knees. Therefore, I think that, in general, without objecting to the existence of this programme and agreeing conceptually with it, financial issues should be strictly addressed with some rigid control. Who? Please have a profile committee. Your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u49	Thank you. Well, first of all, I'd like to point out that the program isn't just the use of funds, including budgets. The program is a set of measures that are just designed to enable you to make full use of and create normal genetic potential. So it is only natural that different sources of funding will be used in the program. In the end, all of this is meant to produce better results both in animal production and in vegetation, if it's by plantation, that's exactly what the manufacturer had. So it's no wonder that there's a lot of money involved. Worldwide, there are associations of both producers and associations of selection. Worldwide, there are companies that invest money in selection. Hence, the use of funds from various sources is being programmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u50	Thank you. Time's up. Please have a seat. Let's move on to the discussion. Please state on board the names of the national MPs who have been enrolled for the talk. 15 minutes as we agreed. Yuri Carmazin. Get ready for Puzakov. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u51	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Of course, the question is very important. Especially now that we see what's happening in agriculture. I thank the developers at least for the fact that the chapter entitled "The Modern State of the Sector" has written about the unfortunate situation that has been brought to the country by completely underdeveloped reforms under the leadership of President Kuchma. Although it would already have to be taken as Chapter 1. I grew up with a company that did business. Because my father worked there and saw what was once done in the tribal sector, including purchasing abroad, and I see what was happening in agriculture. So clearly on the question of whether to take the program or not I should say yes, we should take it. Yeah, it's supposed to be state-wide. But I would like to remind the government and the representatives of the agrarian committee that there's another law that they didn't take into account. This law was called "On State Forecasting and Development of Ukraine's Economic and Social Development Programmes. And there's an article on the 16th, which states in paragraph five that the approval of individual sector development programmes is attributed to the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So the reference to one law and not the knowledge of another does not mean that we have to ask Kabmin about work. There was more talk of animalry, no talk of beastry today, no talk of silk. And we're actually in Ukraine with products made in Turkey, in China, anywhere, and at the same time, we've forgotten that our industries are completely dead. A lot or less of what is offered in the budget. And we're actually going to make it clear that the program is intended to be accepted precisely because of the recent articles, because of the costing of the implementation of the General Selection Program. That's why we have to take her. 875 million, thousands of dollars more loyal, is that a lot or a little bit? I'll tell you that it's not the money for a 50-million-dollar state to talk about. I have a note of the program, I think I'll send it in order. First, the stages are divided. The preparatory work is to be done by those bodies that are, they have to be thrown out. And the stages end with the completion of the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In general, I ask you to accept this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u52	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction, Anatoly Frost to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u53	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Disparity in industrial prices and agricultural production, cancellation of subsidies to producers, elimination of price control, and decline in real income has led to a decline in the industry. A massive reduction in the headship of farmed animals has begun, selective tribal work has deteriorated, the optimal structure of the feeding base has been disrupted, and livestock productivity has come to a critical limit. It must also be said that increasing the number of cattle and birds should not be an end in itself, though possible. In my opinion, this headship should be highly productive, not only because of its nourishment, maintenance, and care but also because of its high fertility and tribal qualities. It is not a secret that the productivity of tribal animals under equal conditions can exceed the productivity of the barren crop on two or three occasions. The state took the right course to support animal selection, but unfortunately, it destroyed everything and then took the course. It should be noted that the funds that are being allocated do not meet the needs of agroforming. In 2002, out of 31 farms, the areas that participated in the competition of the National Animal Selection and Birds Program had a need for an amount of 4.5 million dollars. However, only 17 farms were included in the government funding scheme for 1.4 million dollars, and only 172 thousand dollars were funded, which is 3.8 percent of the need. According to the Ukrainian Law on Tribal Affairs and the 2003 National Budget for Ukraine, 70.5 million dollars have been allocated to agricultural enterprises in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2003. But somehow only 956 thousand dollars are allocated to our area, which is 1.3 percent of the total. Although according to the applications, there was a need for agriculture for about 5 million dollars. And for the restoration of Shepherding as an important sector of the national economy, State support only works at the level of promise. Thus, the country has almost destroyed its textile industry because it does not have raw materials. And you can't even find goats and sheep in farms in the area for a museum. I realize that the issue of money is a problem for the state, but it is necessary to resolve it. This will make it possible to increase the efficiency of animal farming, to ensure its profitability. And the last. We need to change the funding order. That is, the funds for the selection work should be allocated centrally by the Ministry through the district administrations of agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u54	Anatoly Frost, Communist faction. Get ready for Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u55	Anatoly Moroz, 83rd constituency, Communist faction, Zaporez region. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Minister! It's a pleasure that we're finally in the middle of a state-wide agenda like the state-wide animal selection programme for the period up to 2010. You don't have to be a great expert to not see that in Ukraine a tribal issue is in decline and on the verge of destruction due to the massive reduction of the uterine head of agriculture. I'm just going to give you one example in my area, so I don't want to be loud. In Zaporozhye region, for example, some 40,000 cattle remain today. In Soviet times, it was just as much as it was found in the cattle, grown in two areas of the Zaporozhye region, in Wesselivsky and Tokmati. Or I'll give you an example. In the district of Jakimiv, Zaporozhye, there was a famous farm called the Communist, which produced a fine sheep that was known throughout the world. Five Socialist Heroes worked in this farm. It's not there today, it's almost completely destroyed, it's ruined. There were about 12,000 in the Kirov concentration camp in the Tokmati region. The sheep. Today a huge complex, the sheep complex is destroyed. And I'm not going to talk about porking anymore, about that pig-like attitude towards this sector, because it's also almost completely destroyed in Ukraine. Therefore, a national approach is needed to preserve the gene pool in animal production. In order to preserve the gene pool of tribal activities in animal production, it is necessary to allocate budget to each head of a highly productive uterine head. The other one. It's going to take a donation from the Tribal Producers for the implementation of the Tribe. Today, about 70 percent of all animals are kept in the private sector. Therefore, attention should be paid to improving productivity and the quality of the head. To do this, we also need to provide funds for the purchase of equipment and for the organization of artificial fertilization facilities, as well as for the cost of auto-transport and cryogenic equipment for the operation of these facilities. I'll tell you, these points were in almost every farm, and they're all ruined, destroyed today. This is what the program is about, but it is important that the state devotes great attention to this particular direction. The next thing you know, we need to immediately create a pleminspection in the areas, because they're being used today. Incomprehensible origin, causing tremendous damage to the selection. Next, in the Law on Fixed Tribal and Tribal Taxes, keep it in its old form, which remains up to 50 percent of its own production. If it is not 50, but 70, as proposed by the program, it will result in the destruction of most of the tribal enterprises. In the Universal Code of Land, it is also necessary to introduce a paragraph concerning land used by tribal farms and tribal communities in order to bring these lands to the statutory fund and prevent them from being torn apart because it is clear that these tribal and tribal lands will be destroyed. And the next moment, I'd like to pay attention to the conclusion: we have to agree with the findings of science and expertise, and we're talking about whether it's appropriate to explain the issues in the program of prevention of animal diseases, especially tuberculosis and leukosis, because statistics have shown that in recent years the number of animals targeted at the forced slaughter has increased dramatically. But it should be noted that Ukraine is still a more or less prosperous state in this respect, and so our animal production, it's quality and it's using a lot of demand abroad. If we're going to take these specifics into account in this case and we're going to take these specifics into account in this program, then I think it's our pet. And our nation will have great gain from it. Tribal is a state matter, and that's why we need a state approach. Those who do not care for better seeds find poverty, hopelessness, and slavery. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u56	Thank you. Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u57	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! A tribal issue in Ukraine is being invested every year, almost every year about 5 million dollars are being allocated from the budget for the development of tribal affairs. Research by the Analytical Advisory Council on animal welfare has shown that a large horn of cattle in Ukraine is unprofitable. In terms of so - called meat farming, WRC, its percentage in the total number of VOCs is no more than 0.3 percent. And it is now very difficult to talk about the development of meat. But I think that the program should be not only about the development of tribal animals, but also about the development of the infrastructure that is needed for good animals in the country. Good animals are very sensitive to bypassing and feeding. As far as the World Summit is concerned, the most important thing in Ukraine, dear minister, is the meadows, the culture, and the quality of meadows as the basic feeding base for the development of the World Summit. Now it's about the problem of the combines. Dear friends, if there is such a price for bread, for meat, for milk, as it is now, if the price of grain is 900 dollars per tonne, all the combined food factories become unprofitable, mills become unprofitable, bakeryes become unprofitable, grain stores become unprofitable, and so on. In fact, agriculture has driven itself into a completely deaf corner. Now it's about the quality of the selection work. The genetics of avianism died entirely because of the fact that the quality of the animals in question was very low and needed to be purchased abroad. And now it's talking about 370 million bracelets needed to buy foreign animal genetic products. So you can't talk about a program if you don't talk about it's standards. The animal standards of any generation should be one that meets international standards. Ukraine’s agriculture has led to a complete crisis. So I think there's only one way out of this. It's about picking up those farms that are good-standing, both agricultural and collective. The ministry and government must rely on and fully support good farming. Without the support of these good farms, there is nothing to talk about farming at all. You know that one-third of the land hasn't been sown, you know that, like this year's buildings, they've never grown up in Ukraine. So to talk about the very large ideologies of agriculture, when the lower part of agriculture is driven to a complete catastrophe, I think it's naive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u58	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u59	The minister said that the situation in animals is difficult. The situation in animal life is catastrophic. Animals in Ukraine are destroyed as a class. We have to save the animals. This requires an appropriate feeding base, modern technology, high genetic qualities of animals, and high - quality animals. All of this will lead to increased productivity in animal production and will ensure that non-profits are overcome. In general, the nonsensence of animals is nonsensical. I would like to invite the Ministry of Agrarian Policy to offer us a program, to adopt a program to overcome the non-profit of animals. It is simply impossible to accept this situation! If we really want to provide food for our population. All of this needs to be done until it is too late, until the tribal base is preserved to some extent until it is finally destroyed. The proposed program is aimed at creating a state-wide system of selection, ensuring the preservation of Aboriginal gene pools and the formation of high-quality tribal resources for genetic potential development. There is no doubt that the program should be adopted. This is a case where, I think, each of the MPs will vote enthusiastically for this program. Some comments and suggestions. I think that in the process of preparing the program for second reading, you need to write more clearly the purpose of the program and the means of achieving it. The program is primarily a goal and a means of achievement. You need to spell out the exact terms, the stages, or the calendar of execution. Some terms need to be harmonized that have already been pointed out by a professional committee. I would also like to highlight the need for the development of a selective and prevention service, which the MPs have been talking about today. This is a very important question. Finally, the issue of financing. This is the pain point of the program. I don't think it's necessary to reduce the amount of funding -- 350 million. They say where to get them. It is proposed that the brothers from the local budgets, from the State Budget. I suggest we diversify funding sources, including private equity, maybe we need to get it from different sources. But this is the case where we cannot save. You can't save on tribal selection. It'll be easy. It's been a long time. This must be done by means of financial resources. And you have to think about where to take them, but you don't have to save money to do this program. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u60	Dear colleagues! Question completed. Do you have anything? Please, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u61	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! First of all, I am truly grateful for the depth of the program’s knowledge and sincere advice and critical comments. We have a working group that we can reach out to and count. About 350 million. We ask for support because it takes 25 years, you know? For example, it took so many years to produce an oxen breed. But we're not going to buy pure bugs, let's say. We've got sperm and embryos and embryonics and embryo transplant specialists. I mean, the whole subroutines. The other one. At what cost? Of course, subjects of entrepreneurial activity are not supposed to force them to draw funds. We want to make this program so that we can interest the private capital so that it can go and take over the estaphet from the state and be comfortable with it. Right. It's about public other organizations. It's mainly about credit peasant communities when they're in a compound and they're buying themselves tribal genetic resources and we already have that. I'll finish by saying why there were no programs before. No, they are. We have 16 sectoral programs in the Ministry today. In addition, there are subroutines for the development of pork, poultry, horse agriculture, and mass farming, because 470,000 more horses in the private sector and so forth. The other thing is that now, according to legislation, we are these programs, because they are funded from the budget, we have to run it through the Supreme Council, to approve it correctly, because it's national, state and we're doing it with you. And the last one about the goal, the stages and so on. We agree. We have two major stages in the program, but they will be developed and developed annually by the Ministry of the Program for each year after the budget, where all these steps will be more specifically described, the direction of work for that particular year. Thank you very much again for your help.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, the review of the draft law on the approval of the National Animal Selection Programme for the period up to 2010 has been completed. We will make a decision taking into account the discussion that has just taken place. We were now to consider the draft Law on the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union Legislation. There's no reporter. The point is that the Cabinet of Ministers is now meeting to discuss the question of a single economic space. And that's where the justice minister gets held up. The minister of education and science of the Kremlin is also delayed, and he has to report on the second question. If you don't mind, we will now consider draft laws amending the Ukrainian Goods Transit Act and then reverting to previous legislation. Is there no objection? Thank you. The draft laws amending the Ukrainian Goods Transit Act are being announced for consideration. Reporter of Ukraine's First Deputy Minister of Transport Abdullayev Elbrus Farman-ogle. Please. Now let's look at the procedure. One minute, now I'm going to give you the suggestions I'm going to give you to my esteemed colleagues, the rules that are proposed. For the report, five minutes, five minutes, five minutes, five minutes for the co-report, same as the discussion, ten minutes for the decision-making. This is a committee proposal. What are your thoughts? Support me? Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u63	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. You are being reviewed by the draft laws on the amendment of article 6 to the Ukrainian Goods Transit Act. This is linked in two directions to the transport complex: rail transport and aviation. Proposals and changes apply to the use of consignment notes on the border when crossing the border by air, rail, instead of declaration of cargo, which are recognized by the international rail community and accompanying documents by air are kargomanifest. The law is in agreement with the relevant government authorities. I want to add that due to the use of appropriate measures in this year only 7 months this year, the increase in transport traffic traffic has increased by 22 percent compared to the previous year. This enabled additional cargo to be involved in transport, both rail and air transport, and by air transport at the expense of the implementation of the experiment, it allowed 10 times the amount of traffic in transit at Borispil Airport alone. So when we look at this issue, we've taken into account that in order to make transit cargo more attractive to Ukraine, we need a very sophisticated legislative base that regulates transport activities, and above all, in a part of a clear regulation of the interaction between customs authorities, border, phytosanitary and other control bodies operating on the border. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u64	Questions, dear colleagues, please sign in. What are the names of the national deputies on the board? Anatoly Frost, Communist faction. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u65	I'm sorry. I don't really care about that kind of question. Say, please, it's relevant or our legislation is being distributed to auto-enterprises, the Autolux bus companies.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u66	Of course, all legal persons who are carriers in road transport work in the Ukrainian legislative field.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u67	Well, that's good, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u68	Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u69	I ask you to pass the word to Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u70	Vladimir Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear Elbros Farmanovich, a law on an extremely topical subject, and we understand very well that it is necessary to accept it, in my opinion. The thing is, Ukraine is a great transit state, but it's not using its transit potential enough. I'd like to take this opportunity that you, as Secretary of State of the Ministry of Transport, might give a brief analysis: why, exactly, what are the main reasons that Ukraine does not use its transit potential? And to what extent will this bill contribute to the realization of this potential? And perhaps what other steps do we need to take to make the most of our potential? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u72	Thank you for asking. Of course, we have not yet exhausted all our capacity to implement transit cargo transport through Ukraine. But there are several objective and subjective reasons. First of all, for objective reasons it can be said that there are differences today in the tariffs for transit goods through Ukraine that originate in Russia and are linked to differences in tariffs. For the preference of their cargo owners who ship international cargo to foreign trade, the Russians adopt the internal transport tariff twice as low as the tariff that goes through Ukraine through transit through Ukraine. And in this question, we can count on total transit, 80 percent of transit through Ukraine belongs to Russia, or three countries that transfer cargo through Russia. So that's an objective reason, and we're working on it to bring the position closer together and solve it. And already two meetings of the Russian interlocutors have identified the solution to this problem as soon as possible. The second part of the problem involves simplifying transit cargo crossings across Ukraine’s borders both at the entrance and at the exit. And in this regard, we are taking a number of steps, including these measures that we have proposed to change to Article 6, which are related to these planned steps to simplify the procedure for crossing the border. And the third part of the problem, it's about tariff policy. We need to define a more flexible tariff policy on modes of transport in order to be attractive to the owners and interested in transporting transit cargo through Ukraine. In this part of April 1, Mintrans was developed and a new tariff precursor was introduced, including transit cargo through Ukraine by both rail and maritime transport. That's why we think that these systemic approaches and measures make us 22 percent compared to last year, and that's a significant increase, we increase the transit of goods through Ukraine, and we hope that in the package of measures, including the improvement of the legislative base, it will give a more serious impetus to the inclusion of transit goods for transit through Ukraine in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u73	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u74	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear reporter, please tell me how you propose to actually amend the Customs Code by not making such changes, but simply amending the Goods Transit Act. After all, the Customs Code is a more serious document adopted later, and a customs declaration must therefore be drawn up when moving goods through transit territory. Why does Mintrans today process this: Is it a weak legal service in Mintrans? Why is this neglect of the Customs Code, I want to understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u75	Thank you for asking. That's a very interesting question. But I want to answer that. First, the bill was drafted by the Ministry of Transport, including the legal services, but it agreed with all the public authorities, including the customs authorities. And we got an agreement. That's the first part of my answer. The second part is that, yes, indeed, the Customs Code requires the declaration of goods at the expense of the customs declaration. But all the graphs of the customs declaration that are defined by legislation are in these consignment notes that accompany the cargo, and there they are defined, all the graphs. And so we're not violating the Customs Code, we're just amending the law, the law, the law, the law on transit, we're determining that instead of a customs declaration, a consignment note will be used, which in its own sense will have all the necessary information, as well as the customs declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u76	Thank you, Your Honor. All those who signed up spoke. Time's up. [[Well, that's the way to sign up, but I don't mind.]] Well, please, Red.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u77	Dear Elbros Farmanovitch, a great request. We noticed this on the profile committee, where I'm the secretary. And we filed it in writing. I don't know why it's not counted. Why are we not translating this function into road and river international transport? And that's the only thing that applies to rail and aviation. Do you know what the difficulties, and how much does Ukraine lose because of this declaration of transit on river and road transport, which is competitive? Our request, this is a committee request, to make this amendment, except for rail and aviation, to transfer it to a river and a car. And the author knows that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u78	Of course, in my previous reply, I told myself that we need to improve in many ways both the legislative base and technology. And we're working on it. If there are such suggestions, we very much agree with these suggestions that improve our work. Let's work together in the future and do it too. No, it still needs a separate bill. Because both by air and by rail it goes as a separate bill. That's why the car needs separate bills, and we'll give it to you. This goes on and on and on and on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u79	Please sit down for a while. From the committee, please. Lovín Anatoly Ivanovich. Vassil Ivanovich will be Glady? Please. Vasil Ivanovich, why not in one law? Why do we do that in two laws? Please, I mean, why are we looking at two projects? One could make these changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u80	. Dear head, distinguished national MPs! The need to adopt this bill is the result of Ukraine's accession to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail. It is also confirmed by Ukraine's participation in the development of the UN Convention on the International Customs Transit Procedure for the Transport of Goods by Rail. For the purpose of transit transport through Ukraine, it is proposed that an additional copy of the traffic information of the CIS transport document or overheads be introduced in transit transport by rail. This order of use of an additional copy of road information instead of a trucking declaration is introduced in Estonia, Latvia. Belarus, Russia In moving transit cargo between these countries, invoices are not necessarily required. Freight costs are recorded in railway consignment notes. As a document of control over the delivery of goods, two copies of road data are used. The same is true of aviation. It's the only place where a cargo airbag is called an airwave. When the planes arrive at the airport, they are found twice and the documents are redesigned. The same is true of rail freight at the border. I can just give you an example. The consignment note, these are the ones that are cymovsky, they're clearly right here. And look at how many consignment notes it takes to get through the CIS and spend time on it. Reduction in the location of goods on the railway. At the railway crossings, it's going down to three hours. And the same thing I want to answer here was the question that "the observation of Jaroslav the Wise," they just didn't see it through. That's not going to cross the law with the customs new code. There's a point to that. But we agreed. How'd you get your attention? They really did not read and agree that this would not interfere with customs legislation. Well, I think it's also the right proposal for Redberry axis, and I think that on second reading you can look at it with a professional committee to see with a professional committee you can still consult, and you can make a decision about transiting rail, aviation, probably and road transport right away. Another reading, if it does not mention it, is that we will, in principle, consider the matter on the Committee. The proposal has been received, will be considered on the Committee and may be considered on second reading. Please. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u81	Do you have any questions for our colleague, Your Honor? You don't? Thank you. Have a seat, Vasil Ivanovich. Let's move on to the discussion. Yes, please, on board. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, of course, the faction of our Ukraine, please. And prepare for Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u82	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council! We now have two drafts, the level of which is completely different. One of them is bill 3166 that is harmful to the national economy and to Ukraine. Bill 3166-1 is something you can adopt. Hence, these questions were to be divorcised in the same way. And I'm surprised I didn't tell you about that from the Committee today. Why? The general idea is normal in Bill 3166, but it is envisaged to exclude the last sentence of Article 6(1) of the Goods Transit Act, which provided for the declaration of transit cargo, in accordance with customs legislation, to the customs authorities. Thus, the deletion of this sentence from the Ukrainian goods transit law would result in the abolition of the legislative requirement for the formulation of a truck-mite declaration for transit goods and other items moving across Ukraine by air, by road and by water. In addition to the railway, which has been brought to our attention today. At the same time, according to the information provided in the draft documents, the bill is intended to repeal the requirement for the formulation of an anti-mitigation declaration by air only. Therefore, there is a suggestion to write this down: the operation of the rules should not be distributed in cases of transit of cargo by air within one point of entry through the State border of Ukraine. And to write down, the wording changes because, as will be written today, I say that the code that enters, the new Customs Code in effect since 1 January 2004, is thus trying to bypass. And they don't agree with him. With regard to the 3166 Bill with a single badge, this bill will provide an opportunity to produce a set of positive results and can generally be accepted. There are only technical notes to be taken into account. As far as cargo is concerned, I would like to draw attention to today's duty of Minister of Transport Abdullayev to the fact that the reduction of payments in the processing of the individual transit goods that are being delivered today is a national offense, a crime. I'm drawing attention to a document you signed on 16 July 2003 entitled "Reductions in the processing of individual transit goods at the Odessa Trade Port" where you provide Internationalport Services."the private company, discounts 75 cents from the $50. A year, a month and a half at the time of a million tons a month, these discounts are a million dollars for the budget, five million dollars. Ask the minister of education if he needs the five million you're throwing away? Why is this being done? I'm drawing the attention of the Transport Committee, which we have, to the nonsense that is being done today at the Ministry of Transport with the creation of Ukrecport or Ukremorport, as it is called, under the guidance of some managers. And we have to stop robbing the state. 12-15 million a year on one order only, Mr. Abdullayev, dollars. That's 60 million dollars. Mr. President of the Supreme Council, I'm drawing your attention to what this is? It's a robbery. And I'm asking them to pay attention. And so will the Attorney General as soon as he returns from Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u83	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, I propose that in the first reading, Bill 3166-1 should be adopted, and in the process of preparing the bill for second reading, that it should be distributed to road and river transport other than rail and air transport. Place all modes of transport. The origin of the bill is the introduction of a customs transit procedure. As is evident from the experience of other countries, this is a positive result. We've been talking about the need to simplify the border crossing procedure for a long time. And that's exactly what a concrete step is in solving this problem. That is why he deserves support. Of course, the adoption of this bill will not solve all problems. But what impresses me is that the Ministry sees the whole population of those directions that need to move in order to solve the problem, and our main task in this regard is to turn Ukraine into a major transit state and use Ukraine's transit potential as effectively as possible. And to do that, we need to address transit, tariff issues, customs policy, tariff policies, and, of course, simplification of the cross-section procedure. At least this bill, one aspect of this cluster of problems solves. So I'm willing to take it again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Gladsky's replica, please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u86	First of all, the Transport Committee was affected by the People's Deputy Carmazin. I think there are professional people working there, people's deputies. And from his mouth it was unpleasant to hear. And it's just that there's been a lot of populism in this room as well. He's reading the last line, and he's speaking. I therefore believe that this bill should be supported. Not to engage in populist methods. The question was not about the seaports that he raised and began to count. I think, comrades, the people's deputies, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u87	Yeah, from the Department of Transportation, do you have anything to say? Please, Elbrus Farmanovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u88	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Thank you, Your Honor, for your understanding and support. There's nothing to add, but I think that in the future, both in the river and in the car transport, there's definitely a second reading to be considered and justified in order to determine the possibility that these norms could be included in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, the draft laws amending the Ukrainian Goods Transit Act have been completed. These are documents number 3166, 3166-1. The decision will be made on the day of the vote, taking into account the discussion. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u90	Sorry, sorry, sorry. Draft Act on a State-wide programme to adapt Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation. The following Rules of Procedure are proposed: for a report of up to 10 minutes, for answers to questions of up to 5 minutes, for a co-report of 5 minutes, for a co-report of 5 minutes, for an answer to questions and for 15 minutes to discuss. No objections? Sergey Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u91	Thank you. I would ask, considering that Mr. Minister has only just returned from the Cabinet of Ministers meeting, where an extremely important issue has been addressed before he begins to talk about the draft law to inform members of the Ukrainian Parliament of the decision that was taken at the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u92	Thank you. Please inform Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich within the time allocated for the report on the bill, if possible, about the dry balance of the discussion that took place at the Cabinet of Ministers on the single economic space. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u93	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In general, the government’s decision must be represented by the government’s head. I can only say that, as a unanimous decision taken by members of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Economic Integration, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine continue to work on the draft agreement and concepts in order to formulate the article warnings that are in Ukraine on this text, and return a week later to this question. If so, the leftover may be so.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u94	Thank you. Then let's go to the draft Law on the Universal Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is on the draft Law on the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to the Legislation of the European Union, which is prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the implementation of Ukrainian law, approved by the Concept for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to the Legislation of the European Union. The Public Programme project is prepared exactly in accordance with defined concepts, and it has the nature of a framework document that defines the purpose, the basic terms and the essential mechanism for adapting legislation, the financial, human and informational principles for the implementation of the programme. The project provides that specific measures to adapt legislation will be determined by the annual implementation plans. This approach is based on the fact that both Ukrainian legislation and European Union legislation are evolving dynamically, and planning concrete measures to adapt Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation in the medium and long term does not seem very convincing. We have already prepared such a project in the area of financial services, banking, money laundering, and insurance. This is a problem of work that, in accordance with the agreements made in Copenhagen last year and in March of this year in Brussels, is carried out on a bilateral basis in agreement with the authorised representatives of the European Commission and the Government of Ukraine. And based on the positive experience of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe in adapting their national legislation to European Union norms and standards, the project will provide for a concentration of functions from the scientific, analytical, methodological and informational institutions of the joint state institution, such as the European Law Centre, which is established by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. The lists of acts of European Union and Ukrainian legislation in the parity spheres are 421 pages of acts and their official props, for acts of the European Union - also translated in Ukrainian, are presented in an information appendix to this project. And, of course, he was the subject of a profile committee. And I hope he will, too, find approval in the session room. On June 12, this year, the draft law on the state-wide programme of Ukrainian legislative grants to European Union legislation was considered by the European Union's professional committee on matters of Euro-integration and found positive approval with certain additions, which are also in line with the position that was developed by the mandated body, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I hope that the consideration of the substance of this approach, which allows for an annual agreed approach between the authorised representatives of the European Commission and the authorised Government of Ukraine to approve, in an article-by-article manner, a roll-call list of acts, their description and the necessary adaptation limits will allow us to have a positive outcome on the road which is ultimately aimed at harmonising Ukraine's legislation with the legislation of the European Union. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the Minister of Justice? Please register, for five minutes, on the sign of the name of the national deputies who have signed up. Basil Nadrag. The list is already displayed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u97	Dear Alexander Vladimirovic, I would like to return to what colleague Sergei Vladimirovic asked the question, and in this case I would like to hear your opinion as a specialist today as to how much of the problem of creating a single economic space between Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan is strategic, let us say, not contrary to the document and the policy set out in this programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u98	In general, of course, this is not exactly the text of the law that is proposed. But I can tell you that contradictions may be absent if there is an understanding, desire and implementation of the course for harmonising the legislation of our neighbours to European Union legislation as well as in Ukraine. There is such an understanding, which is a line of state policy and is defined by the relevant letters, decrees by the President of Ukraine, which is eventually approved by an adaptation programme in this room to the European Union, i.e., Ukraine has determined its direction to harmonise legislation. And if we have understanding and other actors in this process want to harmonize their legislation with European Union legislation, then there will be no contradiction. And if that's the other way, well, that's not the way it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u99	Eugene Gorenik. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u100	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I will vote in favour of this bill and wish it to pass as soon as possible. But comment, please, on how much it corresponds to those documents that are scheduled to be signed in Yalta. We're adopting the Act on Adaptation to European Legislation, and at the same time, we want to sign an agreement on a single customs and perhaps even currency space. And if we assume on Thursday that we're going to adopt the bill that you're proposing, wouldn't that be a reason not to sign the agreement that is proposed for consideration in Yalta?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u101	The question of what agreement on behalf of Ukraine to sign this is a constitutional right for the Head of State, for authorized persons. And as for harmonization, I was just answering that question. We have in the Constitution of Ukraine the definition of customs and tariff policy, currency is solely the prerogative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And no one else can handle these issues. So when it comes to regulating it, it gets in conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. As long as we have the Basic Law, its positions must be adhered to by all government authorities and officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u102	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u103	Thank you, Your Honor. Of course, I support both the comments and the warnings of my colleagues. I think the Supreme Council will support this bill because eventually Ukraine has to determine which vector to follow, because this multi vectority is difficult for Ukraine. But the specific question is here. You have foreseen funding from the State Budget in the bill, but there are no funding available to adapt our legislation to Europe. First of all, these volumes have to be predicted and more clearly, I think we should write about the arts and these, because the general phrases are as always not going to lead to anything. Your thoughts on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u104	The issue of budgeting for this process has been addressed in accordance with the Constitution through draft State Budget laws that are adopted annually. No other law that would settle this issue for a long time or for a shorter time can be, in this case, higher than the rules that are adopted in this room in the adoption of the State Budget Act for every current year. Therefore, the adoption of this law should be very careful to ensure that this position is fixed and that, let us say, it provides for the tasks facing Ukraine and in line with the commitments made in this regard. So I hope it's for maintenance. support and understanding in considering the draft budget, which should be duly taken into account in this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u105	John Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u106	John Boki, the Socialist faction. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! We're talking today about adapting our legislation to European legislation. And that's right. We have to adapt because it's an adaptation to democracy. But what this adaptation will do is if the new minister of internal affairs of the Bilokon openly calls for the dismantling of democracy in Ukraine. He openly calls for the inclusion of force structures, an internal political fight against opposition, and calls out, "Whoever is not with us is against us." I understand that this is a miracle they found, and you didn't put it on the minister, but that's what a government member says. How this relates to our course in political Europe. I'm sorry, but you understand perfectly that far beyond my authority and I have no moral right to judge any member of the government. And besides, the question that I am presenting on the rostrum today has nothing to do with our question that you have just formulated.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u107	Sergey Shevchuk, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u108	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, NDP faction. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I'd like to ask you the following. As we know, the Ukrainian Parliament has adopted the Government's Action Programme by a large majority. And we wanted a coalition government of success at work for at least one year, realizing that it would be prolonged. But there is no indication in the Government's Action Programme that the creation of a single economic space and of the results that may arise, negative results for our state, after it has been signed, at least in terms of the view that this contradicts, as a minimum, a few articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. Please tell me, if the Prime Minister and the minister responsible for this issue are to sign this document before the President does, will it mean that the government should prepare a new Action Programme, submit it to Parliament for approval and form a new government majority?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u109	I started my own short talk. I can say that to this day all the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers that were, they were exactly in line with the Government's Action Programme that found support in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u110	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please sit down, time is up. I invite the head of the European Integration Committee Boris Tarasyuk to report. Boris Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u111	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Last November, you and I approved the concept of a state-wide programme to adapt Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation. The draft concept was introduced by the President and has been extensively worked out by the Committee on European Integration. Today, we have a project prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers for a state-wide program. The European Integration Committee discussed this project at its meeting on June 12th and decided to ask the Supreme Council to support it in its first reading. This decision is in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. And so far, we've got five committees on supporting the bill in the first reading. I'm going to point out that the state-wide programme project still needs substantial work. This is especially true of chapter 8, where it is necessary to write more clearly and clearly the adaptation mechanism. In addition, the program is left out of the question of prioritizing technical assistance software resources to support the adaptation process, which is one of the requirements of a state-wide programme. There are some comments on other sections of the project. But our committee has made an effort to finalize the document and is obliged to take into account all the constructive suggestions that will be sent to the second reading. I'm asking you to support this first-reading project on behalf of the committee. On the other hand, I would like to say that the Cabinet of Ministers had just concluded and a draft agreement on the signing of an agreement on a single economic space between the four countries had been considered. And I would like to point out that the intention to sign this agreement is completely contrary to the course for European integration that the Supreme Council has supported. These efforts also conflict with the Adaptation Conception Act. And they will certainly run counter to the very state-wide agenda of adapting our legislation to European Union legislation. Because the single economic space agreement specifically states that the parties will adapt and harmonize their legislation. So we're going to be put with you before the choice: do we adapt our legislation and harmonize with the European Union or with the so-called only economic space? We can’t help but worry about all of this. And if the government finally approves this project and the President signs it, it will be nothing more than a betrayal of Ukraine's national interests, a crime against the Ukrainian people and Ukrainian history. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the committee head? Please. Please sign in. Put the name of the people’s deputies on the sign. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u113	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Boris Ivanovich, I am in the process of developing what you were saying at the end of your speech. I'm looking at a project in Russian here called the "Agreement to form a single economic space." And it's quite clear in article 2 that the harmonization of the laws of the parties to the extent that it is necessary for a single economic space to function -- that is, such a general phrase. But I'm taking the first article, and it turns out that the parties understand economic space, under a single economic space, a single tax, monetary, financial, external trade-agreed policy and so on. At the same time, according to article 51 of the UCP Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, it is said that this is the same thing that Ukraine should do in the direction of the European Union and even the obligation is to take steps to ensure that its legislation is brought into conformity with the legislation of society. I have this question: there is actually Russian legislation in the field of economics and there is legislation in the European Union. What are they really like? Is that the same thing? Are these fundamentally different things? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u114	Well, if you give a brief answer to your questions, these two laws are totally different because they belong to different legal systems. In fact, if the Single Economic Space Agreement refers to the view of free trade, they are actually trying to mislead the Ukrainian public and everyone who cares about the issues of Ukrainian sovereignty, because it's actually not about the free trade zone, it's about the customs union, it's about the highest degree of integration. In my opinion, it is too much to say that Ukraine cannot harmonize its legislation with the European Union's legislation of commitment it made back in 1994, signing a partnership and cooperation agreement, while at the same time harmonising its legislation with the legislation of the Russian Federation. We have different economic structures. Our economies cannot have the same regulatory legislative mechanisms. So these two systems of legislation clearly conflict.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u115	Mikola Karnauh. Rudzikowski, please, instead of Karnauha, is a faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u116	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Boris Ivanovich, please tell me if the signing of the four agreements is not a customs union, not even a customs union, because it is a more common market, except for the common currency, because its free movement of goods, services, labour, investment will still be implemented. Is it relevant today to adopt this law, as you report, whether it is already necessary to focus on the preparation of legislation on integration with Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, perhaps Afghanistan for Ukraine, which has a European choice?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u117	I think someone has to show more common sense in our country, and I hope that it will be the Supreme Council, supporting a nationwide programme to adapt our legislation to European Union legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u118	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear reporter, well, you know, there's a question here at all. The Supreme Council may also support this bill, just as it may in time support the bill on Ukraine's entry into Europe, rather than in Asia. So we need to figure out who we're going with or where we're going, either to Europe or to Azop. I think there's a special right here on your committee, which you're also in charge of the Ministry, which is represented here by this bill. That's why, I think, Ukraine's legislative base does not foresee anything other than the failure to break the Constitution of Ukraine. And that's why I don't think we should even discuss this union of four, because the union of four is a violation, as a minimum, of the three articles of the Constitution. And I'd like to hear your opinion on how important is Ukraine's integration into Azop and how much is it to Europe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u120	Well, that's a conceptual question. I think that the Supreme Council, by adopting its decision of 28 November following parliamentary hearings on the relationship between Ukraine and the European Union, has clearly expressed its position in favour of European integration rather than of Eurasian integration. I also want to say that the Committee on European Integration is performing its function. Yesterday a meeting took place, and the committee unanimously approved the signing of the so - called only economic space agreement. We have noted our breach of our commitments under the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, 2 articles are being violated: 4th and 51st of this agreement. And the violation of four articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u121	Thank you, Boris Ivanovich. Time's up. Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion, dear fellows. We agreed for 15 minutes. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who signed up for the discussion. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Puzakov. There's Yuri Anatolyovich. There can be no such thing. Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u122	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Mr. Head, colleagues, members of the government and distinguished listeners! The draft law on the state-wide programme for adapting Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation of 4 June 2003, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers for first reading, certainly raises very important questions and not only those put forward in the title of the project. We all remember that it is on the Supreme Council that there is an obligation to enact laws. Other entities are given only the right of legislative initiative. So speaking on this and on this project, I want to point out the important role that we have in comparison. President Kuchma played a parliamentary role in drafting a legal framework to bring him closer to the European one. This project has a format, not a law, but rather a concept, a program. But we've already adopted this concept on November 21, 2002. And that's the document that had to contain terms that made up the content of section 2, Definition of terms. Section 3 takes the form of a simple analytical note, which simply lists the legal and regulatory acts adopted by the President of Ukraine and has been adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Chapter 4 simply refers to the terms of adaptation and does not indicate the specific tasks of each stage. So this can also be made into a pre-adopted law. Chapters 5 and 6 are a simple list of standard technical procedures that are not unique, just necessary to regulate this issue, because without them it is impossible to work on any other project. Chapter 7 is not worth the amount of paper that has been spent on printing it, and it's going to be a paragraph in the existing legal instruments. What was the purpose of this project? In order to tell Parliament, to give Parliament the role of expert on the activities of Minsk, as outlined in Chapter 7, and to put all the work already envisaged in future budgetary and non-budgetary funding, including from the EU institution, at some European and comparative centre, which according to lobbying on the side of Minsk, is somewhere above. I propose that, honourable national MPs, this project be rejected. And by the way, we have a very negative conclusion on this project and science and science. To reject as one whose content does not correspond to its name and in fact obscures the normative framework of acts adopted by the Supreme Council. Instead, it is necessary to amend the decision on the structure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus and to reorganize certain units of the Apparatus, the Legal Service of Parliament, by putting questions on the organization and coordination of the legislative work. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to draw your personal attention to the fact that most of the acts that we now place in the hands of the President have been adopted at a time when you were the head of the administration at the time. And today, when you come to us, his leadership in Parliament should change the attitude towards the adoption of laws and mention that it is our responsibility, not that of the President of Ukraine. And when we write in the law that we're tasked with writing and accepting something to the President, the Cabinet, the Ministry or some center, we're not just giving up our powers, but we're also admitting that we're not capable of it. Therefore, Vladimir Mikhailovich, let us remember that we are the only legislative body in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u123	And then you heard, and you took over, and now you see a minute. Interesting talk, yeah. Well, that's an interesting performance. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction, prepare Grachev instead of Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u124	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. Aware of the material relating to the draft Ukrainian law, the idea arises reluctantly — and whether the law is needed at all. It is almost hopeless to join the European Union. That's why. First, in the 21st century, Ukraine entered a ruined economy, a science, technology and food security that grew in external debt dependence. The intellectual and professional degradation of Ukrainian society has reached alarming levels. The country has experienced world progress, and life expectancy has decreased by 10 years. By international standards, Ukraine has been classified as dying. Who is it that needs us in the European Union? Secondly, accession to the European Union is almost impractical. This is not a panacea of the country's withdrawal from the deepest crisis and stalemate, which has been criminally introduced by Ukraine by the current regime of government in 12 years of so-called reforms, which has destroyed the socialist economy, which is surprising to the world at a high rate of growth. To enter a capitalist world, one must clearly imagine what they were created for. The answer to this question was frankly given by clever Soros, this philanthropist of science in CIS countries, to whom Ukraine had given a wide range of destructive activities, said: “My role in Ukraine is interventionist”. Do our reformers know about this? I'm sure they know, but they act like rabbits before they drown. Meanwhile, the mood of the countries that have been or are preparing to join the EU is beginning to change. For example, Czech psychologist Irji Pehe stated that “the whole of Central Europe between the hammer and the anvil”, and whatever we do, we will either betray France and Germany, or the United States of America. It is also known that complex production in Ukrainian exports to the EU will be only 6 or 8 per cent with a trend towards further decline. We should also not forget that the energy intensity of Ukrainian products is 6 times higher than the EU average. How are we going to compete in the markets of the European Union? At the same time, Ukraine, in its renegade choice of the European route, refuses to join the European-Asian economic community, which would open wide markets for Ukraine to sell its products. An illustration. Kyrgyzstan, participating in this community, increased its turnover from Russia by 43 per cent last year. Ukraine lost 40 per cent of trade with Russia without taking part. This is the result of our rusephobia and short-sighted foreign policy. It is time for us to wake up, to be cured of Russophobia by ridding ourselves of the Russophobics around the President, in the Government and in the Supreme Council. And then Ukraine will begin to emerge from the abyss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u125	Oleg Grachev, Communist faction, prepare. Yes, there is no Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u126	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I think that, unlike the Minister of Justice, Mr. Boris Ivanovich Tarasjuk's statement, the emphasis on this issue is not quite correct. Of course, the first-reading programme for the adaptation of Ukrainian legislation can be considered. But I would like to remind you that in addition to this Programme, under a bilateral treaty with the Russian Federation, we have certain obligations to harmonise and synchronize the laws of the two countries. And in your time, as Foreign Minister, Boris Ivanovic, you proclaimed the multiversity of Ukrainian foreign policy along with the President of Ukraine. In line with this concept, there is no need to counter the movement towards the European Union and integration processes towards the Russian Federation and the CIS countries. There are no antagonistic contradictions here. That's the main thing. Yesterday, at a meeting of the committee led by Boris Ivanovich, the First Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs for European Integration, Alexander Chali, said that, as our entry or return to the signing of the Treaty establishing the European Union, the accession of the European Union was equally contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. And it's perfectly natural. In order to fully, let us say, accept the conditions that exist in one agreement and in another, certain paragraphs of the Constitution will have to be amended. I would therefore like to conclude my statement by stressing that there is no way to counter the integration processes that are directed towards the European Union and towards the CIS and, in particular, the Russian Federation and the creation of a single economic space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u127	Feldman. None. Mikola Tomenko. Get ready for Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, I think, are strategic papers, especially in such a complex and sensitive area as foreign policy, very important to us. Today, we seem to have exhausted this resource of critical balancing between several directions. What's more, it's not just balancing, it's a situation where I'm already criticizing this document in a constructive way when we have dozens of institutions dealing with this problem. Today, Ukrainian legislation has led to various standards and European legislation, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Economics and European Integration, the Ministry of Justice. Moreover, it became clear when I spoke to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, that we have an adaptation of the legislation of the President's Administration. Moreover, sometimes such visits from various authorities show that we do not have a system or an understanding of how this is done. For example, there was a delegation from the President's Administration recently and it came in, and on all channels it said that there was no legislation in the Supreme Council in the field of media to match the European level. I contacted colleagues from the Council of Europe, and they say that this is a complete lie, never one of the European parliamentarians, from the Council of Ministers' apparatus has ever expressed itself in such a way that we do not have civilized normal media legislation. The other thing is that we don't have this legislation cynically implemented and violated at every turn. And for that, the Council of Europe is critical of us. And it's perfectly logical to criticize. And I've drawn this example because today, if we don't see in the strategic paper who's doing this, it's going to be colossal again, there's going to be problems again, all the more you know, it's not a secret that there's going to be serious funding for adaptation. And one bill is being worked on by officials from four or five ministries and they report on how quickly they adapted. When it comes to the Supreme Council, it turns out that different concepts, different understandings of this process of adaptation. You know, on September 29, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is listening to the Ukrainian question right in the part of the monitoring, where legislation is a key moment and a key element. Therefore, previous recommendations are ready. And I think that if we define the logic and approach of how this is done in such a strategic document, it will also take away a lot of questions that arise in European structures to us. And to my profound conviction, such strategic documents are still vital for our high - ranking workers to understand in principle the country we live in. If such a document were accepted, I think Leonid Kuchma would never write a book called Ukraine - Not Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u129	Yes, Mikola Rudzkowski, I announced. Then Boris Tarasyuk's lineup.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, the issue we are currently discussing is very relevant. We need not delay in adopting our national programme to adapt Ukraine's legislation to the European Union's legislation. And why is that? Because it provides for the whole adaptation of Ukrainian legislation. If it had been adopted, negotiations on the creation of a single economic space would have taken place on entirely different legislative bases. Neither the President nor the government could move away from the legislative base that would be in operation today. I would ask your attention to the question that two weeks in a row, the government's first question at a government meeting is the creation of a single economic space. And the government's meeting is also about whether we're adapting to Europe or creating a single economic space. I emphasize that creating a single economic space, as it's written in amorphous form, is not a free trade zone, it's not even a customs union. This is the creation of a common market, the same as the European market, except for a single currency, because there is a movement of goods, investment, labor and so on, except for one currency. The second part of the agreement on the creation of the EP is the creation of a national body whose mandate will be strengthened. That is, by signing the sub-legal acts under the already signed agreement at the level of governments, you can delegate authority to even the appointment of a guardian or a janitor of the Cabinet of Ministers. We're going to go so far. Another issue is that the EP plans to make a decision of the Council. The Council is, it will make decisions by a weighted vote depending on the economic potential. Russia, with GDP of $427 billion, will have 82.6 per cent of the vote, Ukraine 9.43 per 48 billion of GDP, Kazakhstan - 5.6, Belarus - 2.7. We're not going to be like in Europe, where when we create a union of European states, none of the countries had more than 20 percent, we're going to give the economy of Ukraine up to our good neighbour. I love the Russians, but I love my Ukrainian people more. And I hope that this is what every MP will do by voting after the discussion. That's the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u131	Thank you. Boris Ivanovich, your line, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u132	Thank you. In view of the fact that my name was mentioned in Oleg Alexiyovich Grachev’s speech, I would like to say that the two vectors were not opposed. I want to say that both the course of executive power and the decisions of the Supreme Council have a quintension of integration into the European Union and partnership, friendship with Russia and other new independent countries. Therefore, it cannot be a matter of contrasting one course to another. We must aim, consistently, to implement the course for European integration, the course for membership in the European Union and NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u133	Yes, dear colleagues, the time for discussion is up. From the Assadchev Valérie procedure. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u134	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think this issue has been discussed today -- it's getting a little heated. And I just want to say from the procedure. The point is, in 2000, I was in the Polish Seismo just when they were dealing with these issues, adapting legislation. And in the Poles, it was the question that was taken over by Parliament, that it was coordinating all the activity. Moreover, the deputies worked virtually continuously. So they, of course, voted in 16 legislative acts that have already been drafted, the next one is set at 20 p.m., and they vote in the evening, and so on, and so on and so forth. I think we need to be here too if we're going to accept this programme, in my opinion, to take the lead coordination to parliament. And it seems to me that in the order of the day Parliament there should be an appropriate chapter of those legislative acts that are prepared to vote them, to make appropriate changes and to bring them into line with European legislation. That's why I'm addressing you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, because in the decree there, I read, there was only a government commission. In my view, it is precisely all coordination and the main burden that Parliament must bear. And he must make appropriate arrangements to do so. And I would ask that we don't forget that question either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u135	Thank you. I'd like to take that into account, it's procedural, it's principled, in my opinion, character. Please, Kirilenko from the procedure. It's a dragoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u136	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! I think the Ukrainian authorities sometimes play the difference. Today we are looking at a programme to adapt legislation to the European Union in Parliament. Our government, by the way, which is chosen by the parliamentary majority, is not chosen, but, as it were, by its participation, is looking at very different documents: the integration of Ukraine into the only economic space of Russia-Kazakhstan-Belarus. I think we should look at these processes together in some way. And to determine which direction for Ukraine is the key. If we agreed on Friday that there would be information from the Cabinet of Ministers about the document contract and the concept of E., it should be. As far as we know, for now, she's not planning on being. And it has to be later. Will we have all the information to that other integration that may be independent of Parliament's decisions on European integration by the two Presidents on September 18th without any evaluation, participation or anything else? I'm worried about that as a national MP. And I would also like to hear the answers to these questions in our room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u137	Thank you. Sergey Doroguntsov, Communist faction. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u138	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! And what worries me is that there's a substitution of one question -- European integration -- on another issue -- about Ukraine's participation in the common economic space. I want to tell you that if it were the only space with the United States instead of Russia, South Africa, and you added whoever you wanted, Cameroon, there would be no questions. And that's because it's about who we've been living with for 300 years and working together, we have a common economy, and in their mind, it causes, you know, a reaction like that in the Spanish field, red. And the second. Here someone has pointed out that the problem is not that we have worse legislation than we do in the European Union. In the area of health, in the field of education, we have better legislation than in the European Union. The point is that our best legislation is not being implemented, and someone said here, well, it's just being ignored. That's the problem with our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, we're about to have a discussion. We have a lot of questions. I beg of you, Your Honor, I now, let me make up your positions, your thoughts. We are a project, a review of the draft Law on the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union Legislation, and we will consider it complete. Decisions will be made taking into account the discussion on the day of the vote. With regard to the only economic space, I would like to remind you, my distinguished colleagues, that on May 22, the Supreme Council accepted the application. Where she expressed her attitude with appropriate warnings. This is the first moment. As for Friday. Information that we should listen to and consider in the session room about a single economic space. The point is that there will be no major reporter for the meeting in Mexico. Dear colleagues, ask me when he'll be here, but I'm not in charge of the government. So there was an agreement when we met with faction leaders that we would consider this issue for the next week, and on Monday we would determine when, on Tuesday, or on Wednesday, and in what format we would consider, and within what limits. Otherwise, there will be no substantive discussion and information from the government. As for the materials that we need to study with you to get acquainted with, these materials will be available to the government by the end of the plenary week. Dear colleagues! Let's keep working. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the special regime for investment and innovation in technology parks is being reviewed. Now we're going to look at the simplified procedure. We have neither much left nor a half a dozen more bills to consider before. 40 minutes. I invite you to the report of the Minister of Education and Science of Kremen Vasil Grigorovitch. And the co-reporter will be Igor Raphaelovich Yukhnovsky. Please very briefly, Vasil Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I'll brief you. The draft law will provide an opportunity to resolve the issue of the organisational foundations of technology parks, to remove the ambiguities in the definition of rules governing the functioning of technology parks, their participants, their children and joint ventures that are formed by the technology park. The other one. It will eliminate the disagreements between Ukraine’s special regime for investment and innovation in technology parks and other laws, such as those relating to joint activities contracts, penalties for defaulting on projects, and so on. Third. It will allow more revenue to be made available to the State budget in carrying out innovative, investment projects of technology. parks. Next. It will allow more control over investment and innovation projects in technology parks. And the last thing I'd like to say is that it will allow for the coordination of the actions of the central executives of all levels of innovation in technology parks. The project was considered by the Committee on Science and Education. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u141	Thank you, Vasil Grigorovich. Have a seat, please. Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky. Committee position. Please, your word for the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u142	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honourable deputies, literally two minutes. The bill deals with the inadequacy of the meaning of the concept of "cooperation agreement" in the Law on the Functioning of Technology Parks and the Civil Code. It was the concept of joint activity in the first law that provided for a contract for the organization of a technology park that was introduced into the new draft law. The technology park has been identified. The committee approves the government's proposals. However, there are legislative requirements for the content of contracts for the operation of a technology park. There must be a legal entity of a technology park that provides the operation of a technology park and the basic functions of a technology park’s governing body. We received a number of comments from the Security Service and the State Tax Administration. So we ask you to adopt the draft law as a basis, that is, in the first reading. For the second reading, we will consider all the suggestions accordingly. Finally, I would like to state that the Committee on Science and Education and the Interim Future Commission will contribute to the creation of new technology parks on the principles that will satisfy the development of innovation processes and those that satisfy the requirements of the State Tax Administration and the Ministry of Finance. In particular, we support the initiative of Kharkiv State Administration to create local technology parks based on universities. Local technology parks can also absorb small businesses, which are now mainly involved in shadowy activities. We ask you to adopt this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u143	Thank you, Igor Raphaelovich. Have a seat, please. Sit down, Igor Raphaelovich, sit down. I understand, but it's a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, please sit down. But we have to work hard to get a closer look at the documents. Yeah, we need two pros, two opposites. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who signed up for the performance. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin None. Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov From the place, if you please. Turn on Sergei Doroguntsov's microphone. How convenient for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u144	You see how they report in two minutes, and they'll report in one and a half minutes. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I want to say that for your consideration there is a really important bill -- changes to the law on the activities of technology parks as the centers of the science and technology process, as the means of spreading scientific results into our production. And from this point of view, we should probably vote in favour of this bill. And on the other hand, what I'm saying is, whatever we're going to do, it's a golden law! There is no such law in Europe. And all the same, they find some kind of channel, some kind of bypassing way to use all our laws in their own interests, in their own beneficial interests! Please tell me why we should bring milk to Ukraine. Or why would he bring a sausage? What is an innovative product? An Innovation Product? No, they're driving. And how do I do that, I just can't imagine! How can this disorder be stopped?Oh, my God! When we create a technology park, we hope that it will, well, on conscience, do this, but when it comes to money, about money, about 300 percent, capital is willing to put its head in the loop, not that it's already going to any crime! So there are no obstacles, no contradictions. Let's think of something like this! This refers not only to the law but to the legislation that we are adopting here. It's about a replica of Igor Rafailovich's local technology parks. I don't know how to create another word from the word park, well, how about we turn Ukraine into a parking lot? We have 300 higher education institutions, everyone will have a technology park, and the whole of Ukraine will be covered with technology parks, and there are benefits associated with these innovation projects. So think about it, Igor Rafailovich, you can't, but we're funding not a technology park, and we're releasing innovative projects from certain taxes there, and we're giving them benefits. And there is a need for caution and caution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u145	So you're in, Sergey Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u146	I'm in. I'm in.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u147	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u148	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian-Taiwan MPs would be able to visit, see a technology park in Taiwan. And I'll remind you that the many island, 22 million people, 370 kilometers in the longest part, and 70 in the breadth, GDP is $286 billion. GDP! And it's because of technology and new technologies. So I am firmly in favour of adopting this law and amending the Law on the Special Regime for Investment and Innovation in Technology Parks. Another question is that we need to control the operation of these technology parks so that we don't have what we have in the Crimean, where the wings of the GAZ were driven, and the rushes of the Crimea were already in Crimea. And dear friends, of course, we have to see the positive fact that the position of the bill on setting a three-month deadline after the project is completed, after which the funds allocated to the unused are to be recovered, is more acceptable than the current law, which is established that the return is to be made only by funds that are not used during the statutory period of the special investment and innovation regime, rather than a specific project. It is only right that the responsibility for non-implementation of innovation and investment projects is increased. It is proposed to anticipate the consequences, not for failure, but for failure by participants, performers of innovation and investment projects. As a result, these effects are more effective and more real to life. He's absolutely in line with both the law, the law, and its final position. And certainly, the implementation of this law will lead to a new level of Ukraine. Taking this opportunity, I would like to tell you that Ukraine is known not only for its bad consequences. Now I'm a little upset by the decision that was made at the clean metal factory, where new technologies are needed right now. There political games began around the factory director and involved the State Property Fund. But with the opportunity, I want to say that Ukraine is still known for positive examples. And it's our science, and it's the achievements that are in aviation today. And Ukraine is also known as a country where good lawyers. Yes, the president of the World Association of Jurists from forty countries in the world was Valery Alexanderovich Evdokimov, the head office of this organization was in Washington, and now the main office would be in Kiev. I think we Ukrainians should welcome this, be proud of having both normal lawyers and normal scientists. And the law will help us to have even better scientists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, we've got two men standing up for us. Now two against one. Mikhail Antonovich, do you mind? Let's save time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u150	Thank you. I must speak so that my “against” should turn into a “pro”. I am opposed to the fact that there is no article in this bill that would oblige the government to develop a strategy for the creation of technology parks in the major scientific fields. I literally handed over to the Prime Minister a program to restore Ukraine's electronic industry. We've assigned number one priority, Igor Raphaelovich, to the program. But until now, we feel ourselves losing our position. There is no proper concentration of effort. And so I would like to add to this article these changes in order for the Ministry of Science and Education, this very good ministry, to unite the efforts of education and science in order to track these new fields. Instead of taking a local route, why not concentrate on intelligence? On the one hand. On the other hand, I would like the Ministry of Science and Education to support free programming, such a law, I think the committee will support. So that we don't fall into such a trap. We've learned, Ukraine has taught the world how to program and learn how to make electronic computing machines. Because the first electronic computing machine was there. in Kiev. And now we're being forced to pay for what we've learned, and our intelligence is easily concentrated. So we need to develop a mechanism so that we don't get dictated by transnational companies so that we don't interfere with them. So we need the technology parks to be a way for the intellectual potential of Ukraine to be exploited. We have the biggest problem today, which is the need for skilled work and intelligence. So technology parks are a step towards this intelligence being concentrated, consumed. But this requires a state strategy. It just won't happen by chance. So all these areas need to be brought together. And the only ministry today that can rise above this in order to develop. ‘ Ministry of Education and Science. So I'm addressing the minister personally, Vasil Grigorovovich Kremen, in order to take the initiative and not wait for someone to come in and convince them together that there's a new technology park. Ukraine should have at least 50-60 technoparks in the main sectors to begin with, and we'll be connected. And then we can really go, confidently join the European Union wherever we want to go. Because the European Union is a competition, it doesn't pay you to be there -- it has to fight for this place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who's against those who signed up? None. Thus, the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Special Investment and Innovation in Technology has been completed. We will make a decision taking into account the discussion that has just taken place. A draft Act amending the Information Agency Act on Establishment of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Reporter - temporarily acting as Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting, Murachovsky Anatoly Leonidovich. Please, Anatoly Leonidovich, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u152	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. For the first time in the Parliamentary Chamber, I'll try to get in in in a minute. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Information Agency Act. This law is especially relevant today, since Ukraine’s defined strategy for entering the World Trade Organization has been established. And the main task of the process of Ukraine's accession to the WTO is to harmonise national legislation with the rules and requirements of the WTO treaties and to fulfil the obligations assumed by the Ukrainian side to the member states of the working group. It is for the purpose of bringing legislation into line with the rules and requirements of the WTO treaties that a bill has been drafted to amend the Ukrainian Information Agency Act. Yes, the bill foresees an increase in the share of foreign investment allowed in the statutory fund of information agencies from 30 to 35 percent. The adoption and implementation of this project creates favourable conditions for investment in the information field, in our view, positively affecting the formation of the information services market in Ukraine, will provide the right conditions for the building of a developed society as an organic segment of the information society and the fulfilment of the obligations of the Ukrainian side to the member states of the working group. The project was approved by the Government, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom and Information. On March 18, this year, it was decided to invite the Supreme Council to adopt the bill in the first reading. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I propose approval of the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Information Agency Act, which will undoubtedly help our State to take a decent place in the international trading system and in the global economy as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u153	Sit down, please. Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, head of the committee. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u154	Mikola Tomenko. Dear colleagues. It's actually about a small enough thing. But this small thing, the committee believes, is taking a small, minor step, but a step that improves the situation, particularly in the activities of information agencies. What is it? Today, we have two key problems in history as a foundation. First problem. It's absolute incomprehensibility and closure. Who, then, is the real founder of the media? And you remember that we raised questions on a number of occasions, and in particular, to bring our peer reviews into line when we said that we had two families, three families owned these media. I've got the Antimonopoly Committee materials, as you understand the same people are also wise, so there's no last name in my mass. Because it's about structures that have something to do with it somewhere in the tenth knee. So the transparency of the founding and the competition of the founding. Today, we have examples that are completely cynical when, with the help of information agencies, false things were started that were viewed on television and no one was responsible. There was a story, as you know, now the truth is so delicately "1+1" apologized to two national MPs onopenko and Pavlovski when information was given that there was information in the Supreme Court to vote for Onopenka to pay terrible bribes. So it turns out that this lie is complete, but a lie that worked in its own time. Or, for example, Mukachev had a history when the First National Information Agency provided information that would soon replace the entire city and break down, so the elections decided to stop. This information did not fully match the reality; indeed, no one has corrected it until now, but what is the point of the problem here. Because it turns out that today's news agency, for example, can call the governor and write, dictate. Or write and dictate from the President's administration. So in our opinion, this small thing, which concerns that from 30 to 35 percent of foreign investment can be the founders, it will at least slightly update and create a situation where, for example, a Ukrainian businessman or a Ukrainian owner of an information agency will have at least a partial influence by a foreign investor who will say that in order to make money to buy our information, we have to speak adequate information instead of calling us on television. Once again, the committee thinks that radicals don't change the situation. But given that there are appropriate requirements when we join international organizations, we feel that this standard will not be hindered and therefore we offer to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Do we need to discuss this? [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, let's listen to Carmazin and that's it. [[B in m in s a l in]] On the board, please, who signed up for the performance. Well, there's nothing I can do, dear colleagues. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u156	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I'm surprised at the credulity of our approach, the lightness of the approach of the committee, Mr. Tomenko. Why? This is Ukraine’s information security today. The attack on Ukraine’s information security has long been under way. We haven't provided it in a long time. The Ukrainian Security Service has long been unsecured. Why? But because we, the Ukrainian deputies, published a book on relations and cooperation between Ukraine and NATO on October 23, 2002. These are the results of parliamentary hearings. Kiev, 2003 It's open, it's written. Item 5. Draft Ukrainian law amending Ukraine's Information Agency Act to remove restrictions on foreign natural, legal persons on the establishment of information agencies. So whose government is asked, the truth is an empty place right now, but it is essentially an empty place, whose tasks are being accomplished? NATO. All of it! Isn't it clear that the owners of our television channels, the owners of our television agencies, why journalists then disappear, are foreigners? And you want to take on the rights of Ukrainian citizens today?Oh, my God! What are you removing, look, from the law?Oh, my God! In article 10 of the Information Agencies Act, you delete the following words: "According to this law, the founder is a citizen, or legal person of Ukraine, who has established an information agency." What are we doing?Oh, my God! We're shutting it down. Next. We exclude in the 12th article: "The state registration of information agencies in Ukraine, based on the participation of citizens or legal persons of other states, is carried out in accordance with the order established by valid legislation for the state registration of joint ventures with the participation of foreign capital enterprises." Well, it's okay! You take it and you delete it! Your Honor, I'm against us giving up our information security. Who gives away their information space like that?Oh, my God! The English raised a scandal when that was the only time. There is no such thing in Germany, there is no such thing in America! And you're being set up and recorded here. And we're supposed to be here like puppets! Stop it, puppets! There is already Janukovic, he signed, more faithfully, it was signed even by Azarov instead of Yanukovič, Azarov signed, First Deputy Prime Minister! I apologize to Yanukovich, it was Azarov who signed. But this is his First Vice Prime Minister. Therefore, it is impossible for honourable national deputies to accept what is being directed against Ukraine’s national security. Thank you for your attention, and I look forward to your wisdom. And let the people of Ukraine know that these bills are being passed on to us! That's why I wouldn't take the floor, but I'm forced by my brothers to protect this state! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u157	Andrew Schlell. One against us is Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, would you please take your position?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u158	I hope to put it briefly, in a brief form. Of course, the warning given by my predecessor is relevant. And you can't miss out on important things like changing the ability to just give the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian Information Policy Society, so we're putting this bill into our space now, and here we have to do good or bad, we're putting foreign information agencies into our information space, not ours that can be used, not by correspondents, but by agencies. This is a very serious step. And I don't think you can do that with your eyes closed, with your ears closed, press the button, and then either regret or rejoice. I want the people's deputies to be aware of what they're doing and to understand what kind of bill they're adopting. What it's going to do with European legislation, you know, I wouldn't be so optimistic about being a government representative that Ukraine is going to Europe, it's, I said, going to Azopa, and it's moving faster. So everything that's wrong, we accept it unconditionally from Europe, we're taking it to Asia. It's a normal kind of Ukrainian move. And we need to act more wisely in this situation. Therefore, this bill is worth more study than just consideration and acceptance. I wanted us all to understand what was going on. It's very simple. Reiter Agency, it's represented in Ukraine by correspondents. In this situation, Reuters will operate in Ukraine as a full subject, and journalists work here. And an increase in the rate. We did. Capital there is 56, increased by only 5 percent, 30 percent and 35. A little step, but still. On the other hand, there's polarity again. We have problems with the fact that Ukrainian information agencies, unfortunately, serve one person. Well, I think the foreigners will be serving another person at least. And here we can get some objectivity. So I just wanted everyone's decision to be conscious when we vote for this bill, not the blind, as they often want us to do, quickly put bills on the mountain. We, with all due respect for the profession, are not miners, we are still supposed to give up on the mountain, not on the rocks, but on the bill, that is, on the finished product. That's what I wanted to stress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u159	Yes, do you mind? Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. We already have two "against"s. I need two pros now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Yavorowski, Zovva, Yavorov, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka block, "Our Ukraine". I was very excited about my colleague Yuri Karmazin’s presentation. But I'm pretty sure I can't be in solidarity with him, and he's exaggerating things about the fact that if there were 30 percent before, and now 35 percent now, that's a danger to Ukraine. This danger is real. And if we didn't even put out 35 right now, 25 or 15 or even 5, that threat wouldn't go away. The thing is, today we are literally a large group of deputies, back from the Cabinet of Ministers meeting, where we discussed a very painful, irritable issue of signing this agreement, a four-angle, sort of, four-state agreement. And it's a good thing that we managed, let's say, to stop that approval that went somewhere from the President's Administration and from many officials and from Azarov was able to stop. So we sat on some realistic ground. If we are talking about the information space of Ukraine today, we need to be honest: we do not have it. But the dramatism of the situation is what it is. If you and I were to now ban explicitly, let's say, foreign investors were involved in establishing printed organs or channels. If we had even banned, let's say a barbaric version of this, it still wouldn't have saved, it wouldn't have made our information space, it wouldn't have made it national. Because, we already know, Medvedchuk and Surkis are holding almost all the newspapers that are now simply hunting for opposition. I don't know where it is anymore, I don't pay attention. And I thank them for doing it in such an ax and free way. On the other hand, if we let, let's say, expand the segment of the foreign capital, we understand very well that not the French will come here, not the Germans, not the Italians, not the Spanish, not the Americans. We understand very well that Russia will come here with its very own. And today we have in the information space of the Moscow Komsomollet newspaper -- a former district newspaper called Komsomolska Russia today is a nationwide newspaper. What state could afford such things with Russian capital? That's why I'm saying once again: the government is proposing this amendment, I want to tell you again -- it's not harmful, it's normal, we have to vote for it. But, dear colleagues, and I say this to myself first of all as the head of the Committee's Freedom of Speech Subcommittee: we need to think and radically change legislation, although it's unlikely that any of this will change. I really liked Reagan's recent phrase, "The abortions are by those who are already born."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u161	Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u162	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, I suggest you look at this problem from a slightly different point of view, which, in my view, should be at least dominant for the Ukrainian Parliament. This is from the Ukrainian point of view, from the point of view of the consumer of information, from the point of view of our population. What do Ukrainian citizens need in the first place? Objective, comprehensive, and fullest possible information. Do they receive such information in our presidency of curved mirrors? I don't think they get that kind of information. And that shows, in fact, that maybe the legislative base is imperfect, even though the main fault here is not in the information base, but in the performers who interpret it and perhaps the powerful who distribute here and the dark ones, well, from the word "dark" to keep people in the dark. And we need information agencies, more good agencies and different agencies, that's understandable. And from this point of view, the participation and involvement of investors, including this, is a positive step. At the same time, Ukraine, as an independent state, must control its information space completely and exclusively. The nation's information security is part of its overall national security. And we can't allow the information space of Ukraine to be controlled by any other state or group of states. That's understandable, too. So this legislation, it has to match different trends, different interests, but for Ukraine's national security, as well as for the Ukrainians. I think there's a law in this law accordingly, so it's contradictory that it's trying to reconcile conflicting things. The fact that the founders of the information agencies are only and exclusively Ukrainian citizens is normal and should be, and the legal persons of Ukraine, is normal. It also says that foreigners can only be cofounders, that is, with participation alone, it means that if it is based on Ukrainian entities. But we know that the founder can only have a name and a name, and the entire capital, and, accordingly, who pays, who orders music, can be foreign. So I'm very afraid that this bill can just be adopted, printed, like we do, unfortunately, too big, sometimes mechanically, completely without any change. On the other hand, I'm sorry, but I'm afraid that the iron curtain will be re-created, as it was not allowed to live normally and to develop in Ukraine. So I don't think there's going to be a great tragedy if we take this bill as a basis, but, God forbid, if we immediately vote it out in general. But any extremes, I think, are dangerous, because together with the dirty water of disinformation, we can fumigate the informational little boy who's just being born, that's our fine independent press. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Information Agencies Act will be adopted on the day of the vote. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on General Military Duty and Military Service is being announced for consideration. [[on the performers of the military orchestras]] What about the foster parents? And we've got the performers. Reporter is Deputy Chief of General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine Shelest Eugene Fedorovich. Please. Very short, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u164	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The Ministry of Defence of Ukraine has developed a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on General Military Obligation and Military Service to determine the status of guardians of military orchestras. Maintaining education and training in military orchestras is a military tradition. Raising orphans in military orchestras has a centuries-old history. As a rule, most schoolchildren continue military service in military orchestras and join military educational institutions after reaching the age of recruitment. The adoption of this bill will help improve the upbringing, education, social protection and material welfare of orphans, children, deprived of parental care and children from multi-child families, because it is this category of children that is preferred when they are admitted to the military orchestra. To date, the issue of the maintenance of musical leaders of the military orchestras is still covered by the Order of the Minister of Defence of the Soviet Union and the directive of the Chief of General Staff. In this connection, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine's legal and regulatory provisions relating to the maintenance and security of music educators raise some comments from the central executive authorities on the determination of their legal status at the legislative level. It is proposed that the following amendments and additions be made to the Ukrainian Law on General Military Duty and Military Service. To complement a section that regulates the preparation of citizens for military service with such an element as the preparation of citizens for military service in military orchestras. To anticipate the possibility of preparing conscripts and conscripts in military orchestras in the order determined by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, as well as by the citizens of previous preparations for the entrance to higher military training institutions in military orchestras. Taking into account that the current category of Ukrainian citizens is actually in charge of military parts, the adoption of this law by Ukraine will not result in additional costs from Ukraine’s State Budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u165	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Anatoly Ivanovich Domanski, Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u166	One minute. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! I wouldn't go out on this rostrum. The experience of my service in the Armed Forces, Division, Army, Front or District tells us that by meeting these boys, who were the band's teachers, the impersonators, who were shining their eyes out of pride, that they were wearing military uniforms, proud that they might be our outstanding singers, maybe composers. And with this bill, we're going to reduce them by a hundred, by a thousand street kids, to talk less on the street. Perhaps the pride of Ukrainian art is growing among them?Oh, my God! A composer or a musician and so on. I won't say anything. Please. And I don't think there should be a person in this room today or in any faction who would vote against it. 450 votes must be voted in favour of the bill!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues, so convincing that perhaps there is no need to discuss it. Yuri Anatolyovich, would you mind? Carmazin's microphone, please record, insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u168	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Surely, after what Domansky said, there is a need and a desire to push the button immediately. We only have a vote tomorrow. But I would like to draw your attention, to the Ministry of Defense, that for the sake of a single line, for one and a half words, we are dedicating this meeting today. This law, which was passed in 1992, is full of disagreements that need to be made. Wasn't it a shame for the military and Deputy Prime Minister Azarov to raise this issue with a separate question today's agenda? Wasn't that embarrassing?Oh, my God! This is the first time. It's different. The arrangements for the organization of recruitment and the preparation of conscripts are determined by the provision for the invitational training, which is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Now it's proposed to the Ministry of Defense to hand over. Because we know that people don't just serve in the Ministry of Defense. I think there's something to think about here for the second reading. Because the situation that is now in existence is expanding and regulating the conduct of all recruitments for military service. Exclusions are only conscripts from military technical expertise, which are also guided by the provision for the preparation of military-technical suitors. Thank you. And I think with that in mind, you can adopt a bill, but by making a note that such small projects would not be brought before the Supreme Council. Bills have to be prepared in a comprehensive manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u169	Kručkov Georgi Korniyovich. Microphone, please turn it on. I'm asking your permission to continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u170	Volodymyr Mikhailovich. First. The committee also drew attention to the Ministry of Defence and, at a meeting in the Cabinet of Ministers, to impermissible practices, when such petty ones, forgive me in word, for one sentence, bills are being tabled for consideration. We agreed that this would no longer be the case. The other one. The law is based on all military formations that are formed according to the laws of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u171	Thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on general government duty and military service for military orchestras has been completed. This is document number 3585. Decisions will be made taking into account your unanimity support. I'm asking you, let's continue some work for 15 minutes, at least to consider a few more bills. The draft Act on Supplements to Article 5, paragraph 5.9 of the Ukrainian Law on Taxation of Income for Enterprises on Accounting for Energy generating Enterprises is being announced for consideration. Rapporteur - National Deputy of Ukraine Bronnikov Vladimir Kostinović Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u172	Bronnikov, 81st District, Zaporozhye, "Regions" faction. Electricity and energy systems are highly seasonal. In the early winter of the year, at the end of the year, the maximum load, the maximum electricity production, the maximum energy consumption. In summer, when the need for electricity and of course in energy resources is declining, the negotiable assets of enterprises are declining, but it is during this period that they need to store coal in storage, during this period that repairs are needed, and the taxation is quarterly, and in the case of carbon storage in storage, there is an additional tax on spare parts, which is, in fact, reduced at the end of the year, but traditionally and in the previous tax law, the tax cycle under this point of the power plant has been applied. We therefore request that this practice be reinstated, to supplement paragraph 5.9 so that electricity can store energy during the year. Second position. Energy resources come in a variety of ways. The one from the mine, the other from the mine. It's from one factory, another factory. All of this goes to the shed and gets mixed up. In this regard, we believe and ask that we be allowed to take into account, on average, the weighted cost of accounting, in the tax accounting of these very data. The bill is in dire need of our energy, since it inhibits the accumulation and preparation of our thermal power plants for the winter. The bill requires an oil and gas industry, which. Restricts the accumulation of gas in underground shelters. There are absolutely positive conclusions from all the committees. Our committee voted unanimously. We are fully supported by the Mintopenergo, with which the law. I'm asking for backup. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u173	Thank you. Please, from the committee, head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Vitaly Hometicnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, we have considered this bill at a committee meeting. The main points that are included in the bill are the amendments to the Business Income Act. In particular, Article 5, paragraph 5.9 of the Tax Law on Business Income, to which we have included since 1 January 2003, that the reporting period for the accounting of the increase and cancellation of the balance sheet, for the purchase of materials, raw materials and residues of the finished product during the reporting period is a quarter, half-year, 9 months and year. Exclusion is made for agricultural enterprises, as there is a specific feature. Since electricity consumption over the year is uneven and there is a need to accumulate coal, gas, oil to consume it during the fall-winter period, it is proposed to amend this paragraph 5.9, in particular the definition of the year-end growth and loss of book value, such as the specificity of the work of the TEC enterprises, is comparable to that of agricultural enterprises. The Committee therefore supports this part. In addition, given the technology, storage and use of fuel and energy facilities, as well as the significant list of such stocks required for economic activity, it is proposed that, in the event of stockpiles being phased out, their cost be evaluated not only by the two methods established, namely, the value method of the first, the time of income or the cost method of the unit concerned, but also by the average weighted value method, because, as the previous speaker, the author had said, the need for this calculation. It should be borne in mind, however, that paragraph 5.9 of the Act provides that the methods applied by taxpayers to take account of the value of goods will enter into force as a law since the adoption of the law. However, we are saying that the tax period will be one year. The Committee therefore decided to adopt, on first reading and second reading, the points concerning the introduction of the law. Either enter from quarter four, and there is a contradiction, or enter from January 1st of the following year, which will be correct. Therefore, the Committee's decision to vote on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u175	Thank you. Who insists on this bill? Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u176	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I would like to thank the national MP Bronnikov for preparing this bill. It seems to me that all energy-generating enterprises should thank for this because the existing tax system is actually designed to suppress businesses. And our debt to all of Ukraine's businesses is what today is on the value added tax. Sixty-two thousand tax inspectors in the country are the disproportionate burden we bear. We're on the eve of the budget. We need to think about whether this amount is needed when we adopt the budget. As for the comments on this project, and they certainly are, I'm in favor of the first reading. But this is definitely the right hand of our colleague Homutinnik, who said that this law should be passed as of January 1, 2003. Because there will be budget losses, that's what the Scientific and Expert Office is talking about in its conclusion, which simply says that there will be a reduction in income tax during this year, that year that will be adopted, because the calculations will be made as a result of the reporting year. It's appropriate at this time. Tax. It would be right in line with article 27 of the budget code, according to the expert board, to send a bill to the Ministry of Finance for an expert opinion on how to determine the value of the income or expenditure of the budgets. So I think it's only about enough to calculate the loss of the budget. At the same time, you can predict revenue coming from improving the work of energy - generated enterprises. In my estimate, it's going to be a balance somewhere. The accounts were not presented to us by the Bronnikov people's deputy, so we have to take our word for it, but by adopting this law on January 1st, I think we'll be able to secure ourselves from making an economically unjustified decision and at the same time protect energy-generating enterprises. I mean, I have this observation that we need to figure it out so that we can see that we haven't done anything for the state right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, we will consider that the draft law on supplementing article 5, paragraph 5.9 of the Ukrainian Law on Business Income Taxation has been completed. [[on the calculation of the balance and cost of generating enterprises]] We will make a decision on the day of the vote. I see your hand, Peter Stepanovich. But I can see that Oleg Zarubinsky is standing. Let us therefore: if there is no objection, we will now consider a draft law amending the Cabinet Decree on State Customs, and then Peter Stepanovich asks to consider a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the social protection of war veterans and victims of Nazi persecution. Very short. No objections? The draft law amending the Ukrainian Cabinet Decree on State Customs on the acquisition of presidential forms, taking into account customs duties from registration documents, is then announced for consideration. Reporter, Deputy Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine Lekar Sergey Ivanovich. Sergey Ivanovich, I very briefly ask you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! This bill is particularly about optimizing the current order of government duties for the acquisition of promissory forms. To date, it is important to note that this issue is governed by Presidential Decree No. 504/93 on the payment of government duties for promissory forms. According to the Constitution, article 92 of the tax and congregation tax system should be governed only by laws. This is the main reason for these changes. And the bill provides for amendments to articles 3 and 6 of the decree. the introduction of state-of-the-art payment for billing forms. The law regulates the relationship between the promissory circulation, but there is a problem with buying billing forms from natural persons. It is therefore proposed that this issue be settled by law during the acquisition of fixed banks, setting a corresponding payment of 0.1 percent of the untaxed minimum, i.e. the amount is small and does not affect the financial situation of citizens, and it is particularly important to note that the introduction of the bill does not require additional costs. And during the acquisition of the relevant promissory forms, the payment of government duties will sort out the process of their acquisition and the corresponding passage of the data of the promissory forms that have been issued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u179	Have a seat, please. Oleg Zarubinsky, Ukrainian national deputy Please prepare Vasil Petrovich Zushko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u180	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'll be totally constricted. I also have amendments to the State Customs Decree, but it refers to a different position. The bill provides for adjustments to the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The proposed changes are intended to refer to the state budget for re-registration and any changes to the documents previously issued. Today it goes to the local budget, but the whole issue of passports is done by the State Budget. And so the proposal to restore the system that was before is not just an abstract proposition. The fact is that today there are very serious problems in financing a single state-owned automated passport system. We don't all know that. Consider these points: Since January 1, 2005, most Ukrainian citizens who will go abroad may have very serious difficulties because they will not be released by the countries of the European Union. In 2001, the Warsaw Conference of Representatives of the EU Member States, which will be 25 countries in 2005, is known to have adopted a resolution on the need to meet certain conditions for the safety of passports and other road documents. Today our passports do not meet European standards, which, I say again, will not be missed. I have very positive conclusions from the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance. In a letter to me, Secretary of State Jaroshenko writes that the proposals for the mobilization of additional revenue to the State budget for the costs and for the administration of the State moment for the processing of foreign passports are supported by Minfin and will be considered in the preparation of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2004. And in response to a request from a colleague of the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, he said that in this situation he deserved, I quote, "to the attention of the bill of the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Zarubinsky, "To amend the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine," particularly considering that the production of all kinds of forms, passport documents and the implementation of practical measures for the implementation of a single state-owned passport system is carried out at the expense of the State Budget, it is proposed to refer to him and to the coming of a public customs fee for the provision of passport and visa services. So I ask you to support my proposal and make it so that we can get modern European documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u181	Thank you. Vasil Petrovich Cuzko, First Deputy Head of the Committee on Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, according to the bill that Mr. Doctor reported to you, our committee supported it. It is a technical and actual decree of 1993, the Presidential Decree, we bring it into line with the Constitution, and we transpose it into the law. Proposal by the Committee: To adopt it on first and second reading. The bill proposed by our colleague, Zarubinski, was supported by the Committee. The only thing we propose is that this law be enacted as of 1 January 2004. And Zarubinski's colleague agreed, because this is the budget year, so it will be included in the budget. Therefore, both bills were supported by our committee; they could be adopted on both first and second readings. Thank you. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Yuri Anatolyevich, can we finish? No, it's not. Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u184	Thank you. Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, consider what we are making, and we propose to make changes: to the Cabinet of Ministers decree on government duties. The decrees haven't been issued in 10 years, and we're still making changes. There's no organ like that. Guys, dear friends, couldn't you have made a new law and combed it all up? Should we not be ashamed that we are still making changes ten years before this bill? That's the first remark. Second remark. Today, the issue of paying for the sale of forms is a separate tax, since government duties in Ukraine are paid by natural and legal persons for their actions and the issuance of documents of legal significance authorized by the authorities. As a result of the content of the decree mentioned by the Cabinet of Ministers, the State's duty is paid for the issuance of documents by the state-authorized authorities and private notaries themselves. And it's not the banking institutions that implement the promissory notes. Therefore, the setting up of billing forms does not correspond to article 2 of the same decree, which establishes a list of objects from which government duties are paid. Therefore, I do not believe that the prescribed bill is in line with a state policy aimed at simplifying the tax system and reducing the tax burden on economic operators. Fits, God, take it right away in two readings. In addition, in 1993 the President's decree on the government's mint gold for the billing forms was issued. And that decree is still in effect. And since the President's decree itself could only be annulled by the President or recognized by the unconstitutional Constitutional Court, in order to remove the ambiguity in the bill, it was necessary to provide for the position that would be proposed to the President in connection with the adoption of the bill, if adopted in the first reading, to cancel the decree on the payment of government duties for the promissory forms dated 21 January 1993 No. 7-93. Moreover, he violates the valid Constitution that he is today. With regard to Bill 2479, which is now reported by the Zarubinsky People’s Deputy, he deserves full support, and he can be accepted both in the first and second readings. Tushko's right here. Because there's actually no violation of any citizens' rights. And it's proposed to include in the state budget a government duty paid by receiving and re-registering Ukrainian citizens' registration documents for going abroad. So when we simplify the situation to a minimum, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and together we consider two bills, we need to distinguish the conclusion one way and the other. The first bill is not to be adopted in two readings, but only the first one, with observations. And the second bill can be adopted in both first and second readings. Thank you. I took your time not to just take time or do anything. I just wanted to be here. Baby, you see, he agreed with me that he agreed with me on the first and second questions. Thank you. That's exactly what I wanted to point out.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u185	Thank you. Andrew School, please. Well, we haven't finished this one yet. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u186	Thank you. I would also like to highlight where I finished my previous report. These two concepts cannot be confused because the audience, especially the radio, may have a double understanding of the situation. The point is that Law 2479 is a necessary law that introduces a new passport. In Ukraine, which will be budgeted internationally, in exchange between nations. We are now on the sidelines of the European process, so at least we need to introduce a document that will allow us to enter at least through hard borders. So we need to be completely clear and, in fact, in the first and second readings, emphasize that this bill regulates the receipt of documents to leave Ukraine, i.e. foreign passports. This is today's foliot. which we drive with us, we build seals, people change them every six months, give us the opportunity to get a Ukrainian citizen a modern plastic document that can be used to cross the state border of Ukraine. And in fact this bill I fully support and call on all the national MPs to support it, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers decree on State Customs on the acquisition of presidential forms and the registration of customs from registration documents under numbers 3163, 2479 has been completed. We will make decisions as a result of the deliberations on the day of the vote. As we agreed, a draft law on amending certain Ukrainian laws on the social protection of war veterans and victims of Nazi persecution is under consideration. The reporter is Vasil Nadrag. Please, Vasil Ivanovich. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u188	Thank you. General theme. To date, these bills do not alter the number of receipts. beneficiaries of benefits, their social security. They relate to the methodology behind our legislation. Regrettably, other categories of legislation on war veterans have been adopted, which has led to the addition of a large number of other categories that are not directly involved in the war and parties to the war in the law on the status of veterans of the Great Homeland War and the guarantees of their social protection. The bill proposes to remove the category of “victims of Nazi persecution”, which have a cohesive law, from this law and to make the law on victims of Nazi persecution fully valid, thus allowing them to work more easily with regard to the assistance of the German and Austrian funds, which today make these payments to our citizens who have entered into the Great Homeland War in Germany for forced labour and Austria, and thus allow them to make one law more clearly under the veterans of the Great Homeland War, the second full-fledged law on victims of Nazi persecution. This will enable, once again, people who are victims of Nazi persecution to live by a separate law, with all the guarantees and social protection they have not had today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u189	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Peter Stepanovich, position of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u190	Dear colleagues! The committee carefully considered the bill and supported it. Moreover, he received support from the Labour and Social Policy Committee. It's about absolutely technological things, it's about dividing the categories of war participants and the victim of Nazi persecution. In fact, this puts everything in place, since the Law on the Status of Veterans of War, Guarantee and Social Protection, which was adopted by one of the first of these laws, included some categories that have only a direct bearing on the Great Homeland War and do not have a direct bearing on it. And that's why I think it's an absolutely important bill that needs to be adopted. And where we're just starting this process, now we're breaking two laws, then we're going to have to break two more laws, but that's actually a necessary thing, and we have to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u191	Thank you. Who insists on this? Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u192	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I have insisted on speaking because, in accordance with article 22 of the Constitution, changes to valid laws should not be allowed to narrow down the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms. Such a violation will take place in Article 6 prime. A project on the housing rights of victims of Nazi persecution, which is comparable to those involved in hostilities under the Ukrainian War veterans Act, guarantees their social protection, in particular in connection with the proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution. Such persons lose their right to a living area within two years of the date of the rent. We have no right to do that. In addition, we need to take into account the comments that are set out in article 6 of the 4th project, where benefits are provided to wives, husbands of dead victims of Nazi persecution, who are recognized for life as disabled by general illness, work disability, and other reasons why they have not been married. Only with these points in mind will this law be acceptable. We cannot today make any person offended, so we can no longer go to narrow down existing rights and freedoms, to violate article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u193	No one's insisting, dear colleagues, on the performance? So we're looking at a project. Please, Peter Stepanovich. Cybenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u194	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich, thank you for your offer, for your reply. We will consider carefully. It's going to be a material for the second reading. But believe me, the ideology of the law is that we have no intention of depriving anyone of anything. So let us take a closer look at your comments. But once again, I emphasize, to a greater extent, by addressing Ukrainian citizens. When I say that the law is technological, I would like to point out that we do not take anything away from anyone. We refer every category, such as citizens with benefits, to the law. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u195	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Dear colleagues, a review of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the social protection of war veterans and victims of Nazi persecution has been completed. This is document number 3383. The decision will be made in the light of the discussion. The proposal was also short - lived. I remember. Consider, if you don’t mind, two such documents. The first is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the subordination of the State Department of Fire Safety. And the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on additional safeguards for the protection of the financial interests of the State. This is where they insisted. Is there no objection? So let's think about this very briefly. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the subordination of the State Department of Fire Safety is being announced for consideration. Reporter - Minister for Emergency Situations and People’s Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Grigory Vasilovich Reva. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u196	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The project is designed to amend Ukraine's laws on police, fire safety and general structure, the number of interior ministries. That's a technical question. In view of the fact that the Ministry of Internal Affairs is now under way, the State Department of Fire Safety has been transferred to the Ministry of Emergency Situations. So I'd like your support. Legal procedures are in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u197	Thank you. Alexander Markovich Bandurka, please microphone. Committee position. Will you be from the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u198	We're backing it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u199	Thank you. Who has the warning in this regard? None. We will consider that the review of the draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the subordination of the State Department of Fire Safety has been completed. This is document number 3516. We'll make a decision tomorrow, that is, Thursday. A draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine on additional safeguards for the protection of the financial interests of the State is being announced for consideration. Reporter to the Vice - Chief of the Committee on Finance and Banking Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u200	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies, I am very brief. The law, developed by the members of the Committee on Finance and Banking, focuses on strengthening mechanisms to guarantee the State’s financial interests. In this regard, we propose to establish in the Ukrainian Law "On Sources of Financing of Government Authorities" a rule on mandatory compliance by budget managers with the expenditure arrangements established by the Ukrainian Budget Code and the Ukrainian Law "On Procurement of Goods, Works and Services". There is no proposal for weakening the influence of the state in this bill. Therefore, we ask him to support and vote in view of the fact that the changes that are being made are completely small, to vote both in the first reading and in general as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u201	Yes, thank you. Government position, please. Vladimir Leonidovich Prin is the first Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and European Integration.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u202	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Igor Viktorovich! The Cabinet of Ministers considered the bill and a letter signed by First Deputy Prime Minister Azarov Mikli Janović suggested that the Cabinet of Ministers did not support the bill under several circumstances: first, that the changes that were being made were essentially not in line with the stated objective and were in fact a duplication of the Budget Code, and in article two of the Ukrainian Law on the purchase of goods, jobs, services. In addition, the bill provides for the granting of the right from the contracting authorities of the budget to allow consulting firms to carry out their duties. First of all, it gets complicated, and nowhere is that in practice in the world, it's not. In addition, a notary certificate of contracts is provided. This, on the one hand, is just to increase the term, and it also increases the procedure. In view of that, I said that. not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u203	Yes, please, Yuri Anatolyovich, judge us. Carmazine, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u204	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs who are now in the hall, members of the government! I have no right to reason, I will only say my point of view. I want to say that the proposal for the adoption of this law is too bold both in the first and second readings. Too bold because the government is right because the authors of the project propose a new norm of the law to pay for services for the development of solicitation documents directly to a legal or natural person who has appropriate experience in the registration of intellectual property, which in itself is an interesting and intellectual property for tender documentation. In doing so, it is suggested that those bids be rejected in the event of a non-payment of the tender documentation. So it's considered that when procurement is done for the budget costs of goods, jobs, services, the most important is the payment of the solicitation documentation to a certain legal or natural person. So the question is, maybe you should specify in the project a direct and last name, your parent's name, your calculation account, your lower limit, your upper limit, how much do you have to pay? So there are big remarks to this bill, despite the fact that they in themselves deserve attention. It is worth noting, at least, that the experience that is now, including the purchase of state funds, such as in the Ministry of Defence, in other budgetary institutions, has shown that sometimes companies that are not found are involved. These are examples from the Ministry of Defence, such as those from the Ministry of Health, and these are examples from the Ministry of Health. That's why I think that the law can be adopted in the first reading, but with the huge, huge details that need to be foreseen right now, so that it doesn't have to be broken, in particular, in addition to the part of the second article of article 34, which reads: "The purchase agreement is made only in writing and in accordance with the provisions of the Civil Code." And here, if the amount of the contract exceeds 40,000 euros, there must be a notary form of the contract. There is also a question like the question of proposals: who has not paid the value of the tender documentation is rejected by the bidders. That's why I want us to be reasonable when we accept this document. Only in the first reading can you take into account all the comments of the government and these concerns of mine, excuse me, which will then go to millions of dollars to the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-10-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on additional safeguards for the protection of the financial interests of the State has been completed. This is document number 3519. We'll make a decision on Thursday. Thus, we have every reason to declare the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Since 16 hours of work on committees and factions. Tomorrow's day of adoption by the Supreme Council of Decisions. Thank you for participating in the work, for having an active share in the work. Good-bye.
