ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u1	People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Invite the national deputies to the session room. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:34]] Registered -434 There were 434 national deputies registered. [[Have a seat, please.]] I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, during our recess, we held several sessions with the participation of the leaders of the MPs and factions, representatives of the committees. We discussed the situation in the context of the draft laws on amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine, and we came to such conclusions. I'm asking them to listen. First and foremost, the conclusion. This is a matter of the order of the day, and there is no need to vote for it. The second conclusion is that we need to consider the referral orders, not the substantive discussion of the bills, but the substantive procedural question: to send bills to the Constitutional Court to obtain the conclusion of the Constitutional Court. After that, we will consider them essentially when we come to a conclusion. We agreed, once again, I would like to emphasize that in order for draft regulations to come forward, they will report. We agreed that for the report and the answers to each project, we would need 10 minutes. Then take the vote. If there are any disagreements, then we announce a break and meet again with the leaders of the MPs and factions, we are discussing the situation. If there's a consensus decision, they're leading to your knowledge, we're continuing our work. That's what I'd like to say. So if there's no objection, let's keep looking. Please proceed with the Taras Blackwall procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. We can see that it's trying to push, that it's not trying. Let us, however, establish the judges for a start, first of all, so that we do not bring this reproach. And the second is that the court system finally got the employees.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u3	I want to answer this proposal by Taras Cranovil in such a way that we are in the process of dealing with this question. If this question is blocked, it will not be considered as I said, the session will be closed today, and we will not be covered up by judges. Because when we had complex commissions, and I suggested that we make an exception and look at the issues essentially, and then they said, let's take essentially, and then we'll look at the judges. Please, Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you not to discuss any further, to pass on the word Matvienko, let him report to keep us moving. We're standing in the same place this afternoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u5	Thank you. Boiler and keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I draw your attention to such a fact. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to. Vladimir Mikhailovich, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I draw your attention to the fact that the Constitutional Court's decision of 1998 contains such words that the form of the appeal of the Supreme Council to amend the Constitution requires a legislative settlement. In the past, an attempt has been made to regulate the procedure. The Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the law passed by Victor Medvedchuk and George Khrüchchev. The president vetoed the bill twice. I now quote from the veto: the Constitutional Court also points out the need for a legislative settlement of this issue. Without filling this gap, the passed law will not work, and the issue of how the Supreme Council of Ukraine should turn to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine will remain unresolved. So the question is that we cannot refer any bill to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u7	Thank you. Microphone. Alexander Alexanderus Moroz. Please, please, I ask you for an explanation and we will continue to consider the issues. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u8	Deputies! Although I am not a representative of the Constitutional Court, during these months I had to study all of his decisions, including the reference made by Deputy Zvaric. That's what this is about. The Constitutional Court has made it clear that the referral to the Constitutional Court for the conclusion of the draft Law on Amendments to the Constitution requires a legislative settlement. This may take various forms, including the Supreme Council’s decree, which is also part of the Supreme Council’s legislative acts. The other one. He said that the subject of amending the Constitution was the Supreme Council in the event that it was considering the draft Law on Changes to the Constitution, which had already reached the conclusions of the Constitutional Court, and when the Supreme Council was making changes. Changes are made by the subject of the Supreme Council’s consideration of the matter, so it is the subject of submission. Thus today we need to regulate the general procedure, i.e. to establish an order whereby draft laws on changes to the Constitution registered in accordance with the established order are sent to the Constitutional Court under the signature of the Head of the Supreme Council without voting them in substance in the Supreme Council. That's what we have to decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u9	We talked about this at the meeting of the leaders of the MPs and factions, and we came to the final conclusion that this conclusion, which Alexander Alexander Alexander Moroz has just made, is valid. I'm just sorry that faction leaders don't get to know the factions, the MPs, about the substance of our deals. Hence, we may have some misunderstandings. I invite you to the podium of Matvienka Anatolia Sergiyovich for a report on the draft regulations proposed by the State Building Committee. Get ready, Pehoti. We agreed that in five minutes, the report, within five minutes of the question, and then the next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u10	Vladimir Mikhailovich, only I have a question for you. I have two projects that I have to report, and I have 20 minutes, I understand. Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to two bills where I'm one of the authors, this is number 327-p and number 3688. In such a sequence, I will try to inform you of the logic of the preparation and the text, the content of these regulations. First. I would like to ask all of you to understand that in today's decision, which is so difficult to come by and which we want to take into account, we are limited by two documents and we have to take this situation into account. The first document is the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 154 and 159, and the second document is the Constitutional Court's decision to refer the President to the Order of Amendments to the Constitution under section 98 of the Constitution. What article 154 says is, to a large extent, for radio audiences, for those who listen to our session. Article 154 states that changes to the Constitution or subject to changes to the Constitution can be at least one third of the deputies, or at least one hundred and fifty, and the President. In this way, this article makes it clear that there are two equivalent subjects who can address the issue of changes to the Constitution. And in any way prefer one or the other subject, this is a demonstration by the Supreme Council of disrespect for the Constitution, to article 154. The other one. Article 159 states that the Supreme Council is essentially unable to consider a bill on changes to the Constitution before reaching a conclusion by the Constitutional Court. So, trying to tell us today which project is better and which project is worse, which project we are supporting, which project we are not supporting, is inappropriate and inappropriate. Moreover, article 159 says that in fact the Supreme Council cannot consider any project, it has only one function to carry out -- it has to send bills, if they meet the requirements of subjectivity, to the Constitutional Court. That's why I've prepared a bill of 327-p for the purpose of assigning the Head of the Supreme Council, without any responsibility, to send two bills to the Constitutional Court. And there was no discussion about who we respect more, and whom we respect less, is to fulfill our constitutional duty. But when it became clear to me that a group of people's deputies is being introduced by a bill that favours only one of the two that is equivalent, then I proposed a bill under number 3688, which removes the collegiate of dragging the so-called political cannato into this room and which solves the problem in accordance with the requirements of the Constitutional Court of Referral for a preliminary examination of the draft amendments to the Constitution. This bill tells us that we have to establish this procedure and entrust it to the Head of the Supreme Council, which should be the decision of the Supreme Council, the bills that come and meet the requirements of 154 articles of the Constitution, i.e. at least one third of the deputies or from the President automatically to the Constitutional Court. And when we get the conclusions of the Constitutional Court, only then will the Supreme Council take these projects into consideration, create a commission or assign them to the professional committees, and only then will the Supreme Council become the subject of these bills and their possible subsequent submission to the Constitutional Court. Up to this point, the President or one third of the Supreme Council’s constitutional composition is the subject. So I'm making a proposal because I'm the author of these two bills, and since Bill 3688, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm addressing you, excluding Bill 327-P, I would propose to vote on this bill instead of my first 3688, and if it were to be approved in this way, it would remove any need to vote for the following bills. Except for one amendment, if you allow it to be formulated. If you take this bill, the first sentence states "in the light of a decision of the Constitutional Court." Obviously, it would be right to write, "taking into account the decision of the Constitutional Court." And in the very operative part, since the President's project has passed 20 numbers, and here's the ten-day term, so that we don't get into a conflict, write a fifteen-day term, and in this way don't question the purity of our intentions, save the face of the Supreme Council, don't switch to someone who wants to manipulate and perform their function. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u11	Questions to Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenka if you have any, please write down. On the board, please. Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u12	The Rodions, the Communist faction, I'm sitting here. Dear reporter, I have a question like this. If your offer goes through, right? Now, these two bills go to the same level of expertise and come out of the Constitutional Court with their proposals, but will they then be discussed evenly, or is the bill that the Constitutional Court makes as a matter of priority?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u13	I think the Constitutional Court can't have any prejudice, the Constitutional Court is essentially going to make its decision, and we have, considering it, to view it as equivalent projects in this room. Which one of them will be the priority, will determine the vote after the Constitutional Court has reached its conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u14	Yes, Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u15	Mr. Anatoly, I would like to ask first of all the need for a general procedure for discussing a bill that has no basis in principle to be put into the agenda. That's the first one. The other one. We're constantly creating in the Supreme Council a bunch of colossals when we're acting in violation of the Rules, contrary to the laws that are in force in Ukraine. I can't understand what we're doing right now, covering a fig leaf with the wish of the President-in-Office to extend his term, and somehow we're playing him and by this bill, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u16	As to whether or not I think we have a day-to-day question about direction, and there really is a problem here, but we are solving this problem. We're really solving the problem of direction, but we're not talking about documents essentially, but we're talking about the procedure that we're doing by doing this item on the agenda. And since, again, I repeat, this project, if it is voted out, excludes the need to vote on everything else, so I propose and insist, and by the agreement of the faction leaders, it has to be put to the vote first.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u17	Yes, please, Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u18	Please pass the word to Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u19	Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u20	Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich! Now, I've got this information that I don't doubt, and I've got a lot of MPs to support one of the bills or even two bills to write in one of the decrees, and then all over the world, to talk about 400 MPs supporting exactly the kind of innovations that they're predicting, for example, the extension of the presidency of today's President for three more years. So it's not right if we really give up on these proposals, and we're only voting on your project. That's the first part of the question. And the second. After we vote on your project, don't you think it's necessary just not to make a presentation of projects that have already been discussed, and others have been discussed. They just need to be published, people will figure it out. Because in 10 or 15 minutes, you're going to find out about these projects.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u21	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. I want to tell you about the first question. What if we want to set up or demonstrate a bear service, we have to give priority to one or the other document. And I think that the President's authority, which insists that only his project be voted on, will not win, and will disappear even more. If we are open - minded people, we should not even vote on a bill where there are two projects. Because one part doesn't want to vote for the other, and the other part doesn't want to vote for the other. And I think not to rape anyone today, give them a not entirely parliamentary word, then give up the name of the project and propose a general formula that will remove the conflict that we've demonstrated before lunch today. As to the second question. I think I'd suggest putting it to a vote and if it did, then we'd save time and consider judges who were really waiting for us to look at them as quickly as possible, and we'd look at agriculture and problems. But that's the question of the session. That's how it's going to be defined. I've made my point.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u22	So is the national MP Alexiyuk, the faction of our Ukraine. Is there an Alexiyuk? Asadchev was given the word Alexiyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u23	Thank you. Anatoly Sergiyovich, well, I'm, frankly, very surprised at your being in the rostrum at all, because in the order of the day, the question that you report is not. Before the break, we tried to include him in the agenda, and we didn't include him. And I don't understand at all why we're considering this right now. And I want to know how you think this is supposed to work, let's say, our faction or I personally if we want to follow the rules of the Rules, the law, and most people don't want it, and why does it not want to? She doesn't want two bills -- she says we only want one. It works by breaking the order of the day, including, by the way, the leadership of the Supreme Council. How, then, should opposition work? What do you think we should do now after your performance, which is not in order of the day? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u24	Thank you. Mr. Valeria, I'd like to deny you a little bit and part of it. The objection is that I am the author of the draft, the bill 327-p, which is in order of the day, and that is why I am on this rostrum, that is the determination, and that is why I am not on this rostrum by accident. As to your question. The conciliatory board, on which I was present as the head of the profiling committee, agreed to an interpretation as I understood it, and I will hand it over to you. The question today is about sending draft laws to the Constitutional Court. And if that's the case, my decision 3688 solves this problem, so it solves the problem of direction and tells us how. So there's a problem with the interpretation that you've formulated. To be appointed, of course, by the Supreme Council. As for what you're saying, as I would advise you, I would advise you to vote on the first decree of 3688 and move on to other issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u25	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. Have a seat, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u26	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I insist once again that draft Decree 3688 is voted first. And the other one.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u27	We made that decision with you, we agreed. Calm down, dear fellows, calm down. Once again, what was the agreement, which is the Rules, which is the procedure. Now we're going to be presenting all the projects, then in order of arrival, which is the first to vote on Matthew. Yeah, we made a deal with you. Please, Pehota. I'm telling you again, it's a very procedural question. Yes, we are now considering the direction. I want to say once again, my dear colleagues, to give you an example of how we're doing. We discussed today the issue of Government Day in September, there were two decrees, each reported, and then there was a vote. Yes, we will follow that course. Yeah, let's do that. Please, Anatoly Tolstoy. Tolstouchov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u28	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I would like to state the position of a permanent parliamentary majority, which is the following. Today we have another day of barren work of the Supreme Council. And I'd like to apologize to our voters for that. I would like to apologize to the judges who are also waiting for our decision. But today all the arrangements of the Conciliation Council and all the meetings in the head of the Supreme Council have been violated. Today you can say, and in the morning you can see who is blocking the work of the Supreme Council. I would like to state that the parliamentary majority, with the right to implement its project, has constantly sought compromise. And the last compromise, which was proposed by a permanent parliamentary majority, was to vote and correct both the President's draft and the Supreme Council's project, and to give the Chief of the Supreme Council further consideration to these issues for 15 days. But today we are familiar with the statement by the faction "Our Ukraine," which clearly understands that no constitutional changes are needed. If so, there is no need for changes to pension reform, to the Tax Code, to the budgetary process that has already begun. As a result, we condemn this practice of opposition, accuse it of what is happening today and of leaving behind the right to further organize the work of the Supreme Council in such a way as to pursue political reform so that appropriate legislative acts are adopted. And now I would ask most of Vladimir Mikhailovich to close the sessions of the Supreme Council today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m1.u29	In accordance with the Supreme Council’s Rules in view of the impossibility of continuing meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and in order not to be surprised by the Ukrainian people, I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. The faction leaders are requested to meet in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council.
