ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:52]] Registered -425 There are 425 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. The National Deputies who participated in the meeting, the Joint Meeting of the Supreme Council and representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers will now be approached. Dear colleagues, we continue our consideration of Tuesday’s schedule of meetings. A draft Law on the Placing of Certain Populations in Wallin and Plains Areas to the Zone of Guaranteeed Voluntary Displacement is under consideration. Reporter to the Deputy Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection against the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Alexander Grigorovich Kapitula. Please prepare Rudenka Hennadia for the report. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u2	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, there is a draft Act on the placement of a number of population sites in Volinsky and Ravens region into the zone of guaranteed voluntary eviction. Prepared by the government to implement the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Areas Which Was Radioactively Contaminated as a result of the Chernobyl Disaster. The bill is being prepared for the submission of the Wallin and the Plains District Councils and on the basis of expert conclusions on the radiological state of the areas of the population that are being transferred to the zone of guaranteed voluntary eviction. In the preparation of the bill, experts justified the possibility of transferring the population from the area of unconditionally mandatory relocation to the area of guaranteed voluntary eviction and the possibility of further population residence in those areas. In the event of the relocation of the above-mentioned population sites to the zone of voluntarily guaranteed evictions, conditions are created to finance the development of the manufacturing and social sphere, to contribute to the stability of the economic situation in the region, to the development of entrepreneurial activities, to the support of functional enterprises, facilities, and so on. Because today, according to current legislation, any economic activity in these areas is prohibited. Costs projected for evictions can be used to restore the region’s infrastructure, rehabilitate agricultural arrangements, repay social payments, and so forth. As of January 1, 2003, in the population of the Volin region, and 923 families live in Prisno, some 3,000 208 people, including 898 children. In the Plain region of the Great Lakes, the Great Carmel, And the Chess 349 families are 1 thousand 181 people, including 293 children. In order to fully relocate 1,272 families, taking into account the requirements of current legislation, it is necessary to provide for more than 250 million dollars in 2002 prices. At the request of the Ministry, an appropriate program was prepared and in accordance with this program in order to do so. normal living conditions, economic activity requires order of 250,000 dollars. In addition to the above-mentioned bill, it should be noted that the Ministry of Environment, natural resources, notes that the implementation of the bill does not pose an ecological danger. And according to the Ministry of Finance, the implementation of the bill will not lead to an increase in the expenditure of the state budget. Thus, it is reasonable to argue that the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is under consideration by a well-founded, scientifically balanced, consistent with the current legislation of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u3	Okay. Have a seat, please. We're following a reduced procedure. The head of the Committee on Environmental Policy will report. Committee secretary, right? Please, Yuri Petrovich. Reports the Secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Solomatin Yuri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u4	Honorary colleagues, the draft Ukrainian Law on the Placing of Certain Populations in Volinsk and Ravensk Areas to the Zone of Guaranteeed Voluntary Resettlement, prepared in accordance with the requirements of Ukraine's legal regime for the area affected by Radioactive Pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, and on the status and social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. The adoption of this law is a necessary step towards improving the efficiency of socio-economic and economic measures in radioactively contaminated areas, the progressive development of manufacturing and social spheres in these communities, the stability of the economic situation in the region, the development of entrepreneurial activities, the support of functional enterprises, etc. In the conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, comments were made, but the project was proposed to be accepted as a basis. The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government proposes that the bill be withdrawn. But in our committee's opinion, this proposal is not motivated enough. Taking into account the results of the expert evaluation, the economic rationale for the draft law, the Committee on Environmental Policy believes that the adoption of the bill will contribute to improving the effectiveness of the protection of the population through the introduction of a system of measures that meet today's living conditions in some communities in the Wallin and Plainlands, and invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support it and accept it as a basis for further committee development. According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance, the implementation of the bill will not lead to an increase in the expenditure of the state budget, as adequate funding for the rehabilitation of the territory is already provided in the 2003 State budget and is provided for by the Ministry's emergency plans. The committee proposes to support the bill. At the same time, we believe that there is a need for legislative guarantees for the population. territory, implementation of rehabilitation measures. So we suggest that when preparing the project for second reading, we take these specific measures into account. And the last. Many of our fellow deputies have repeatedly stressed the need to adopt a national rehabilitation program for radioactively contaminated areas. This law must be the first step in carrying out this program that must yet be adopted. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u5	Thank you. Please sit down, let's go to the discussion, and the word is given to Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich, the next Nigger who is not. Yeah, we've got to sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u6	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I was surprised to learn that there were proposals for the repeal of this bill. And I think that those proposals for the repeal of the draft law on the placement of some of the population areas of Volin and Plains into the zone of guaranteed voluntary eviction. So the idea that they should reject this bill is harmful to the state of Ukraine. What am I getting out of? I come from the fact that the villages of Clousia, the Plisses of the Manewecki region of Volin region, the Great Lakes, the Great Cheremil, the Rizke and the Shah of the Dubrovnik region of the Plains region have more protection for their populations. It has the right to leave irradiated areas if it is to see its future. And the state is obliged to help them do so. At the same time, according to article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the State has the opportunity to ensure that those who remain there are paid and compensated by legislation. That is, according to those citizens who, at the time of the change in the status of these settlements, will live in them, previous benefits and compensations will have to be saved. Because the Constitution does not allow for a narrowing of the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms. In view of the negative impact of radiation pollution on people’s health, the transfer to the third area of the areas where these settlements are located will guarantee that those wishing to relocate the right to health, once again, the constitutional right to health. I actually think that this law needs to be adopted in the first reading, and at the same session we need to adopt it in the second reading, maybe after four, it's very small, it's very small. If you take into account the amendments that the committee has proposed here. So, honourable national MPs, I'm paying attention to you, I'm paying attention to the government, let's move not people, not where we've been moving all the time, where there's a Chernobyl disaster area, but to move them, if we're spending state funds, where villages are empty today, and in Central Ukraine, and in the south of Ukraine, there we can save our Ukrainian genome today. I'm for adopting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u7	Instead of Vladimir Cherniak - Vladimir Yavorowski The next school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u8	Honorable Presidium, Your Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Voters Who Listen to Us Today! Today, there is an opportunity to return to that catastrophe, even though it is only a while, to the tragedy experienced by the Ukrainian nation, the Ukrainian people. And to record the fact that there is another tragedy along with the Chernobyl tragedy. It's a tragedy of oblivion. I remember the early 1990s when I was in charge of a permanent commission on Chernobyl when we adopted these laws that are still in force today. What was the enormous attention and power, and all the physical structures, and the local authority to the sharpness of the catastrophe that swept over our people's heads. Unfortunately, we must say that today it is almost all gone. I support this law and I will vote for it. And it's a good thing that we're complementing and expanding this area of affected people. But on the other hand, if I put my hand on my heart, I can say that we're just going to fill out a dozen more people who are going to go complaining about not being paid the benefits that are under the laws. I just got back from Kirovograd. At every turn, people come up and complain that they have been completely forgotten. The second problem we need to talk about today is the problem of pseudo-detectors. Today, there are so many pseudo-detectors that now there are so many more than those who have actually been through this Chernobyl hell. Every clerk who has a stamp today has access to the book of orders long ago made himself liquidator documents, shipping, must have been counted in his coupons, counted the money, and today he has this card. We were able to find the facts when, say, union workers, cultural unions the day they were resting on the Golden Sands, they wrote to themselves that they were in Chernobyl these days. Today, the Ukrainian economy, the Ukrainian budget, can't stand it. I'm addressing you, Your Honor, Deputy Minister of Emergency Situations, well, do something, clean up. Because today the poor driver, whose head had been pushed by a bottle of vodka and a dozen eggs and chased him there to Chernobyl, had no document because there was no order, nothing. Instead, every official today receives all the benefits. We have to think about it. And the last thing I wanted to say. Let's stop talking, it's unscientific, it's unscientific about eliminating the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Today, it is fair to talk about adapting the Ukrainian people to the conditions that we have today. Once again, we have to calculate very clearly when we make the budget, whether we have these benefits or not. The people grew weary of these paper benefits. Because of that, I'm calling you again. I will vote in favour of this law. But on the other hand, once again, I am absolutely convinced that we are filling an army of dissatisfied people who will write to us, MPs, these complaints, and we will not be able to help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u9	Andrew Schlell. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u10	The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. I'll tell you frankly, my dear colleagues, what is really necessary for those who have suffered the Chernobyl disaster, is that we will have sin before our constituents, before the Ukrainian people, and before God in the end. This law is made up of five lines that we want to discuss here. I don't think this law should be the subject of discussion, but it should be the pitiful situation in which people were affected by the Chernobyl disaster. This catastrophe really put a footprint not only on the regions we're talking about, but primarily on them. But we have to stress that, at this point, the state has virtually left Chernobyl and the Chernobyl disaster alone, which is its consequences, and everything that comes out of it. Of course, we can complain about the West, which does not finance overlaps, does not finance research into what is going on in Chernobyl. But let's think about who took the initiative and stopped the Chernobyl AES, and then began to demand that you give us the money for the sarcophagus, to close those holes in the budget that were formed as a result of the Chernobyl AES stop. Of course, it was a humane act, but every human act entails, not gratitude, but ingratitude. And just like that bill, if we accept it, and we accept it, I'm sure I urge you all to vote for it, the law, that is, this law will not solve the issue, it will only emphasize it. I didn't show in vain how small this law is, look at the colossal explanatory note, on the two pages of the small text. Explanatory note why we have to talk about guaranteed zones of voluntary eviction. This highlights how many evictions are taking place, how many laws have been passed - the status of social citizens, the legal regime of the territories that have been hit, and so on, the justification is to be the only one - is that we have to save the gene pool of the nation. And he's been blown up because of the Chernobyl disaster and he's still blown up because no serious action has been taken, we're just patching up, we're not sewing anything in this situation. We patch up the holes we have left behind, and we will be unable to handle the situation in a year or five. Now no expert can fully explain what is going on under the sarcophagus and what its fate is in the future. What's the fate of the overlap, how long does it last? So I think we already have to prepare a law in advance on how to protect the entire territory of Ukraine from the re-negrobile explosion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u11	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The word is given to Kuharchuku, the next to Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it's necessary to refer so clearly to this law. It's very bad that we're considering such a law under a reduced procedure, because there's a lot of questions. First of all, it comes from a population initiative that has suffered, or from an initiative of power? Because you know that in recent years there has been an increasing need to think about the need to reduce the Blackwater tragedy zone because there are no public funds. The other one. We also need to answer that question: What kind of debt for benefits and compensation is allowed in the Chernobyl area today? If we say that this will lead to the development of the village's infrastructure, we have to answer the specific questions: how many FAPs? Children's kindergartens have been built in the Dubrovnik region in recent years? And the facts say that half of them are closed. So what's that going to do? And you've heard from the deputy minister's report, which is all it takes to execute this program, $250,000. That's right. This is 120 dollars per capita in two areas. There's something we can do after the earth is restored, after the radiation levels are reduced, and so on. And what's more, you know, to move these settlements from one state to another, the payout is not 50 percent of the average wage, it's 40 percent. Let's think about it. It seems to me that this is the first step towards limiting radioactive pollution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u13	Yes, Yuri Solomatin, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u14	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy Environmental use and elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, it happened that in the morning I was unable to carry out the commission of my committee and declare a statement. I'll use the minutes I have to carry out this assignment. The statement by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster: "The situation that has arisen around the problems of overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster has long been of serious concern to us, and members of the committee have repeatedly stated this. Today, however, contrary to the recommendations of the participants in the parliamentary hearings "17th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster: the experience of overcoming" the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is actively addressing the question of dispersal of the system of comprehensive protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster in various ministries. There is a deliberate blurring of responsibility for the matter. In the face of the existing shortcomings in dealing with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the complexity and deterioration of the conditions of compensation and the granting of benefits, housing, health and health protection, it raises social tension among the affected population, which, in the course of political reform in the country and the electoral process, is, in our opinion, a serious political mistake by the government of Ukraine. Taking into account the recommendations of parliamentary hearings, the Committee refers to the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, shortly before the beginning of the new fiscal year, to decide on the establishment of the State Committee on the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, which would become the main unit of union in the state in the area of coping with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the resolution of the problems of the Chernobyl AES. The creation of such a government will enable the local executives, as before, to function in the system of local executives, as was the case with the independent central governments, as with the individual administrations, and in areas and cities of district subordination, which will be the main strands in dealing with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, which will certainly have positive consequences. These issues can be implemented within the limits of the existing border number of employees’ and maintenance costs of the Ministry of Labour, Administration, Reservoirship and Mesquikonkom. With a view to enhancing nuclear safety, ensuring reliable control over the exploitation of nuclear facilities, the committee also considers it appropriate to establish a State Committee for the Use of Atomic Energy. Thank you for your attention and please consider our application as a collective parliamentary request from our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, a review of the draft law on the placement of certain population areas in the Volin and Plains regions into the zone of guaranteed voluntary evictions has been completed. The decision will be made in accordance with the Rules, on the day of the vote. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Protection of Court Workers and Law Enforcement Authorities on Authorized Persons of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets is being announced for consideration. Reporter of the Head of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Market Oleg Mikolaiovich Mozgovy Malinovsky Alexi Petrovich will be the narrator. Please be prepared, Alexi Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Ukraine's draft law on the introduction of additions to the Ukrainian Act on State Protection of Workers of the Court and Law Enforcement Authorities has been prepared by the Government in accordance with the Ukrainian President's decree on additional measures for the development of the Ukrainian stock market. One of the priorities of the public commission's activities from securities and stock market is to create conditions for a favourable legal climate for the functioning of the stock market by protecting rights from the legitimate interests of investors, preventing infringements on the market of securities, and if these offences are detected by prompt, comprehensive investigation and development of laws that would not allow them to arise. Is There a God Who Cares About You? Under the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of the market in securities of Ukraine, authorized members of the commission are required to review, within the limits of the authority given, the offences of the law in force, and in the event of the detection of offences of the law concerning securities, the application of sanctions. The Commissioners responsible for the commission's functions are the chairman of the commission, the six members of the commission and the 26 heads of the State Commission's regional administrations from the securities. In carrying out the checks of the stock market participants by authorized persons on compliance with the requirements of effective legislation, violations of the illegal transfer of ownership rights, infringements of professional market participants of securities, violations containing criminal offences for which criminality is envisaged and by which materials are sent to law enforcement authorities are carried out. I'm familiar with it. A thousand 217 checks and audits were carried out by the State Securities and Stock Market Commission in 2002, and the registration of stock companies in 307 stock companies, 507 checks were carried out in a non-planned manner, of which 110 checks were made by the Public Prosecutor’s Office’s Office, 76 branches, 49 Security Services. As a result of the inspections conducted in 2002, 6,000 139 acts of infringements on the market of securities were found in the course of the inspections, which were followed up and dealt with in the case of offences and the appropriate sanctions provided for in the legislation. In addition, as a result of the audit activities, 5,000,669 were made mandatory for the enforcement of orders to remedy detected infringements of the stock market. Applying sanctions to violators by authorized individuals always has negative consequences for them, such as the financial way of imposing a fine. The amount of fines paid last year amounted to 3 million,338 thousand,583 bracelets, not being able to engage in professional activities in the securities market by cancelling licences, restricting property rights by stopping the circulation of securities. Thus, the exercise by authorized individuals of the commission of the above - mentioned responsibilities to control market participants of securities is linked to the risk to them and their relatives, lives, health, property, housing. The implementation of this bill requires some material costs at the expense of the State budget, which can be covered by fines, which under the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the securities market are imposed on authorized persons of the commission and are charged to the State budget. The establishment of a system of special measures for the protection of authorized persons by the commission from obstructing the performance of their duties will ensure that authorized persons are given the opportunity of a less risky commission and their loved ones to make objective and balanced decisions as a result of the delinquency proceedings. Thus, these changes to the law will serve to improve the legal, economic and organisational principles of the State regulation of the Funding Market in Ukraine and then accelerate economic reforms, increase the role of the Funding Market in the process of investing in Ukraine's economy. It should also be noted that the Act on State Protection of Workers of the Court and Law Enforcement Authorities is already extended to the supervisory body of the executive branch: the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, which, like the commission, is directly involved in the handling of cases in all institutions, in conducting investigations into offences. Ukraine's draft Act on Amendments, Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on State Protection of Workers of the Court and Law Enforcement Authorities is in agreement with all interested authorities, the head of the Supreme Council Scientific and Expert Authority and the Professional Committee. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u17	Thank you. Sit down, Oleg Mikolaiovich. Please, Alexi Petrovich Malinowski, a member of the Committee on Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u18	Alexei Malinowski, Socialist faction, Cherkaschina Dear colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement at its session has considered Bill 2423 on Amendments to the Law on State Protection of Judicial and Law Enforcement Officials. The bill proposes to amend the law in order to include persons subject to State protection, relevant authorized persons of the State Commission from securities and the Ukrainian Stock Market. The committee supports this bill and asks the deputies to vote for it in the first reading. I would just like to warn all of us who are interested in this bill, we don't have to -- I just urge everyone -- confuse the situation in the Fund market with those workers who work in this fund market. Indeed, they demand and need immediate State protection. The committee's offering to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, report, report completed. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, what are we going to do with this bill? Now, let's say that the KLA protects them, then the State Property Fund, and let's write everybody else down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u20	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I just swear that you've already begun to understand the legislation, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, as Head of the Supreme Council. Because it's very serious. The point is that this law, on the one hand, is needed, and on the other hand, it's not going to be protected by 32 people. Otherwise, for 32 persons, it does not simply have meaning. There was a case of the murder of Anatolia Romashka, a pressure exerted on the commission staff. But is there no pressure on Ukraine’s national deputies? You don't know that!? Don't you know that to the President?? Every day and several times a day! Is there no pressure on their families?? Is there no pressure on the members of the Board of Auditors?? Don't they make them copy acts?? Look, after Odessa, there's a full-blown review of the city where there was a miscong check! City Council. See how other things are copied. And how they're threatened and how they're bought and how everything else is done. So this law, if it is to be adopted and distributed to the State Commission of Securities, should also be distributed to representatives of the State Property Fund, and to many, many of the controlling authorities and authorities. And it's going to be a sanepidemstation, and there are still very serious questions, and it's going to be a lot of organs and services that need to be done. Because we cannot forget that the law provides for the state regulation of the securities market in Ukraine, where the employees of the regional offices will be tested by the head of the relevant territorial authority of the commission and pressured by them. How will you protect yourself? No way. Let's just protect the leadership. Therefore, it may be necessary to talk today about the State’s protection of the people of Ukraine, and there is no such thing. If that is not the case, including all law enforcement agencies in turn is simply not serious in terms of legislative technology and constitutional requirements for equality of rights before the law. As to what is specific in the head of the commission, in the substitutes who make the most serious decisions, maybe they need to be included here, and it's endlessly impossible to expand this circle, we're expanding them by increasing the number of judges, the number of other law enforcement personnel. And today these bills will be. That's why I'd like us to make that decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u21	Taras Blackwall, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I, like my previous speaker, colleague Carmazin, have a little bit of a surprise about this idea of how Kabmin, in his bill. Let us begin with the specific title of the very basic law and the structure that is proposed to be introduced as one of the subjects, the subject matter of the law, in fact, we are essentially anchored under it as a legal guardian, if you will excuse me, or as a judicial authority. A little bit, let's respond adequately to these things. Comparable individuals should still be considered in another appropriate law. With regard to this committee of the Funding Market. As we've already said, we have no less loaded categories, I don't know how the stock market is, but I can give you an example of an inspector killed in Crimea by an energy inspector when in the center of Ukraine, there was a water inspector killed near Kiev. When they kill people who are involved in nature conservation, ecology, any other issue. Two then, indeed, on all of us to spread what it is for such a unique, special separation of one structure. When it comes to the fact that some of the people in this structure are conducting serious investigations that may threaten their lives. In this case, special decisions can be made to secure protection during these investigations. In an extreme case, it may be considered that if there is a service that conducts an investigation, there are members of that service who are directly linked to it. [[I'll be right back.]] Investigating, introducing a system of State protection and protection. Although this is not logical enough in our current situation in Ukraine. Moreover, the laws on state protection in Ukraine are being implemented in a very and very specific way. I'll give you an example, literally, from the day before yesterday, when on Sunday 11 national deputies, who were so actively mentioned today, Nestor Shufrich, were put under very severe threat, under threat of criminality, in areas where local police had information that they were supposedly replaced, and no one even. report this to the deputies within an hour and a half. So let's start with the questions that are already provided for in the laws. And now the last item is important to me. We're building a state of law where everything is decided through a court of law, are we going to be able to investigate and punish each and every organization completely? If the Stock Market Commission finds a violation, it predicts that it can check these cases, but the sanctions should eventually be taken by the court. And I think we should go back to this point in the future, and then we're going to have, really, a direction to build a state. And even through these additional escape routes, the status of a police state through these verifiable, controlling service organizations, I'm sure you shouldn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u23	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u24	Thank you. I would like to stress, of course, what is needed to protect all government officials, officials, but all of this needs to be done to the extent possible. I represent the committee that dealt with this issue at the meeting. We supported it, but you know, I've been underscoring it, and now there's a warning. Of course, we can also support it in the session room to protect stock market representatives. But then let us protect all people whose work involves at least a minimal risk. Imagine, an example has already been given: how do those who go to download data from counters in people who have no ability to pay for anything, even to think about paying for the services they provide? How do they establish themselves? So let's imagine, here comes the Berkut, there comes a special task force called Berkut, and there comes a worker who's going to take pictures of the counters. How will it feel to have someone to pay for it? So now it's paying not only for the power grid that gave it to her, but also for the people who protect the person who takes the pictures. So this is not an absurd situation. Of course, every employee must be protected. A factory worker has to be protected from the removal of a directorate, a higher-school employee has to be protected from the abolition of his superiors, but any other employee who advocates state interests has to be protected from when he does. Protecting public interests puts his life at risk. I understand the initiative. I see even here the decision of the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council to support the bill in the first reading may be taken as a basis. I know he'll get through the session room easily. But what I'm stressing is that we don't have the right of the legislative body to turn into structures that serve one or the other functions. We don't have the right right right now at this point to say yes, we can't fail to vote or support this bill, because that's what we're going to make people's lives. How many times have people been subjected? And that's what the post-factum was all about. We just can't and we don't have the right to prove it. Let's protect everyone: tax inspectors, let's protect the employees of the paradise society and so on -- protect everyone, because they're all under the press, the people, the people, because the people aren't satisfied with the existing state, they're not satisfied with the power, as much as they are. This regime would not be protected by authority. You can't protect yourself from discontent. Dissatisfaction must be overcome by building a normal civilised state. I'm here to see you. Just understand, similar bills are at the moment putting the Supreme Council in an awkward position. Without your protection, we cannot ask you later about your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Protection of Workers of the Court and Law Enforcement Authorities. [[concerning authorized persons of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market]] Finishing. Decisions will be made taking into account the discussion on the day of the vote. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on responsibility for breaches of administrative supervision is being announced for consideration. The reporter is the first Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Interior Mikhailo Vasilovich Kornienko. Prepare the head of the Committee, Vladimir Romanovich Moisik, for a report. Please be very quiet, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u26	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on responsibility for violations of administrative supervision. The bill is designed to strengthen control and prevent the commission of crimes by persons under administrative supervision and enforcement of the Ukrainian Criminal Code and the Ukrainian Code on Administration of Violations in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Supervision of Persons Released from Places of Will. For those with administrative oversight at places of deprivation, it is usually a person with considerable criminal experience. And during the course of the punishment, they stubbornly refused to stand in the way of correction and remained dangerous to society. Last year. Almost 10,000 such persons have been released from prison. Four and a half thousand people this year. The practice shows that up to 12 percent of these people do not arrive at a specific place of residence. These individuals do not take charge of internal affairs and often continue to engage in criminal activities through the regions of the nations. The year 2002 was earlier. 62,000 crimes were committed by persons. In this year, almost 30,000 crimes make up 18 percent of all crimes committed. The procedure for establishing and exercising administrative oversight is governed by the Ukrainian law on administrative supervision of persons released from places of disqualification. Article 9 of this Law stipulates that the person for whom administrative supervision has been established, after being released from their places of deprivation, is obliged to arrive at her chosen place of residence in a defined administrative term and to register in the internal affairs body. In article 395 of the Criminal Code, there is no responsibility for evading registration. In this regard, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine proposes that this article of the Criminal Code be completed, which will criminalize the timely registration of internal affairs. For the same reasons, it is proposed to amend article 187 of the Administrative Code by establishing responsibility for a malicious, systematic violation of the rules of administrative review, as provided for in article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Administering Persons Released from places of disqualification. The analysis shows that, in the absence of this rule, there is no effective influence on those who abuse administrative oversight. This is what law - enforcement practices say. Over the past year, nearly 40,000 people were drawn to administrative responsibility for violating the rules of administrative oversight, this year 22 thousand. At the same time, nearly a third of the executives were drawn to administrative responsibility more than twice a year. And 357 people seven or more times. Therefore, we are invited to complete Article 187 of the Amending Directive with a second part, strengthening our responsibility for the malicious violation of administrative oversight rules, including the administration of administrative arrest. Making the proposed changes will have a positive impact on the prevention of recidivism and will be a further step in improving the legal basis, ensuring public security in the state. The adoption of the project does not require additional financial costs from the State budget. Please support this bill and accept it as the basis for the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u27	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u28	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The committee supports the proposed bill and notes that the amendment to article 395 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code differentiates the criminal and administrative responsibility associated with the administrative supervision of persons released from places of deprivation of liberty. With the adoption of this law, if it is accepted, only persons will be brought to criminal responsibility for the commission of three violations: the arbitrary abandonment of the place of residence of a person under supervision; the absence of residence or arrival at a place of residence; and the non-registration of internal affairs. So the law is necessary and it brings the Criminal Code into line with the Law on Administering Persons Released from Places of Will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u29	Vladimir Romanovich, thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. On the board, please, the names of the national MPs who signed up. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin opens the debate. Prepare Tarasa Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u30	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I again address Prime Minister Yanukovic of Ukraine. Mr. Janukovic, if you ever hear me, will you be told that this is Karmazin and he's asking questions about an incomplete approach to legislative changes. Again today you propose to make changes to just one article of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and everything. Is that a complex approach?Oh, my God! I do not think that we can continue to be distracted by the legal age of the legislators. We're talking about systematization, codification of all existing legislation. I understand that this is not the fault of the Deputy Secretary of State, Mr. Korneyenka, or his fault, he will report the law only to the one he thinks is necessary to support the government's decision, but the complexity of approaches is a matter of government. That's why we're in a state of turmoil that doesn't have a comprehensive approach at all. This bill -- amending some of the legislative acts on responsibility for breach of administrative supervision -- is generally worthy of support, since it is being discussed today. But I think we need to draw your attention to the conflict that is between the provisions of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Responsibility. What do I mean? Article 395 of Ukraine’s Criminal Code contains the concept of violating administrative oversight rules for which administrative responsibility is established. It is set out in article 187 of the Code on Administrative Offences. So today, there is a situation where, in the same action, there is: the arbitrary abandonment of a person's place of residence with the aim of avoiding administrative supervision, not arriving without valid reasons to the chosen place of residence, not registering in internal affairs -- at the same time, there is a composition of both criminal and criminal offences, and there is a pattern of administrative delinquency. What can you do about it? Here we have to reconcile these positions and now, by adopting the bill as the basis for the first reading, further work on it, in order to clear up the Code of Administrative Offences, where we completely rule out the possible commissions that are now there. No effective influence on those who have been released from places of deprivation of liberty, other than the establishment of administrative oversight, has yet been invented in the world. So I think the law needs to be adopted, but we need to work in the same direction so that there are no collisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u31	Taras Cranville, faction of our Ukraine. Andrew School will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u32	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. You know, it's a typical history with government bills again. I sometimes get the feeling that there's even one bill working on two experts who don't even look at the final text of the law when the right hand doesn't know what the left hand is doing. Two codes. One bill proposes to amend these two codes. I still understand when some amendments can be made in a large amount of legislation, not taking into account problems that may arise in other laws. When a small text actually creates both a colossal and complete discrepancy and punishment, and the inadequacy is absolute in the formulations, including. The wording that goes to article 395 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine is sufficiently comprehensive, normally written as I am, it deserves attention. Why don't you write the same wording for article 187 of the Ukrainian Administrative Code and why don't you define in the article of the Criminal Code at least one item to determine why these actions should be viewed as a criminal responsibility rather than an administrative one? To avoid volunteering anyone who has the opportunity to do so will determine for themselves whether a person should be arrested for six months, whether to give a fine there, there are three untaxed minimums. I'm sorry, it's really too much inadequacy and such things shouldn't go away. I understand that there really must be supervision, really the only normal way for the law to be voted on. But I'm also asking here, the law is very short and simple, and so there might be a temptation to vote immediately in general. I would like to vote in the first reading so that we can still get those colossals back to the second reading. And the ministry and the Kabmin, I'm asking you very much, for the next few years, to be a little more professional. Such savage non-professionalism is impressive, and it basically offends the MPs. And a little bit more notice, when we talk about responsibility for breach of administrative supervision, we still have to take into account its features of possible force majeure. When a person was unable to come, he could not register, or the relevant internal affairs authorities deliberately interfered with his registration or markings in order to punish him for a misdemeanour. Those things need to be marked because otherwise we will walk again without guilt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u33	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Get ready for a non-Cyprus.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u34	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Ukrainian National Assembly I would, of course, like to point out that the bill was discussed on the committee, and I made a warning not to this particular bill, but to the exercise of administrative oversight in general. Because you know, we always have a stick with two ends. When it is necessary not to exercise administrative oversight, it is not carried out. In particular, the process was well - known, it was an action, that is, when two employees of the former EES were not released. There was even a reference, Timoshenko had a reference written that he was in Dnipropetrovsk for registration. And nobody checked in he arrived at that Dnipropetrovsk, checked in, though the document was, and he didn't even get out of his cell, he was moved from one, meant the camera, to the other. And no one checked, no one asked who made a similar document, who saw it, who signed it eventually, because a normal person wouldn't sign that she went to Dnipropetrovsk, staying in prison. So all these improvements are somehow believed in the future, perhaps necessary, because in today’s circumstances they do not use what they are. And I'm going to stress that there's a difference in article 395. non-registration of internal affairs. So this is about voluntary or forced registration in one organ or another. Of course, you have to register, but again, I would like to stress: arrest, six months, I understand that you have to force a person to register, because you won't register, and you'll get the deadline again, but considering that your previous credits to this criminal, he may accordingly be scared or scared. But believe me, it's going to affect people who don't have a criminal record, because those who have a criminal record and don't want to register, it's going to be very hard to find them. This is more about the formal side of the matter. So I'm stressing that these kinds of bills, they come out of some kind of need: they didn't work in two. At the age of three, at twenty, in forty cases, you have to go through the registration process, and you are ready to amend the two serious, powerful laws of Ukraine. Well, I'd like the Supreme Council not to have to consider similar, sometimes not entirely adequate bills. We support it, and I said the same thing on the committee. What you're going to have to support, because once again this sign is posted, you're not going to support it, so you're going to be against the crime being caught and brought to criminal liability. But in fact, the very process of looking at it, it's still the survival of the Soviet Union, and I'm stressing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u35	Yes, Mikhail Vasilovich Kornienko, your summary, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u36	I think, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we need to uphold this law. I think all those who have spoken have expressed their support. Well, what was the ECJ does not have anything to do with the law. I would like to support him on Thursday’s first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u37	Please, please, I've been announcing you. I'm just sorry, I forgot. You'll be out of town? Vladimir Nechiporuk, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u38	Vladimir Nechiporuk, 194th constituency, Hmelničina. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear friends! Ukraine's draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on liability for violations of administrative supervision was designed to have administrative effect on persons released from places of deprivation of liberty. to prevent them from committing re-criminal crimes and to increase administrative responsibility for malicious violation of the rules of administration. In support of the bill as a whole, I consider it necessary to draw attention to the existing conflict between the criminal and administrative provisions of the law on liability for violations of the rules of administrative review, which may lead to difficulties in applying to the guilty person of a particular law. I'm not going to keep talking, I'm going to take time, I'm just going to say one thing that the way out of this college is to adopt and support this law. It's better that there's an administrative responsibility than criminal responsibility. Therefore, I propose that the bill be adopted as a basis for the first reading with further elaboration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on responsibility for violations of administrative supervision has been completed. We'll make a decision on Thursday. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, equine and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products is under consideration. [[concerning the clarification of individual positions]] Reporter: First Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking Cuzko Vasil Petrovich. Please, Vasil Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u40	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I understand that in this room there is often a bill on excise duties, the trafficking of alcohol, alcohol and other tax goods. However, this bill needs to be considered and adopted on first reading so that we can secure the income of the budget in 2004. I would like to inform you that, after we adopted the amendments to these laws in the autumn, today, in May, the growth in the production of liquor and water products is almost 16 per cent, with 11 per cent wine. This suggests that we are still able to get these industries out of the shadows or those productions. This bill is, submitted by a group of people's deputies, in fact, an agreed bill with the Government, and it is why it is agreed, because it has swallowed three government bills, which have been passed pursuant to the President's Order on Alcohol Monopoly, which was passed in December, which defines: what are excise warehouses, such as the registration of vagrancy proceedings and so on. The joint working group, chaired by First Deputy Prime Minister Nikolay Janović Azarov and Chairman of the Committee on Financial and Banking Affairs, identified that the draft law needed to be considered as one of the bills necessary for the establishment of the 2004 budget. Therefore, his name is changed to second reading. This will be the Act on Amendments to Certain Laws, which deals specifically with the rules on the sale of alcoholic beverages and particulars, which address the rules that I have already called: the accounting of productions takes into account certain issues of licensing regulations and the clarifications on particular goods. That is to say, there are actually 3 bills. I will conclude my report on this. It's proposed. The bill was considered by the Committee. It is proposed that we adopt it on first reading and next Thursday that we accept it on second reading. We also took into account in the first reading the moment that we considered. For example, a colleague of Noshchenko made an amendment so that we could change the excise duty rates to fruit-flavored wines. In fact, in the past, when we were adopting the budget, we didn't take into account the moment, well, so arithmetical or technical that we increased the alcohol from 2 bracelets to 16 bracelets of excise duty and increased it to ourselves. There's been a double Excise. Therefore, the second reading should take these points into account and correct them. Otherwise, we will stop the production of these products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u41	Thank you, too, Vasil Petrovich. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Please state on the table the names of the national deputies who have been registered for the discussion. We do. It's down to 5, it's down to 4. Please, Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin has a word from the faction "Our Ukraine." Yuri Solomatin to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u42	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, whether this law should be passed or not. The first question I'm going to answer is: I want to thank the people's deputies both Tzusko and Kozakowa, the Stock Exchange, for making changes to this law. But it's called what it is now, it can't exist. So we need to adopt a law and write about making changes to some of Ukraine’s laws. and predict the object of regulation itself. Because we already have a lot of rubber laws where we write "making changes to some laws," and we don't specify them. And it's confusing today, and even students are laughing at our formulations. The second question. You can see that Tsushkov has already agreed to this. The second question that I see as the need to predict here is not just to ask the owners to be licensed to those who have rooms at the moment of applying for license and equipment, but to document ownership of premises and equipment. Today I have a call from the Cherkas region about what is happening there, how it is captured by various clans of alcohol and what is being done there. And there's neither the Security Service nor the D.A., there's nothing, there's nothing for each other, there's for the other. So there's a lot of things to kill there right now. Next. It is suggested that a ban be imposed on the inclusion of tobacco products in military rations. And I think that's the right thing to do, we have to fight tobacco around where we can. And it's better for our children to give them, to give them either chocolate or money, but not to put them into tobacco addiction. I think this law is going to hit the shadow traffic seriously. But only in one case will he strike when today both the President and the government cover up the sources of alcohol. Today they recognize that everyone who works in this liquor industry, that they work 7-8 months in one scheme. And then the pattern changes. The task of this law, which introduced Tsuko, Puzakov, Borzih, is to strike this shadow. I have a very questionable name that's been introduced among the authors, which is different from the fact that they're doing shadow sales. I don't call that last name right now, it's a matter for the Security Service, the Tax Administration, because there's no more than 200 million dollars in taxes there. Introducing the law and not paying taxes for 200 million grand, there's no such person in the room right now, it's got to be a shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u43	You've already taken over a lot, 30 seconds. Yuri Solomatin. Get ready for Borzih. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u44	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Indeed, we can agree that the title of this law does not correspond to its internal contents. Sadly, this is often the case in our legislative practice. And that's why the famous jester taught us, "Look at the roots." And in order to get to that root, we need to get to the bottom of it, and to get to the bottom of it, we need to get to the bottom of every bill. In this case, from my point of view, the main thing is that this bill is trying to sort out licenses for these particular types of activities and somehow give publicity and publicity to these activities. This problem is not just about the production of cognac, fruit and alcohol and tobacco products, it's about any kind of activity in the drug use and extraction of oil and gas from the naphtha. So what I want to stress is that this is exactly what we're talking about -- publicity and publicity -- which is, above all, the rationale and clarity in giving these licenses. So I think this law is just a law of good intentions. But what it offers will not allow for transparency, the truthfulness of licensing for the activities involved. And finally, about the sources of alcohol coming in to make it happen. It is difficult to say, for anyone who knows the problem and who listens to the question is clearly the source and the source. And the main source of profit is these other sources. And if we don't handle this, this law will once again be a certain piece of paper to cover up such illegal shadowy activities. In my opinion, such a law does not solve the tasks defined in its name. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u45	Thank you. So you're against this law, right? Alexander Ivanovich Borzich, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party, please. Get ready for Nightshade.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u46	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Borzih, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Following the adoption in May of this year of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2003 in part of the increase in excise duty rates on certain types of alcoholic beverages and following the submission in June of the bill to the Supreme Council, which we are currently considering, and a large number of appeals from wine workers have been made to the Supreme Council and to the Agrarian faction requesting a review of the set and proposed rates of the said congregation. Experts believe that raising the rates on wine grapes and alcohol used for wine production is an economically unwarranted and undervalued step, and this will contribute to favouring the internal market for imported wines and the removal of domestic wines with adverse effects on the industry. Estimates show that applying predicted rates will lead to an increase of 150 - 170 percent and 120 percent on the table. This, along with the impossibility of primary companies to pay for alcohol for 180 days as the output goes on during the year, can lead to a substantial reduction in the volume of fixed wine production, which amounts to 60 percent of the total amount of wine production to bankruptcy and bankruptcy. During this time, experts from the Minagropolitics and other interested authorities have further worked on the bill, and there is this proposal: to adopt the bill as a basis. When preparing him for his second reading, consider making changes regarding, first, the inadequacy of triple taxation of grapes. It really doesn't make sense here. When the wine is taxed three times and the vodka is taxed only once. Next, the issue of the removal of taxation from wine products, by setting a zero rate on them, is that they are raw materials for the production of finished undertaxation products. Consider once again the proposal to set real prices for businesses of the excise congregation at dessert tables and fortified wines, as well as the issue of lowering the rates of excise duty on the vermouth and fruity wines in order to give them competitiveness in the internal market. I think we should weigh these positions because they depend on the continued existence and development of the wine industry, which has only begun to regenerate in recent years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u47	Thank you, too. Mikola Nightshenko. So we have two pros, one against, and now we're going to figure it out by listening to our colleague's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u48	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the distinguished, distinguished voters! There's a good thing when we vote bills with packets. That's the result that we get when we vote. But this increases the error that is sometimes made by decisions that, when introduced into the basic law, shed tears because they stop as a result of decisions made by individual productions. I specifically referred to this bill as my last name and said that, in fact, the bill was introduced by me, because when we accepted the budget changes, we raised the excise duty rates on wine-bearing domestic production exactly twice, twice and half, twice as much as the holiday price for this type of product. If we take the dynamics of what is happening in Ukraine about the fact that for two years in a row we are implementing the government's programme of support for grapes and gardening and for these purposes in the budget, the State budget provides for about 100 million dollars a year, then a legitimate question arises. Where will this produced domestic produce go? That's why I'm supporting the bill in this part of the bill, which I've already called to return the excise duty rate of the wine-producing assembly to at least one bracelet per liter, which will allow market methods to support the Ukrainian producer and not allow this production to stop. Now it's about coming to the budget. Unless this change is made, practically from this type of tax, this type of excise tax will stop and the enterprises will stop completely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u49	Thank you. So microphone, please, Sergey Chevchuk. The faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u50	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues. The purpose of the law has been understood and is very important and important to our nation. The form of a solution to this goal raises some doubts. First of all, the authors have determined that this bill is a priority in relation to others and that it changes to the six other legislative acts that are in force today. I'm sure the authors of these six pieces of legislation believe that their bill is not secondary to what we're currently looking at. In addition, there is a very large circle of questions that the authors of this bill are concerned with. It's not just about the production of alcohol, I don't want to repeat the opinion of agrarians who have expressed a lot of doubts, it's about, let's say, things like the proposal to double the rates of excise duty on gasoline and motor mixes. What will be the result, we can only guess. Therefore, there is a need for further reasoning and clear calculations of the consequences of this introduction. As for the army rations, we all do not want our military service to have nicotine intoxication, but at the same time. This leads to a reduction in the military's ration. Let's think about how to replace it with something else, because this is a one-sided approach. There are also many issues related to external economic affairs, aspects that can be argued by a number of countries, including our neighbors. So this bill contains a lot of positive, but at least there are risks. And risks in such areas as the production of alcoholic beverages or tobacco products are calculated in a multimillion - dollar number. That's why we think that this bill needs work, and we're going to be against it in such a hasty regime -- one Thursday in the first reading, the next Thursday in the second reading -- being accepted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u51	Please, what does the Ministry think about this, and more specifically, the Cabinet of Ministers? Yuri Yakovich Luzan. And then you'll sum it up, Vladimir Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u52	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The changes proposed by the people's deputies to the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, horse and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products, according to our estimates, are essentially complementary to the law in force and will help to better regulate the market for alcohol and tobacco. Very many positive changes are proposed. And I'm going to point out that the government's proposals to work on this bill were largely taken into account. Yet, in our view, it is necessary to clarify the value of the licenses, the excise congregations, which are also expressed by the national deputy, Borgich Alexander Ivanovich, and other deputies. And I think that these issues need to be further worked out. At the same time, the Cabinet of Ministers believes that the bill in the first reading should be adopted and continued to work on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u53	Thank you. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, microphone, please. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u54	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, in my view, the adoption of this law will greatly help to bring the economy out of the shadows, at least in its sector, such as the production and circulation of ethyl alcohol, cognac and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. It's a complex character, it changes to about six laws, which will generally be difficult to do, and it'll have to be written more and more clearly in the preparation of the law for the second reading. But my main point is to the next. Indeed, what are the risks of adopting this law, primarily financial ones. I'm for lowering, of course, tariffs. And that's right, and that's the right way. However, calculations are needed that may be lost to the budget and that may come into the budget in connection with the exit of the economy from the shadow. And have the right balance. Then, when these calculations are made, we can vote willfully for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, a review of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Regulations for the Production and around of Ethylene, Horsey and Fruity, Alcoholic and Tobacco Products has been completed with regard to the clarification of individual provisions. Decisions will be made taking into account the discussion on the day of the vote. We still have seven projects to consider before the end. I would ask you to work very effectively for us, dear colleagues. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian customs tariff on import duties and imported and façaded tea is being announced for consideration. Reporter, National Deputy of Ukraine Pisarenko Anatoly Grigorovich, to prepare Vasil Petrovich Zushko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u56	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, the draft Law 2325 that you have before you aims to protect domestic tea producers and at the same time to increase the income of the State budget. The project proposes to increase the import duty on leaf tea distributed outside Ukraine from 0.4 euros to 1 kg. It is also proposed to detail the relevant classification codes in order to ensure that tea is distributed in disposable de-filters. importers separate from leafy tea. A charge of Euro2 per kilogram is planned for tea in the filter packets. At the same time, it is proposed to leave the import duty on raw tea, i.e. raw materials, at zero levels. The current proposed measures are primarily driven by the need to protect the domestic producer from the expansion of imports. As a result, almost as much imported and façade tea as domestic tea has been imported into our country in the past 2002. Clearly, the increase in import duty from 0.2 to 0.4 in January 2002 was not sufficient. Ukrainian forces are relaxing, our consumer is financing foreign labour. Imports more than 70 per cent of tea consumed. It's a very large figure. When the import duty is increased, the Ukrainian producer will be able to quickly fill the market in quality domestic products. Well, the expansion of production will automatically create jobs, increase the income part of the budget. The amount of the tea market in Ukraine is 150 million dollars, you realize it's a decent figure. We are, in principle, financing foreign labour today. It is important that, despite planning to reduce the volume of tea, the income from the import duty on tea will increase by about 30 to 40 per cent since imports of expensive foreign tea varieties will not decrease once new rates are introduced. After the adoption of the bill, additional incentives for development will be given to the industries of production, accompanied by the teamaking industry, such as paper, thread, wire and so on. As we calculated the new rates of duty, we had two factors: first, the duty should be to protect the Ukrainian producer as much as possible, so the new amount of duty was calculated to increase the retail price of the imported tea by 10-15 per cent. On the other hand, the commitments made by Ukraine during the WTO accession process have been taken into account. According to them, the duty on imported tea cannot exceed 20 per cent of its customs value. Using the minimum recommended prices available for imported tea, we have received the equivalent of the above 20 per cent in cash. Russia has taken such a step earlier this year. This move by our neighbours has already led to more than $30 million being invested in the Russian tea industry since the beginning of the year. Foreign companies have benefited from transferring production to the country of consumption. I will note that the domestic consumer will not be harmed by the increase in import duties. The price increase of 50 grams of imported tea will be about 25-30, not too heavy for the consumer who prefers the import product because of the habit. All others will have an incentive to switch to native tea, whose aesthetic tastes have recently reached the world level. The façade usually takes place on import equipment and the purchase of raw materials takes place on the same auctions where tea is purchased by leading firms and foreign producers. The price of a national hour under this law will be reduced. In conclusion, this project is supported in principle by the Scientific and Expert Office, the Professional Committee on Finance and Banking, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Customs, the Tariff Council at Kabmin, the Ministry of Agriculture Policy, the Minfin and other agencies. Therefore, in view of the above, I ask the people's deputies to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u57	Thank you, Anatoly Grigorovich. Have a seat, please. Vasil Petrovich Cuzko, First Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u58	Dear colleagues! The Committee has considered the bill, supported it in its first reading, and the substance of the law has been reported to you by the author. And I looked at the Customs Council, and I supported it. It is proposed that it be voted on first reading. That's all right, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u59	Thank you, Vasil Petrovich. Let's move on to the discussion. Two national deputies were registered: Carmazin and Kalinchuk. Yuri Anatolyevich, please. To prepare Vasil Calinchuk. I would ask, if possible, for an example of Vasil Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u60	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I want to tell you that the proposed bill is very interesting because we have four tea factories. One of them in Odessa is stopped because of the murder and failure of Director General Billows. So far, no murder has been solved. Even though he was killed by the head of one of the party’s district organizations. And this is where the factory is today. There's a factory. So only three factories work, two in Kiev, one in Kharkiv. Let's look at the numbers. 2002 Ukraine uses 24,000 tons of tea. And in Ukraine, 8,000 tons are being distributed. So 18,000 tons -- two thirds go abroad. What a hard job! Couldn't we have loaded our employees? In Ukraine, here in Odessa, Kiev, in Kharkiv, where that Ahmat tea is made, we couldn't do it? They could have done it. We're being told, and the findings of the Scientific and Experimental Department say that it's likely to grow into smuggling. So is this our question, the legislators, that will grow up to be smuggling? This is a matter of law enforcement. And maybe it will grow, and now it's about a thousand tons -- a thousand tons! - it's not a joke. I even asked for Lipton's tea and it's fake. We've had enough! I looked at how much it would cost a private consumer, a Ukrainian citizen, if we were to raise it, and it would have to be raised, customs. Russia did the right thing when it introduced 200 percent. What's going to happen? Will people's spending on tea be increased? Yes, there will be costs. How much? Zero is six percent of the average wage, that is, not much. But how much does the budget get? 20 to 25 million dollars a year. That's why I'm in favour of this law, and I'm out of the question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u61	Basil Calinchuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u62	Kalinczuk, Odiščina, faction of the Agar Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill, prepared by the Ukrainian National MP Pisarenko, aims to protect the native fascicles of tea by introducing a higher moment for tea imported into Ukraine in a fascicle form. Of course, this will contribute to the development of domestic tea production, ensure that more revenue is made available to all levels of budgets, and create new jobs. A native consumer will not suffer because the quality of the tea distributed in and outside Ukraine is not different, as the raw material is the same. Like Yuri Anatolyovich, I will set an example for Odessa. Odessa tea is a modern, automated, classic tea company equipped with high-product technology and skilled personnel capable of producing and releasing in a year up to 10,000 tons of certified tea of various varieties in any package from one and a half to two hundred grams. In fact, the factory in its time provided Ukraine, Belarus, and the Baltic Sea. The import of tea, which now works, does not provide effective protection for the domestic producer, because about half the fascia tea comes from abroad, which stimulates foreign labour, polygraph production and production of other materials. At the same time, the country’s power is eased. It is estimated that almost 80 percent of the tea consumed in Ukraine belongs to the average and cheap country group, and the retail price for domestic and imported tea is about the same. So why do we support imports? Even for the army, we have tea spread abroad. After the price rise as a result of the proposed increase in duties, the share of tea in the low average price groups will grow to 90 percent. The cost of a stack of mail tea imported into Ukraine increases by about 50 copies and the cost of a bag of 1 bracelet. For rich consumers who are still able to eat elite expensive imported tea, such an increase will not be burdensome, I think. If this bill is adopted, the budget will increase from 25 million to 34 million dollars a year. Hundreds of jobs will be added, social funds will be added, social pressures on the budget will be reduced, and this will have significant positive social benefits. Taking into account what I have put forward, I support proposals for the adoption of a bill on the basis of an increase in the rate of import duty on beans. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u63	Thank you. Government position. Yuri Yakovic Luzan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u64	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Cabinet of Ministers supports this bill. However, there is one warning. The bill was discussed at a meeting of the Customs Tariff Council and it was decided not to give details of the goods, but to set an import duty rate of 20 percent of the customs value. This decision was based on an estimated 2 euro per kilogram. It's between 18 and 20 percent. At the same time, I stress that Ukraine’s entry into the World Trade Organization has made a commitment not to apply combined or specific import duty rates for production under product group codes 1.24. And I would like to emphasize that the economic justification for this proposal is the same as in the context of the draft of the distinguished People's Deputy Pisarenko. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the amendment of the Ukrainian customs tariff for import duties on imported seasoned tea has been completed. Decisions will be made taking into account the discussion on the day of the vote. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees their social protection, is being announced for consideration. [[on the extension of the Act to individual categories of citizens]] Reporter Boris Jakovič Bespalij, Ukrainian National MP, one of the drafters of the bill. The focal point will be made by the national deputy Anastasiav of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, the specifics of our Bill with Valery Aloshin is that we do not add to the current Law on the Status of War Veterans and guarantee their social protection no additional text. We propose to remove only unjustified discriminatory restrictions on the individual categories of our fellow countrymen. First. It is suggested that a clear injustice be addressed regarding families of hospital and hospital workers who have died. In some cases, the law extends benefits only to the families of the deceased hospital and hospital staff in Leningrad, Stalingrad, Odessa, Sevastopol. Well, I don't want to go on a historical tour right now, something like that, it's the first four hero cities, as we know. But why it does not extend to the children of other dead hospital and hospital workers, we cannot rationally explain. I would point out that it's about the dead, or the front hospitals and hospitals that were located in other cities, the suburbs of cities, and so on. Second position. The law provides that it extends to the wives of men, the dead, the disabled of the Great Homeland War, as well as to wives or men, the dead in war and fighting, guerrillas and impostors, who are recognized by the disabled from general illness, disability, and other reasons that have not been remarried for the second time, but only to those who have been recognized by a disabled person for life. This standard is open - minded because a person can become disabled only in life. And there's no objection. This is not to be made specific. But the evidence of disability may come later because of different circumstances. Everyone knows how much time it takes to ask about the family and loved ones who are still going to the Podolsk submersible city, as we know, and cruelly and unjustly set additional bureaucratic obstacles for the few very elderly widows and widowers who are now there. In that part, the honourable colleagues, the bill received full support from both the professional committee and the scientific and expert boards that propose to take the bill on the basis and with regard to these two provisions, there were certain discussions, but there is full support for the institutions listed. For many, the third position that applies to the soldiers of the Ukrainian UPA rebel army is controversial. Today, article six of the law in force, its sixteenth norm. The persons who are part of the fighting, its 16th paragraph, forgive me, predict that they belong to the soldiers of the Ukrainian rebel army who were involved in the fighting against the German-Fashistic invaders. This is the norm. And my colleague Aloshin and I offer to put a dot there. That's absolutely logical, because the only category of participants in combat, to which there are additional conditions, is that of UPA soldiers. This is completely wrong. We don't say, who, like, went to school, who had other adventures. Well, there were even circumstances that got the participants involved in the fighting into difficult situations of life. We don't take that into account. And that's why I think it's unfair to make discriminatory restrictions on one of the categories of participants in the fighting against German-Fashistic invaders. After all, what is the alternative? Well, the alternative is not to consider those who fought against the Fascists involved. I don't think we can agree on that. And I think we should take that part in mind. What's more, in the part that we and my colleague Aloshin and I are proposing to remove, the UPA's combat chronology is completely incorrect. This is 1941. As we know, the Ukrainian rebel army was created in general only in 1942. And to limit in this case in 1941 and 1944 and only in Ukraine -- that's inappropriate, because the fighting went on and on and on throughout Europe until 1945. And I think this is about restoring historical justice. You know, in this regard, I want to remind all of us of the inscription on the grave of civil war participants in Spain. There are hidden victims at the same time who fought on both sides, and it says, "They died because of what they believed in." And I think that everyone who died and fought in defense of our Ukraine deserves our respect. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u67	Thank you. Boris Jakovitch, please sit down. From the committee, please. I think you can find out later, meet up, and discuss the matter. Please. May I have your attention, Your Honor? Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u68	Valentin Anastasiaev, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons has carefully considered the draft of the Bespalogo People's Deputy and has generally decided to invite the Supreme Council to adopt it on first reading. At the same time, however, the Committee has also considered issues that are not entirely related to the events and the arguments that have now been put forward by Comrade Bespalym. Therefore, the preparation for second reading requires a thorough elaboration of the document. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u69	Do you have everyone? Thank you. Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss this bill? Let's do it that way. We have 11 national deputies on board, please. Two for, two for, and we'll keep working, or we won't get along here. We'll vote for it. There's no objection. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin Let's do it now or not against this bill. Get ready for Vasile Right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u70	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. The honourable national MPs, myself and the party of the country's defenders, questioned the injustice of the law, which is about the status of war veterans, guaranteeing their social protection and not spreading it to individual categories of citizens. In particular, this was raised by people on the receiving side of these questions. And quite right, I thank the MPs and Bespalloma and Aloshina for settling these issues right now in this project, by spreading this bill to the families of all the dead hospital and hospital workers, not just the hero cities, the wives of the dead, the disabled of the Great War. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, for the first time, the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitri Tobacco, in his letter to the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons as a whole, expressed his support for this law in the first reading. This is a positive fact, true, here is not yet ready for Tobacco to go to confession and to distribute this law to UPA soldiers who fought with German-Fashistic invaders. I want to say that the text that is proposed in the new edition, which says that participants in the fighting are recognized by the soldiers of the Ukrainian rebel army who were involved in the fighting against the German-Fashistic invaders, completely excludes all those who have been told all the time that they do not fall under the Rehabilitation Act there and so forth. That is, this bill can be used as a basis for the first reading and can continue to look at the proposals that will be made by the Ukrainian national deputies. I'm so in favour of the bill, and I'll save time, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u71	Thank you. Basil Nadrag, National Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u72	Dear colleagues! The bill was considered on the committee concerned, and our Committee on Pensioners, Disabled Persons and Veterans proposed that the bill be adopted on first reading. Of course, he takes away a number of questions related to the fact that hospital workers and everyone else are killed, why there are four cities that are recognized, and therefore there are no benefits and guarantees for the rest. So the committee here, I'll repeat it on first reading. However, the topic related to UPA fighters had sparked a heated discussion. I'll tell you frankly, the committee had the most discussion on this issue. And I believe that the Committee has made the right decision when it has proposed that the topic be brought to the fore by today's legislation. We have a public commission today that is considering this topic, which should give an overall assessment of this situation, should work on the topic. And in order not to disturb society today, so as not to excite excessive passions today, so as not to overwhelm the subject, the Committee proposes, and in this case, I am in solidarity with it, the subject of the UPA to move from this law to second reading and to consider only the elements that have been discussed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u73	Vasil Ivanovich, so you're just being removed? Yes. Olga Hinzburg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u74	Hinzburg, 161 constituency, Sumska District, Communist Party faction. I signed up for this law because I work in my district, I have a lot of problems that arise. And I have to solve them in this room. Then I support such matters as the actions of this law, that Boris Jakovitch proposed the operation of this law to the families of all the hospital workers, hospitals, and others, the underlings, other dead members of the fighting, the widows, and those who suffer from disability, and other things that have not been married for the second time, which are bound by this law. There are conclusions and observations here that the implementation of the draft law increases the number of people who will be able to use the benefits, and I disagree. Because we, I know this, each of you will confirm that so many people are dying, and our war veterans are getting smaller and smaller. This is a very interesting question that has been brought to the fore today by our Supreme Council, and it touches the political scene. I think to myself, what are these questions for? Here's what's a little bit quiet today is the question that prices are very high, and that's what's bothering people. No, let's talk again about the issues, joining the rebel army in the battles of the Great Homeland War. And I'm thinking, who am I anyway? I'm in the Communist Party, and I'm in opposition with two blocks, two names, along with the People's Movement, I remember my 1991, when my best Communist comrades died, when they were thrown out of the bitter party, party tickets, they scattered these tents that stood there. And literally, when I arrived from the district yesterday or the other night, I was in a meeting with the workers of the Conotope Wagon Repair Plant. They took me in a ring like this -- they're workers, they're crowds of people coming at you, when the director goes one way, a representative of the board of supervisors -- on the other hand, the exodus -- runs to the third side, and you, the deputy, are standing in front of them one by one. And they're pressuring you that what you're not doing is giving us money, you're all sitting there! And I say, "Wait, you wait, I'm in a faction where everyone is now in opposition to the President, and who am I?" I've been in opposition for 11 years, and now everybody's stuck to this opposition, and today they're taking, vote for UNA-UNSO. You tell me you've been abusing the People's Movement, two or three days for us, the Communists, the famine here. There were hearings, and the whole country was talking about this famine. I think about the attitude I have as a communist towards hunger. What? Was I in the governing bodies at the time, or where was I? Why did you chew on the subject? If you wanted to do this, you wouldn't be talking about famine. And we'd say, yes, they considered us, we're paying attention to them, too. Is there anything to talk about? I'm talking again about this opposition they're talking about. We spent 10 years in management positions in the Cabinet of Ministers, a year in opposition, and once again we say that we are in opposition with you. I'm when. I'm very sorry about what I'm talking about. [[B in m in s a l in]] When I look at this question, I'm always thinking about determining my position, which side I'm on, whether I'm on or not. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u75	Thank you. Thank you. Finish it, please. Bogdan Kostinuk is the last performance, the faction of our Ukraine. I ask you to calm down. We'll make a decision by voting. We'll determine the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u76	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor! The drafters referred to an extremely important topic — social protection, including those of the UPA. Because the 12th anniversary of the restoration of independence of the Ukrainian state is approaching. And the issue of recognition of the national-liberal struggle of the Ukrainian people has not yet been resolved at the national level. And so far, Ukraine has no civil reconciliation between participants in World War II who, because of different circumstances, have stopped in military formations that fought for Ukraine under various flags. It is not my belief that it is an obstacle to the civil harmony in society that is so necessary today for the reconstruction of the Ukrainian state. Historical justice must prevail. And it must restore the honor and dignity of the hundreds of thousands of better sons and daughters of the Ukrainian people who have given their lives for the independence of Ukraine in the ranks of the UN UPA, as well as the devotion of the few members of the UN and the veterans of the UPA who are still living today. The leaders of the state have repeatedly claimed that the fight of UN UPA for Ukraine’s independence must be acknowledged. They stressed the need for civil reconciliation in Ukraine, such as Spain. On September 12, 1997, a government commission was set up to study the activities of the UPA. And in general, the issue in Ukraine is rising, and in Ukraine, it is rising for more than 12 years. But it seems that not only is the work of this commission moving forward but it is artificially braked. Because how do you understand that Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Tobacco, instead of activating the closure of the work of this government commission in his letter to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has recently been referred to the temporary commissions of the Supreme Council created on February 1, 1993 and September 13, 1996, which reportedly study this issue? And they no longer exist naturally today because they do not exist. For today the Supreme Council of the Fourth Call is in operation. Honorable national MPs, our radio listeners, the active position of government, the fulfilment of government promises, the fulfilment of the President's promises depends on this kind of harmony in society, and it depends on the recognition of the historic justice of those Ukrainians who fought for freedom and independence in Ukraine. The committee, today this has been said, intends to delete articles on UPA on the second reading. You can't do that. In order for this not to happen, I have a proposal to vote on this law, both in the first reading and in general immediately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u77	Yes, please, from the government of Viktor Mikolaiovich Djachenko, Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u78	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The government supports the legislative initiative of the National Deputies of Bespalogo and Aloshina in part, namely, to establish appropriate status for the families of the dead, hospital staff and hospitals regardless of their location, as well as for the wives of the dead warlords and those involved in hostilities recognized by the disabled. At the same time, the government sees today as premature amendments to article 6 of the Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection with regard to UPA soldiers. In our view, it is only possible to definitively identify all the issues after considering the findings of the UN Commission of Study, UPA and the production of the official position and the legal basis for the conclusions it has reached. The above-mentioned position of the Cabinet of Ministers coincides with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office and, as has already been reported, the decision of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on pensioners, veterans and invalids. In view of the above, the government supports the adoption of the bill on the basis of further elaboration, taking into account its main observations, including the possibility of enacting the law only from January of the following year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u79	Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! Well, everything's gonna be fine now. Listen carefully. A review of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, the guarantees of their social protection, has been completed. [[on the dissemination of legislation in individual categories of citizens]] Decisions will be made taking into account the discussion on the day of the vote. The replica. Kenzier, national deputy, and then Solomonine. I'm still working. It's okay, everything's going to be resolved in a civilized way.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u80	Honorable colleagues are national deputies! I would like to remind the MPs, especially from the parliamentary majority, of what is in Galicín, and the President of the State, and not one high official, gathering the electoral vote before the election, they promised to take up the problem of recognition of UPA soldiers and to provide the state benefits they should have. And as for the position of today's government, which says it's premature to ask. Clearly, today’s alleged Ukrainian government for this category of Ukrainian citizens who fought for Ukrainian independence, for freedom and for the will of the Ukrainian people, is said to be premature. It's too early to say that all U.N. UPA soldiers will die, then the government will come back. If today’s Prime Minister and today’s entire team are at the head of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u81	Thank you. Just a minute. The replica will be Solomon’s mother and all. Please, Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u82	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I remember the very well-known folklore replica of one of our colleagues, "What's the use of pushing him if he doesn't climb?" So I would like to ask you not to push it because what our independent Ukrainian state is facing has not yet been resolved. What was the significance of the UPA’s formation in 1943? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress once again that we have completed our consideration of the bill. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils is being announced for consideration. The reporter is National Deputy Vitaly Mikolaiovich Olujko. Boris Bespalloma please prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u84	Mr. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable members of the people, will try to narrowly outline the basic positions of this bill, which is proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council, because, firstly, it does not constitute, in our opinion, a revolutionary nature, secondly, a practice of applying the existing law, and thirdly, it is aimed exclusively at clarifying the legal status of the deputy of the local councils. If you'll excuse me, it's a matter of principle. First. To the duties of the deputy, it is proposed to add the responsibility of participating in public hearings on matters relating to his constituency. This question seems reasonable to us, since a representative of the interests of the territorial community is obliged to be on the edge of all events in the territorial community. It is considered appropriate to make this change in order to stimulate the activities of local council members. The other one. It is proposed that members of the local councils be given the right to free access to the media of the form of property for the purpose of publishing the results of their own parliamentary activities and informing them of the work of the Council. The access mode for the given media should determine the appropriate advice. This is a legal norm aimed at defining a mechanism to address the issue of the access of members of local councils to the media. In our view, these relations must be legally defined in order to reduce abuse in this area. Each member should know clearly his or her right to be heard and seen. Third. In order to determine the full legal status of members of the local councils, their rights and obligations should not be distributed throughout the law but should be accumulated in the relevant articles. This is complemented by the fact that a local council member in the constituency has the right to receive citizens, to meet with business groups, institutions, and organizations, and local community centres within his district. This right entails the responsibility of local executives, business leaders, institutions, public and municipal property organizations to assist members in organizing their reports and meetings. Four. In order to improve the institution, it is suggested that the mandate of the electorate is taken into account in the development of plans and economic and social development programmes for the area concerned, local economic programmes, budgeting, and other issues. Without this definition of the mandate of the electorate, it is not customary for the authorities to take into account and deprive the MP of the right to pursue this commission. And the last. In order to enhance the protection of the labour and other rights of members of the local councils, it is proposed that members be allowed to be released for prior consent given to the decision of the council concerned. The decision is to be prepared by the relevant council committee and to be taken at a session of the board. The Special Committee supports this bill. The conclusion of the main science-expert management is generally positive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u85	Thank you. Sit down, Vitalia Mikolaiovich. Boris Jakovic, please state your position on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, as Vitaly Mikolaiovich rightly said, is a professional committee that really supports this bill, but I pay attention to only one aspect of the latter. In fact, a professional committee believes that only one who is confidently protected can protect human rights. And he supports all measures aimed at increasing the protection of members of local councils, especially from external forceful administrative pressure. But this rule, which foresees that a member of the local council can only be released by obtaining a prior consent from the council, is, unfortunately, contrary to the Constitutional Court’s decision, which considers this to be unconstitutional. Therefore, if a solution is found to this situation, the committee will welcome it, but I now have to pay attention to this nuance. In general, the committee supports and asks the deputies to support the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u87	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to continue our work for 15 minutes. Shall we discuss this bill? Please, please, very briefly. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u88	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Ukraine's "On the Status of Deputies of Local Councils" Act was adopted on July 11, 2002, and on December 10, a proposal was already made to change this. This indicates, first of all, that the laws that we adopt are properly prepared and processed. And secondly, we haven't completely solved the problems that local councils have. The Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils detailed for the first time the rights and duties of members of local councils, their powers and their status. The strong part of this law is that it sets out the relationship between voters and members of local councils, such as the question of the appointment of voters and the resignation of a local council member. As a result, the electorate was given a real right guaranteed by law to influence the elected MP in the event that he improperly exercises the powers he has assumed, the electorate had the opportunity to initiate and carry out the procedure for withdrawing him. In the event that we abolish this provision of law, the electorate will have to endure for four years a deputy who does not defend their interests in local self-government. I'm far from thinking that in our circumstances, voters will be able to implement their right, but chapter five of the law, which provides for this possibility, is still of a deterrence and warning nature. Cancelling this section is, in my view, damaging to our electorate in the first place. In my opinion, the law needs to extend the rights of voters, simplify the procedure for their implementation, most of them under so-called market conditions are deprived of the right to protect their rights to housing, education, treatment and other rights provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. Because it takes money. Money for lawyers, money for bribes, money for help, and much more. So in my opinion, the rights of the electorate in the law that we are discussing should be extended rather than reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u89	"For"? We've got it. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u90	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Of course, the situation in which local councils are now appointed is awe - inspiring. Scary, first of all, because they are sometimes objects of manipulation, as is the case in Odessa today, where Mayor Ruslan Bodelan gives his son the entire coastline at his disposal, he's in charge of a small enterprise called Lans, it's very easy to verify. The MPs vote in an obedient manner. But each of them is also rewarded. It is also scary because of what is happening in Winnitz, when a full war is waged against city council deputies by militia forces who are unable to expose the attacks, they are unable to expose the terrorists. There the city chief thought that he had not even wondered what his deputies were carrying around the city with a bag tied to his head, with a chain on his neck. I think a city head should either resign or say he's not a city head, and I don't know who. And we also need to protect such people by law. In view of the fact that today MPs in the districts do not actually have the right to access the media in the form of public property and cannot publish the results of their parliamentary activities, inform the council about their work, and can't properly receive citizens, hold meetings with the group, because it's all being usurped around. In view of this, changes are needed, and such a law is needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u92	But at the same time, there is a position and there is a decision by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I'll remind you that it was issued on March 26, 2003, where ink is not yet completely dry, where unconstitutional decisions that we are now saying are only to be released from work. And the Constitutional Court stated that, within the meaning of article 140 of the Constitution, there would be a place for local authorities to interfere with the relationship between the employer and the hired worker, the manager and the subordinate. And that's right. As long as this decision of the Constitutional Court is not overturned, this cannot be accepted So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, if I'm clear about whether or not I can speak against the project, I can speak for the normal points of this project and against those points that do not correspond to the Constitution and the Constitutional Court's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u93	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, who is against this bill? None. A review of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils has been completed. Decisions will be made in accordance with the Rules on the day of the vote and taking into account the discussion. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to low-income families for children with disabilities is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Ukrainian national deputy Gavrish Stepan Bogdanovic, who is the author of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u94	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues! This law is extremely important if we come from the fact that Ukraine is a social state. It aims to harmonise the Ukrainian government’s position on increasing the targeted aid segment and moving from aid to targeted assistance to the first-ever low-income families. Today, assistance to low - income families is increasing from the cost of living to the minimum. I would like to remind you that this level is set at 80 dollars per month per person. This law establishes that for each child who is part of a low - income family, the minimum income is increased by 10 percent and for each child who receives only one parent or one adoptive parent, by 20 percent. The bill that I am presenting today is extremely necessary and important for these people. It needs to increase the provision of a subsistence minimum for families where one or two parents are disabled by 10 percent of the first or second group. The logic of the bill is that families where either parent or both parents are disabled in the first or second group are also less able to provide sufficient income for the child. And 80 bracelets is an extremely low level to provide a minimum of living. Clearly, it is virtually impossible to survive on such money. Most low-income people are saved by finding extra jobs, and that is also extremely difficult given that it is very difficult to get a disabled person to work today. All of this requires considerable effort and sufficient physical health. Obviously, it is far more difficult for people with disabilities to find additional sources of support for their existence, especially those with disabilities in the first and third groups. I can't say that this bill will dramatically improve the lives of these people. Of course, the sum of eight is too small because, in fact, the addition to 80 dollars of this sum does not determine the possibility of living better. But this money for the disabled is a vital aid. The average Ukrainian spends about 20 dollars a day, the Ukrainians spend an average of 4 grand on official press statistics. Money for a day. At that time, individuals defined by the bill spend only 2.5 bracelets a day. Thus, even such little help is valuable to them. The implementation of the law will, of course, require $14 million from the State budget. However, the number of disabled persons in Ukraine is 1 million. 600 grand, 280 grand. - Kids. As a result, assistance to 140,000 families will be extremely difficult. It should also be considered that the next budget will be designed with the growth of gross domestic gross product from two to six percent, which will mean that we will get at least one and a half billion dollars. I don't think that's going to be a problem for both Parliament and the government to take a decision. Thank you. I think my time I didn't use to give Dobkin to his bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u95	Thank you, Stepan Bogdanovich. Please, the position of the government. Djachenko Viktor Mikolaiovich is Deputy Secretary of State for the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u96	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, supports this bill, but proposes to determine the date of validity of the law, not from the date of its publication, but from January 1, 2004. Since the bill is only possible when it comes to the allocation of additional budgetary allocations that are unfortunately not included in the current year's budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u97	Thank you. Alexandrovska, please. And I don't think we need to discuss this any further. Let's look at another bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u98	I would like to point out that these are amendments to the law that substantially violate the Constitution and the rights of citizens in Ukraine in general. The fact is that when we passed this Law on State Social Assistance to poor families, we have already invaded human rights and we have already violated the Constitution. The fact is that we, the people's deputies, have made a provision that defines public social assistance as the difference between the subsistence minimum and the income of the family. We further state that, pending the stabilization of the economic situation in Ukraine, State social assistance is determined on the basis of the level of subsistence minimum. We know with you that living minimum is the amount of money that people need for their biological existence to meet their minimum needs for life. So this is an increase of 20 per cent, up to 20 per cent of the subsistence minimum for children who are raised in the homes of persons with disabilities, of course, is a misery. And once again, to remind you, Stepan Bogdanovich, it was necessary to change here, to remove the situation that violates the Constitution, not to paint it. Although, of course, I understand that this law is likely to be supported by all of us, guided by at least that folk wisdom: a lousy sheep, at least a furtive kangaroo.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u99	Yes, please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u100	Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Honorable national MPs, 20 percent, 8 pennies per family, one or two parents with disabilities of the first or second group, are worth 14 million dollars. You know very well that when the Sugar-Sparing Act was passed, Ukraine lost 108 million dollars. Multiply by 5 is 600 million dollars. And that's why I can say, completely put my hand on my heart, people are good, instead of 20, write at least 40, at least 40. So it's not going to be 14 million dollars, it's going to be 28 million dollars, but it's going to be 140,000 families, 140,000 of our Ukrainian children. And so, dear friends, these reserves we have, in the Ukrainians, let's write it down and then, and adopt 40 percent, and when we adopt the law, this law will still work only from January 1st until next year, before it can't work, and then there we'll see in the law, we'll apply someone else, we'll reduce the number of DUSSs in the end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u101	Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u102	Dear colleagues! The faction supports Kabmin's position as of January 1st, of course, it's with the formation of the budget, but what this law has to do is true. Most of all of us, everyone, are addressed by those parents who have disabled children and who are disabled. These are the least protected families in Ukraine. In addition, I now propose that we remember these nuances when we adopt the budget. We once suggest that we write that children in Ukraine under 18 are treated free of charge and that we provide for the cost of this treatment in the budget. Today all these operations are for these children, all treatment is the chief pain of a district MP. I won't tell you what a tragedy this is for my parents. Therefore, by upholding this law, we need to take this standard as a duty and keep it in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m1.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues! A review of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on State social assistance to low-income families for children with disabilities has been completed. The decision will be made on the day of the vote, taking into account the discussion that took place today. Unfortunately, we still cannot continue our work. Dear colleagues, 15 minutes, I am no longer entitled. We will vote tomorrow morning so that we can work until the meeting schedule is exhausted. I'd like to support you tomorrow. I'd love to have three projects left. We'd have to look at them. We'll see about that tomorrow. And agrarian. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. I thank you for your effective work today. Tomorrow we'll resume the meeting at ten o'clock. The issues set out in the Wednesday schedule will be considered. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock, we agreed not to hold the Vizne, but we will immediately listen to the Prime Minister's information on the situation in the APC. And then we're going to go over the bills that apply to the agrarian sphere. See you tomorrow.
