ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We're starting the morning plenary session. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Budzigan Philip Pilipovich, the Final Vladimir Leontijovich and Pejota Vladimir Juliusovich. Happiness, health, and inspiration, and success for all of you. [[Applause]] People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:57]] Registered -395 There were 395 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules on Friday, we discuss the order of the day session. You have a list of questions to consider. The rule today does not provide for the consideration of parliamentary requests, but if you agree, the requests may be made. Is there any objection? People's MPs have been asked. Victor Kirilov to the President of Ukraine for a catastrophic situation that resulted from an outbreak of the hepatitis epidemic in the city of Sukoolsk Lugansk region. [[10:03:00]] For-164 Decision taken. Istwana Hydos and Tamara Proskaratova to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory state of the provision of Hungarian-speaking schools in the Zakarpat region, with literature in Hungarian. Please vote. [[10:03:30]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the restoration of system supplies, drinking water in the villages of the Kyyanic Rural Council, Sumo District, Suma District. Please make up your mind. [[10:04:00]] For-138 Decision taken. Michael Wolinz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of material assistance to victims as a result of an explosion in a residential building in Bila Church. [[10:04:26]] For-127 Decision taken. Group of People's Deputies, Katerinczuk, Stretkovic, Klukkowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, concerning the provision of guarantees to the State for teaching workers provided for in article 57 of the Education Act. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:04:59]] For-147 Decision taken. Tarasa Steckova to the prime minister of Ukraine for the transfer of the property complex of the military town of Hirovo to the municipal property of the Old Sambibi district of Lviv. Please vote. [[10:05:27]] For 112 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies - Czervoniy, Yukhnovsky, Grigorovich, the other only six National Deputies - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the arbitrary admiration of the representatives of the Moscow Patriarchate of Property of Kyiv-Peter's Historic Cultural Reserve. Please make up your mind. [[10:06:01]] For 116 Decision taken. Istwana Heidosh and Tamara Proskaratov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfying state of teaching Ukrainian in schools with Hungarian language of instruction in the Zakarpatsky region. Please make up your mind. [[10:06:31]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the non-admission of the illegal restructuring of the Sevastopol State Enterprise "Atlantic". Please make up your mind. [[10:07:03]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies - Red, Yukhnovsky, Yavorowski and others, only eleven deputies - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appropriateness of apology at the official level before Germany, Romania, Hungary, Turkey, Russia and Poland for the armed resistance of the Ukrainian people to the occupying armies of these States and for the national liberation wars of the Ukrainian people on their original Ukrainian lands. Please vote. [[10:07:48]] For-140. Decision Adopted Vladimir Yavorowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the exceptional water supply situation in the city of Zwkwa Lvivsk region because of the indebtedness of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to the city utility company. Please make up your mind. [[10:08:19]] For-136 Decision taken. Victor King to Prime Minister of Ukraine in the face of dissatisfaction with the reply of Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine Dmitry Tobacco to the parliamentary request to respond to the illegal actions of the Head of the Montenegrin District Authority. Please make up your mind. [[10:08:52]] For 124 Decision taken. Georgia Manchulenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for payment to the producers for the sale of cattle for the increased weight of the condition. Please make up your mind. [[10:09:21]] For-125 Decision taken. Eugene Kirilczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the liquidation of the debt owed to residential and utility enterprises of Vladimir Volinsky for the provision of professional benefits to persons. Please make up your mind. [[10:09:49]] For-151 Decision taken. Anatolia Franchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the damage to the companies of Bagherov and Čkalov Autonomous Republic of Crimea by other wine companies. Please vote. [[10:10:20]] For-29 The decision is not taken. The National Deputies' Groups Vasyunik, Pinzenik and others to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution of the crisis environmental and health-epidemiological situation in the city of Sambi Lviv district. [[10:10:49]] For-188. Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakova - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-compliance of effective legislation by certain directors of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Supreme Court of Ukraine and employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Please make up your mind. [[10:11:22]] For 128 Decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the deliberate collapse of senior state officials marking the century Boris Gmiry. Please vote. [[10:11:52]] For-164 Mr. Mikoli Tomenka is Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Dmitr Tobacco, Attorney General of Ukraine, in response to a parliamentary request for violations of the Ukrainian law on advertising in support of amendments to the Constitution. Please make up your mind. [[10:12:24]] For 176 Decision taken. Julius Timoshenko to the U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine on the involvement of the captain of the Tax Police of Oleg the Non-Straight and the flag of the Tax Police of Vitali Shamanski. Please make up your mind. [[10:12:52]] For-182 Decision taken. Alexia Kozachenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Committee on Land Resources of Ukraine on gross violations of Ukrainian legislation in the conduct of the land reform of the Odessa City Council and its organs. Please make up your mind. [[10:13:23]] For 221 Decision taken. Julius Timoshenko, head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for numerous facts and violations of human rights, and citizen of the inaction of executive authorities, prosecutors and courts in the Donetsk region. Please make up your mind. I said Julia Timoshenko. [[10:14:04]] For 181 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the head of the Coordinating Committee on Combating Corruption and Organized Crime with the President of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the improper investigation of a criminal case against the State of material damage at the Odessa Seaport. Please make up your mind. [[10:14:39]] For-198 Decision taken. The National Deputies' Groups of Kostinuk and others to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations by the Attorney General of Ukraine of the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, regulation 7 of Ukraine on responding to requests from Ukrainian national deputies. Please make up your mind. "Regions of Ukraine." We haven't started the celebration yet. [[10:15:14]] For-127 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the groundless closure of the road accident case near the village of Poltavka Companyi district of Kirovograd. Please make up your mind. [[10:15:46.]] For-167 Decision taken. Michael Wolinz to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the Krasnoarmian Mine, West Number 1 of the Donetsk Region of Constitutional Rights of Citizens in connection with the entry into the freely selected trade union. Please make up your mind. [[10:16:20]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies: Sobolev, Moroz, Kosov, Crnowil and others, only 11 deputies, to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the unhealthy situation at Zaporozhye State University in connection with the appointment of Savina, the Rector’s Officer. Please make up your mind. [[10:16:56]] For 168 Decision taken. Vladimir Yeshchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unobjective investigation by the prosecutor’s authorities of the case of the unintentional murder of a resident of Umani Tkauka O.H. Please make up your mind. [[10:17:25]] For a hundred and Decision taken. John Ivancho to the Minister of Transportation of Ukraine regarding the unsatisfying condition of the roads to the international car terminal of Carpathian and the city of Uzhgrad. Please make up your mind. [[10:17:56]] For-173 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine in connection with the alienation of part of the premises of the Bobrinecki House of Child and Youth Creativity for the benefit of the branch office of Ukristok. Please make up your mind. [[10:18:26]] For a hundred and In 145, the decision is made. Mikoli Gapoczka to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on speeding up the provision of clarifications to the Ukrainian Supreme Court on the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on State Material Reserve. Please make up your mind. [[10:18:57]] For 122 Decision taken. Andrew School for the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the elimination of artificial monopolies in the car registration market. Please make up your mind. [[10:19:24]] For-129 For 119, the decision is made. Vladimir Petrenko to the head of the Suma District State Administration for damages to residents of the village of Kyyanitsa in connection with the liquidation of the sugar plant. Please make up your mind. [[10:19:52]] For 133 For 133, the decision's made. Victor King to the head of the Coordinating Committee on Anti-Corruption, organized crime with the President of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the legality of using the head of the Montenegrin District Administration, the employees of the Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine as guardians of his family. Please make up your mind. [[10:20:36]] For 176 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the non-admission of corruption, which has arisen among some of the leaders of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Please make up your mind. [[10:21:07]] For-123 Decision taken. Roman Tkača, Mikoli Kroutz, head of the State Committee on Information Policy, Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine on the situation that has arisen from the screening of the film "Holdomor" and "The Unscrupulous". Please make up your mind. [[10:21:36]] For-127 Decision taken. Group of National Deputies, Matvienko, Lukyanenko, Omelchenka, Sitnik to the Director of the Institute of History of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine on the scientific inadequacy of individual scientists in the Institute of History. Please make up your mind. [[10:22:11]] For-100 Decision taken. Victor Kirillov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a catastrophic situation that resulted from an outbreak of the hepatitis epidemic in Sukoolsk, Luhansk region. Please make up your mind. [[10:22:40]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Julius Tymoshenko, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on providing information on the circumstances of the detention of Captain of the Tax Police of Oleg the Non-Straight and flagman of the Vitalia Shamanski Tax Police. Please make up your mind. [[10:23:10]] For 155 Decision taken. Eugene Jovtak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the signs of corruption in the actions of the Yagotin City Head and the Head of the City Building, Architecture and Housing Department of the Yagotin District State Administration. Please make up your mind. [[10:23:42]] For 101 Decision taken. Valentina Matvieva to the Head of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the actual and legal fate of property transferred to the Supreme Council of the Crimean Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic in accordance with the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the temporary cessation of the activities of the Company of Ukraine. Please make up your mind. [[10:24:23]] For-93 Julius Timoshenko to the head of the Ukrainian State Tax Administration for providing information on the reasons for the release of Captain Oleg of the Non-Straight and the flag of the Tax Police, Vitaly Shamanski. Please make up your mind. [[10:24:56]] For 134 The National Deputies of Rudzkowski and Lechchenko are concerned about the need to protest the decision of the Montenegrin City Council regarding the removal of part of the recreational zone to the construction of a commercial entertainment complex. Please make up your mind. [[10:25:34]] For-164 Decision taken. Mikoli Rudzikowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Piscoun, on the inaction of the directors of the Prosecutor's Office in the area of illegal privatization of the Chevchenko apartment. Please make up your mind. [[10:26:07]] For 105 Decision taken. National Deputy Orzhachowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of the State Program for the completion of the construction of gas pipelines in the part of the construction of the Green Dolsky-Vrontovka pipeline in the Herson region. Please make up your mind. [[10:26:43]] For 128 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the first request was to the President of Ukraine, so we need to vote on the direction. Victor Kirilov's request to the President of Ukraine for a catastrophic situation that resulted from an outbreak of a hepatitis epidemic in the city of Sukholsk Lugansk region. Please identify your destination. [[10:27:22]] For 216 The decision is not taken. At the request of the People’s Deputies, I request that this request be put to the vote again. Please make up your mind. [[10:27:57]] For 287 Decision taken. Announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and Article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules", I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Nasalik Igor Stepanović, as part of the Ukrainian MP's "Region of Ukraine". Out of procedure, National Deputy Matthew's Communist Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u2	Thank you. Valentin Matthew's faction of Communists. Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, first of all, I would like to say that, despite the fact that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has given a clear commission on the inadmissibility of an announcement at one plenary session of more than two parliamentary inquiries, this shameful practice is repeated. And I'll tell you what's so impressive that we already have the acceptance of parliamentary questions turned into some kind of competition -- who's more. I still want to remind you that we've already agreed on this. And second, Alexandre Alexiyovich, in connection with the repeated appeals made to me by national deputies. I would like to remind you, as head of the Committee on Regulatory Affairs, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that the seat in the middle of the presidency is not the place of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is the seat of the chairman of the plenary of the Supreme Council. So you don't have to, Alexander Alexiyovich, be afraid of him as if there were loaded stars. I don't think that's there. What's more, you're capable, as I thought yesterday, and for more courageous concessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u3	I thank you very much. But I don't take it for granted. As for my computer, it is more convenient for me to meet on my own computer. Therefore, I understand, as far as the Rules are concerned, I will be following the requirements of the Rules very clearly today, and I remind the Secretariat of the rule that next time we will only vote on the number of requests defined by the Rules means no more than two. Because that's why the Secretariat is given an order as to how applications and appeals are recorded, so there will be a request for an announcement of the Rules, a declaration of applications. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Your consideration, colleagues, is about the draft Ukrainian Administrative and Procedural Code, registration number 1331. The rapporteur is appointed Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy, Onopenek Vasil Vasilovich. The original rule: for the report, 10 minutes, for the answer to the question to the reporter, 5 minutes, for the discussion and decision-making, 5 minutes, 20 minutes for consideration. Vasil Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u4	Thank you, Alexander Alexiyovich, dear colleagues! Taken 10 minutes to report. This is above the document that Ukraine has been working on for more than 10 years. But on the other hand, it says that this document, in my view and the view of the members of the Committee on Legal Policy, is perfect. So I think I'm going to go into the rules and explain the basics. In the process of reforming the Ukrainian society, administrative reform and reform have an extremely important place. The need for acceleration and implementation has become very urgent since Ukraine’s accession to the Council of Europe, with which a number of commitments have been made by the State, including in the legal sphere. The draft Code took into account the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the legal regulation of social relations in the field of human and civil rights courts, relations with public authorities, local authorities, their officials or officials, and the creation of specialized courts in Ukraine, as provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine, in particular article 125. Taking into account the above experience, the activities of the administrative courts of other countries, such as the Federal Republic of Germany, Spain, Estonia, Poland, Russia, as well as the proposals and comments of ministries, other central executive bodies of Ukraine, individual scientists, the working group under the leadership of the first Deputy Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, and then the relevant drafts of the Administrative Code and deputies, you have them in your hands, prepared by the draft Administrative Procedure Code. We've created a working group and in my opinion we've been able to prepare the only draft of the Administrative Procedures Code that you have here today. According to the structure, the draft Administrative Code consists of nine chapters that combine 36 chapters. I have to point out that there, when I reported the draft Civil Procedure Code to the Supreme Council, I noted that the relevant standards were related to administrative relations removed from the Civil Procedure Code, and they are being transposed into the Administrative Procedure Code today. For the first time, I think, we've approached the point where we've established general positions, the parties to the administrative processual relationship, their rights, the rights of the participants, and we've given separate features to the conduct of separate categories of administrative affairs. In particular, election committees, the permanent suspension of the powers of the national deputy, the speciality of decisions, actions or omissions of the public executive service, the limitation of the right to peaceful meetings, and so forth. I think it's the first time we've had such a legal and technical opportunity when we've come up with such an optimal option. The administrative courts that will be established in Ukraine, and you know the Supreme Administrative Court, already established by the President’s decree, refer to disputes of natural and legal persons with subjects of authority, where they believe that the subject of authority has violated their rights, freedoms or legitimate interests by his decisions, actions, or omissions. Disputes over the admission of citizens to the public service, the service of local self - government, its passage, the release from public service, the service of local self - government. Local general courts, as administrative courts, will be subject to administrative proceedings in which one party is an authority or an official of local self - government, an official of an authority of local self - government other than those under the jurisdiction of district administrative courts. All administrative matters relating to decisions, actions, or omissions of entities of authority in matters involving administrative responsibility. The District Administrative Courts will be subject to administrative proceedings in which one party is a government body, an Autonomous Republic of Crimea authority, its official or official body, in addition to their decisions, actions or omissions in matters of administrative action. Cases involving the actions or omissions of officials and officials of local executive authorities. In the event of the uncertainty of the overall jurisdiction of the administrative case, such a case will be dealt with by the local administrative court at the choice of the applicant. It is also determined whether we are trying to determine the subjective jurisdiction of cases of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, including the cancellation of the registration of a person as a candidate for the Presidents of Ukraine. Moreover, regarding decisions or omissions of the Central Electoral Commission or its members, other cases provided for by law. The appropriate territorial subordination of administrative matters, the subjugation of several related requirements, the change in the jurisdiction of the administrative case, and much more. I would like to point out, dear colleagues, that the adoption of the Administrative Procedure Code will enable us to create a system of administrative justice. I mean, first of all, the establishment of local administrative courts, and the draft law provides that local administrative courts will be created at the level or today, let's say, at the level of the courts of general jurisdiction, the local courts and the judge, one of the judges or several will specialize in administrative matters, but also we. It is envisaged to create district courts or, in other words, interdistrictal district administrative courts, where there will be judicial cases involving, say, local authority in the area of a certain administrative area, when it is not desirable for a judge to deal with a case, such as a case involving the head of administration of the area concerned. Let the District Court do it and it's going to be a little bit independent in the legal and territorial aspects of the local government. We'll have appeal courts next. Well, it's a familiar system, we'll create it in the courts of general jurisdiction, and an appeal will be filed with the Court of Appeal. If the parties no longer agree with the ruling of the Court of Appeal, there is still room for consideration in the Court of Cassation, which -- I apologize -- in the Supreme Administrative Specialised Court. But this will not be the last, because there may be a retrial before the Supreme Court of Ukraine, and the Supreme Court of Ukraine will put the last dot in a case or another administrative case. I mean, there's this highly echelonized judicial system where people can still protect their rights from lawlessness on the part of officials, from violations of the rights and freedoms of citizens on the part of executive authorities and so forth. We have considered this draft of the Administrative Procedure Code at a meeting of the Committee on Legal Policy, and I must tell you that my colleagues, members of the committee, have actively supported it, and they understand these matters. And we recommend that you adopt the draft Administrative Procedure Code as the basis for the first reading. There are some interesting novels involved in the process of appeal, cassation, but in the absence of time, I just can’t give them to you. I would like to say that, despite the enormous, colossal work on the draft Administrative Procedure Code, he still has some flaws. And the last time we met, when we gathered a hearing of the Legal Policy Committee, when they were judges, representatives of the law enforcement agencies, the prosecutor’s office, Minsk, showed that there was still a reserve for improving this document. I think once we vote in favour of the draft Administrative Procedure Code in the first reading, we'll take it as a basis, we'll have the opportunity, maybe even, Alexander Alexiyovich, to publish, I'm making a proposal to the committee, to publish this important extremely legislative act and to amend it and make appropriate proposals. I think our nation, our society, and we're actually going to be a little bit better off in the face of the European rule of law. Thank you for your attention. I think I'm in the middle of something.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u5	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Is there a question for the reporter? I don't see it, I do. Please sign up. People's Deputy Goernik, faction of "Our Ukraine." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u6	Dear Vassil Vasilovich! Of course, this is a very important document and I support your proposal to publish it, but it also raises the question of how to implement it. This is actually a very complex judicial reform that needs adequate funding. Do you not consider it necessary to introduce an appropriate programme for its implementation with appropriate calculation, budgeting, both next and next year? That's the first question. The second question concerns an administrative treaty. Such terminology is present in your bill. Is it not clear what he would represent, and why is he necessary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I thank you simply for the first question and for the second. Because, really, without the cost, without the support of us and the creation of an appropriate budget, we don't have to create administrative courts. We've taken this situation into account, and at the level, you see, the general courts of the locals we're currently specializing in judges. So the cost is going to be small, but they need to be found, and it's up to all of us. We will make such proposals, along with the Ukrainian judiciary, the Supreme Court, and I think we will have to decide this issue. With regard to an administrative contract, this is a new concept in administrative law, but it is in many European countries when an administrative agreement can be concluded, that is, a treaty that deals with public relations, not private relations, but with authority, with local authorities, government authorities, and other subjects, such as a natural person or a legal person. And then someone breaks the terms of the contract. Actually, it's new, but I don't think it's going to live with us in Ukraine. At least we can go back to this problem in our second reading. Make suggestions!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u8	Basil Calinchuk, Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u9	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Vassil Vasilovich, I agree with you and with my colleague just speaking out, that this is a really important law. The adoption of an administrative code will certainly create the right legal basis for the exercise of justice in administrative matters. This will, of course, be aimed at protecting and freeing our citizens, the legitimate interests of legal persons from violations both by the State and by local self - government, and so forth. But I have a question like this, and I want an explanation. Articles 37 and 40 state that the message is also given in cases of receipt by any adult member of the addressee’s family who lives with him. Well, that might be normal, as far as I'm concerned. But in the absence of a suitable residential organization or local self - government. And we're confident that this residential or local self-government organization will pass on this message, will it find the one to whom this message is addressed? Will there be any additional coalitions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u10	Thank you. It's a valid question. But I'll say that we already have this practice in civilian affairs, even though it's not perfect, you say it right. But on the other hand, there's a problem. Let's say 20 to 30 participants in the trial. They all show up, and the side that's inconclusive just doesn't show up. And then you can imagine how much time is being wasted, and I don't say all the other things anymore. So somewhere around here, we need to find that kind of gold inside. And we think that's it. Although each time the court should really check whether the document has been delivered.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u11	Yuri Shirko, Our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u12	Yuri Shirko, Our Ukraine. Please pass the word to my colleague Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u13	Turn on the microphone of the people's MP Bespalogo.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u14	Boris Bespalij, Ukrainian People’s Party, city of Kiev Vassil Vasilovich, this is the case today, in general, in administrative matters, so strange a situation where the parties can't sue the decision, and prosecutors can sue the decision at any time and without any restrictions: twice, three times, four times. Although the Law on Public Prosecutions and the Constitution do not specifically provide for the right to charge the prosecutor. I mean, in this case, there's no charges against a lawyer, et cetera. You said in your report that, in my opinion, a meaningful bill was good that the envisaged mechanism for the prosecution of administrative decisions by citizens and I fully support it. But were there such calculations? There will be a great deal of dissatisfaction in these matters. That is how realistic the charges in each such case are, and how much more will it cost, and how much more will it require the creation of possible judicial authorities or courts to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u15	We've done some of these calculations, in fact, today's Civil Procedure Code does not provide for, say, an indictment of court decisions relating to elections to local authorities, and we know what that led to. But a new Civil Procedure Code is being prepared, where this problem is being unlocked. But this relationship has been transferred to the Administrative Procedure Code. We just don't have another way out. I think that when in court, courts are now handling these cases, and in every local court there will be, there will be, there will be, there will be, there will be, there will be, there will be, there will be, there will be, there will be an appeal, and there will be, there will be, there will be, there will be, there will be an appeal. And even once again, it's going to be a case before the Supreme Court, and I've said it. So I think that the courts will not be overloaded, but the courts will be unloaded, there will be specialization, there will be a greater knowledge of this legislation and practice by the courts that will deal with these matters and the quality of them will be greatly improved. I'm not talking about any other legal guarantees.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u16	Last short question, Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u17	Thank you, Alexandre Alexiyovich, Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Vasily Vasilovich, I also like your bill, which you present today, I think, really, it's for our organs, both the courts, and the executives, and so on, a lot of help in the future. But I am concerned with this issue of funding. Have we calculated the costs that will then be incurred, borne, budgeted with the introduction of the bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u18	I don't have that number today, unfortunately I don't. I think that for the second reading, when we consider it, we will definitely take it all out. It's a really important question. I'm grateful for the kind words, but this is, I'm just presenting this draft Administrative Procedure Code. But it was the great work of the judges of the Supreme Court, the Minist, on my colleagues, and including many, many scientists, for which they have great thanks.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u19	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Please sit down. Let's start the discussion. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist Party, is invited to attend. Get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u20	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The need to adopt a law that would generalize the application of administrative rules has long been ripe. At the same time, when considering the proposed project, we must remember that the main task of it is to protect the rights and freedoms of citizens, to establish the rule of law, to strengthen the rule of law, to prevent delinquency, to train citizens in the spirit of strict and unabated adherence to the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, to raise their responsibilities and to be accountable to society. Of course, it is a positive feature of the draft code that the project takes into account the experiences of other countries. A major step in Ukrainian legal science is the introduction in the Code of Active and Initiative Participation of the Court in a process aimed at facilitating the decision, action or omission of the public authority, the local self - government body and their officials. It is also an undeniable success in the draft code that the obligation to enforce the rightfulness of decisions, actions, or omission lies with an official rather than with a citizen who has suffered as a result of that decision or action. In my view, if this codex were to work today, the local budget in Kirovograd would have been accepted and innocent people would not have suffered in any way. At the same time, the Code requires some work and harmony with other laws of Ukraine. The project provides that administrative cases as first instance courts are decided, particularly by local courts. The practice shows that local courts are overloaded today. Sometimes for months or years, citizens have been waiting for a solution to their claims. For example, an elderly man living in the city of Novo archangelsk Kirovograd, the province of Sviridenko Leonidas, was brutally beaten by young men who did not like his ideas because he was a Communist. And you think you found the support and help and the truth of the injured Swirl. Did the young men get what they deserved? Neither did I. For almost a year and a half, there is a legal burden. They're young men and they're not coming out of the hospital. And when a just verdict is handed down, it is unknown. In the case of local courts dealing with administrative matters, it is not only that citizens will wait years for a decision to resolve a conflict with the authorities. This will not add image to our state, and in such a case local courts should be governed by general legislative acts such as the Civil and Civil Procedure Code, special laws, the Code of Administrative Offences. In this regard, a clearer distinction is needed between the general administrative implementation and the implementation provided for in the Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u21	Thank you. We invite Yuri Carmazin, the faction of our Ukraine, to prepare for the Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u22	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. The honourable national deputies are, of course, a serious event is the introduction of the administrative and procedural code of Ukraine into this room, but I would like to treat it without euphoria and take it very carefully and seriously. The very creation of the system of administrative courts in the economic situation in which the state is now, we have to be very, very careful about how to set aside where to take all this money? What is provided for by the Law on the Court of Justice has not yet been created. It's my guess that you need at least 1 billion dollars. Let us take a good look at something when we create and view the possibilities of the State and whether we need to do something. And now I want to talk about the code. I'm only going to analyze the wrong things that are conceptually set up here. It seems to me that it is wrong to include in the system of administrative courts of local courts, general courts in their administrative decisions. It may be necessary to record that local general courts are likened to the administrative court in cases defined by the Code when they decide administrative matters. It is absolutely inappropriate to refer to a so-called, administrative agreement when the official management functions provide for the non-alternative behaviour of their participants. And the treaty is a category of civil law relations and it provides for conditions for reconciliation. So it seems to me that the concept of an administrative treaty, as it were, should be excluded from the code altogether. It seems to me that the Peace Agreement Institute, which is enshrined in Article 137 of this Code, has completely fallen here by accident, because it is reserved only for agriculture or civil justice. A peace agreement is seen as a compromise between subjects of private law to be administered for their own benefit. And if a public authority has given away a legal act that violates the rights of many, and someone has made a peace covenant for that reason, what should another person do? I also pay attention to conceptual things, article 2, "The task of administrative justice." Administrative courts do not check the decisions of executive authorities and local self - government and other officials who perform administrative functions to their satisfaction if they are accepted for their own discretion. The words "to reason" have to be thrown out and forgotten at all. That's the trouble of making decisions in our country for our own reasons. It should only be written "in the framework of the powers established by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine and in accordance with the objectives of these powers". In general, it seems to me that the first reading can be adopted, but the deadline for amending the second reading in relation to the serious volume and conceptuality of the code should be at least one month. In order for MPs to be able to work hard on this code so that it does not happen as the CPC is in a hurry, the CPC is in a hurry. Let us accept what the people say, what is being done quickly, and the blind will be born. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We'll decide next session Thursday. I would like to point out to Vasil Vasilovich that the decision does not contain a proposal to publish this project. Note when you vote. suggest a vote in the hall. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio is being announced for consideration. [[new editor]] Registration project 3283. Reports the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information to Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u24	Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine" faction, head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Dear colleagues! Before I talk about a bill whose new edition is absolutely necessary and urgent and this is what we talked about in the session room not once, I'd like to say literally a few strokes about a few moments of discussion about freedom of speech that is going on in Ukraine today, because you know. That the Supreme Council stands as the only source of information for people, because it's a direct broadcast on the radio and it's an opportunity to tell the truth. The fact is, recently, the Association of Media Workers has asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to send German Ambassador Hitler Studiman out of Ukraine, who seems to be interfering with Ukraine's affairs and misinterpreting that there is no freedom of speech in Ukraine. As chairman of the committee, I would like to state that both the Embassy of Germany and the Ambassador in all their applications and actions are absolutely correct and adequate with regard to assessing the situation with regard to the assessment of the situation with freedom of speech. And I didn't want this to cast a shadow on Parliament and on the other structures that work with Germany, the embassy from Germany, and I would still like to address the Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio. Let's open up this Masonic organization called the Media Workers' Association. All I know is that she's headed by Deputy Ivan Chiya Mr. Petrenko. Imagine the situation, we live in Ukraine, and the deputy head of the State Committee on Television and Radio is calling on the minister of foreign affairs to send an ambassador to another country. I mean, I don't understand anything. I just don't understand. Right now in the German press, they're going to talk about some serious structure that says thousands of journalists. Show me these thousands of journalists who haven't heard a word about someone offering to send a German ambassador from Ukraine. What are you talking about? Someone must be responsible for such claims. Similar statements were made about what the laws of the Supreme Council are bad at accepting, and the Supreme Council is pressing on the First National Channel, which wants us to act directly on the air. So I think the Supreme Council should have responded, and I thought it was necessary to consider this fact, as well as to say a positive fact before talking about the Nacradu. And I'll tell you, yesterday, the first precedent for a civilized settlement of disputes in Ukrainian television space, for which he wanted to thank both the owners and the directors of Kiev and Tet TV, you know, enough conflicting television companies about how they managed to sign the agreement, find a common language and split into different frequencies. Now the Kiev television company, if the National Council makes the final decision and the National Council members make the decision, will be on the 30th channel and Kiev will have its own capital channel, and TET will be on the 42nd channel. And this is a good example, like the founders and channel managers themselves, and the members of the National Council can arrange when it is necessary. They just need to make arrangements not now, but it is desirable for them to agree a year and a half ago when this conflict broke out. As far as our bill is concerned. I think that the bill is so mature and its standards are so well thought out and supported that you can see that there is now no member of the National Council as they are convinced that the Supreme Council is acting in the interests of freedom of speech. And it's in the National Council bill that's going to see it right. So they were convinced of honesty, objectivity, and decided not to come here. What have we changed in the new edition? We've completely reviewed the structure of the document and actually changed the nature of the National Council's work by granting licenses for their monitoring of law enforcement by radio organizations. The whole chapter is about because they have to analyze each year compliance with the law on advertising, compliance with the software concept, and they have to monitor monthly surveys on how many television organizations operate the way they took the license. You know, as of today, I've already said, practically no channel can withstand a license, only yesterday, with the National Council members, we were saying that there's so popular in us, there's half a percent of it there, maybe watching, the Graves Channel, which has been licensed to be an environmental channel. And it's going to enlighten the Ukrainian people about ecology, see what's on that channel. I can give examples through any channel that's completely inadequate in the context of software licenses. Second position. We've strengthened, strengthened the National Council from the point of view of representation in the regions. We write down the full status of the representative in the region, we write down how he's going to be assigned, and what he can do to respond to these massive violations of legislation regarding regional television companies, when they're being checked there ten times a month for no reason, they're trying to take money for additional licenses or other things. We write conflict matters in the very procedure of appointing and releasing the members of the National Council, which you know were debated in this room. And the role of the Supreme Council is increasing here, and it's very clear that we don't have a situation, as you know -- we've made a decision, and the President says, more specifically, Medvedczuk on behalf of the President says that he doesn't understand or interpret the law on the head of the National Council for Television and Radio. All of this is clearly described. And I'm convinced that after the adoption of this law in the first, and then in general, we won't have these ambiguities about the National Council. We have a much more detailed licensing procedure. What are dozens of courts today -- how do we announce the competition, how do we make a decision, how do we say no? Moreover, I would like to say that these changes are largely correlated with the fundamentals of the television and radio bill. I'd like to inform you that the committee would like to synchronize our discussion and the adoption of a new law on the National Council of Television and Radio and a new regulation on television and radio. Yesterday, a new television and radio editorial was registered in the Supreme Council. I'm glad that we made the only bill out of dozens of bills, and I think it's the best bill ever. And the author group in the composition of Alexander Zinchenka, Mikli Tomenka, Mikli Bagraev, Yuri Artemenko and Vladimir Yavorowski was able to complete and make a project that I think will be supported by a hall and will enable the quality development of the television market. Then we have the problem of speeding up the debate on the television and radio bill so that we can go at the same pace as we do in the Nacradu Act and in the TV and Radio Act, so that we don't have any crashes, and we acted quite adequately. Finally, I would like to say that you know that the Council of Europe similarly reminds us of European standards and the European approach to media legislation. Most of the rules of law, the verification of these standards, we have held a round table with experts from the Council of Europe on this issue and very many warnings about the existing National Council on Television and Radio, we have taken this position into account and I think, once the Supreme Council adopts it in the first reading, we will have a serious discussion between the first and second readings. Here is the First Deputy Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio, conceptually supporting us, having their own proposals. And I think we're going to agree on these proposals, more of this technical plan of technology, that the next time we listen to the National Council, we're going to talk about strategic principles of things, what the Ukrainian television shows is how competitive Ukrainian television is, how satisfying it is for our viewer, not debated on the legality or illegality of issuing that license, or on the possibility of opening a criminal case with a member of the Nacrad. I think that this report this year was the last one, and after we adopt this law, the next report of the Nacrada must touch exclusively quality parameters for the development of Ukrainian television. And I'm convinced that there will be enough professionalism in Nacradis and that we will have enough in the Supreme Council and a professional opportunity to adopt as quickly as possible a new edition of the Nacradia Act on TV and radio talk so that we don't get to the Supreme Council every day. Yesterday, by the way, I also received a call from the Winniek District Council on the increase of violence, violence in television. Once again, I want to say that the problem is, there's no problem with the Supreme Council here, we can't respond to every violation, we don't have authorization for every violation of the radio organizations. There's a problem with the Nacradis, there's a problem with the State Committee, and there's a problem, in principle, with the courts that need to be addressed, and legislation makes it possible to do so. So I think that everything about the Supreme Council, legislatively, we give Nacradi and the radio organizations the basis to enforce the law in advance, not to look for ways to break it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u25	Thank you. Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. Lighten up. The word is given by Yuri Solomatin, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u26	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Mr. Mikolo, the National Security Council recently addressed the issue of licensing and other similar devices in the field of drug use. What assessment did the President of Ukraine and the National Security Council have on this subject, you know, it's already common knowledge. Please tell me, is it not appropriate to consider the issue of licensing and the state of our television area on the National Security Council with the right conclusions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u27	You know my position. I think we'll go back to the report of the investigative commission that worked for us, the Supreme Council. Because if only we had heard the presentation piece. I'd do it the next way. So that all those things that are directly interpreted as corruption or can be interpreted as corruption, we have to listen to them and get them to the prosecutor's office. In theory or on the National Security and Defence Council. I personally have a lot of warnings about how to make decisions there. Because the last decision with the minister of ecology shows that we are not okay with the objective approach both in the Council of National Security and Defence. So it seems to me that all of the issues that concern us and we have doubts that there has been a license for corruption or illegal acts, we need to pass them on to the prosecution and open criminal cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u28	Bulba Stepanovich, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u29	Stepan Bulba, a faction of socialists, please pass on the word Stanislaw Nikolainko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u30	Turn on Stanislaw Nikolayenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u31	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party. I would like to refer to you, dear reporter, Comrade Tomenko Mikolo, please tell us how you appreciate the work of our National Council when, say, we have such examples. Our colleague, the first secretary of the Czernigow Communion of Mikola Rudzikowski, is illegally said to have been lying in the transmission of TCN "1+1." Yuri Lucenko, our director of the Socialist Party Press Service, addressed Pichovsek. Pochovšek admitted that there were errors, inaccurate information, distorted information personally by Lucenko. But instead, no one in Ukraine knew about it. I spoke recently about the situation in "Double Evidence," when, let's say, I was cut out as the head of a profile committee by all my speeches. I just sat there, excuse me for 2.5 hours, four times, no one said a single sentence, well, one phrase small. And where, for example, I criticized the President, the Prime Minister, the government and the failure to comply with the laws, everything was deleted. Or let's say other things. When this censorship is finally stopped politically, what the National Council is going to do, is it something we have to do to license and make money on it, or do we do business?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u32	I think there's a couple of ways. One way, you said, really, I asked the National Council repeatedly to take the block, for example, and consider equality of access to information, such as breaking the law. And you and I accepted, and the President signed after our parliamentary hearings. And we already have in the law on information we have article 45. One ban on censorship and banning the professional activity of journalists. That is, on the basis of this article criminal responsibility comes because we have debated that we have no definition of censorship and criminal responsibility. We already have it. So my suggestions are the following: since this is the norm, of course politicians would have to do the same. If you know that this is an application in the record, of course you must have the opportunity to have your text written down as you spoke and how you were filed. And I think we should just open criminal cases. As long as we don't open a criminal case of obstruction or political censorship, I don't think it's enough for the National Council to change this situation. We can do this ourselves. Because there's no other way out. What's more, you can see what the fight is going on with the Supreme Council as soon as we've made the decision to go straight to direct reporting of the activities so that the factions will be on the air. WHAT we haven't told you about the Supreme Council is that we're there and we're destroying the National Television Company, whatever we're doing, because we're asking, if you're in the record of your professional ethics and you don't have the right to show Nikolayenko's position, Rudzkowski's position, or Petrenko's there, then it's only on the air. And as a politician, for example, I tend to think that on programs like this, politicians should not go at all and demand linear programs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u33	Yuri Carmazin, our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u34	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter! Please tell me, isn't it a violation of the law, of how your committee is supposed to react, what happened yesterday to the President's appeal on all channels? My rights as a consumer have been violated. I didn't want to watch UTN, I just didn't want to. I turned on UT-2, sat on the job and turned it on, then looked, I had nowhere else to go, around the President. I thought that the war had begun, that the Ivory Coast had declared war on Ukraine. Well, thank God, it turned out that it wasn't war, or the President's turn was to the people, thank God. How, though, can we react? How do you propose to respond to the incident that took place today with the national MP Nikolaynko? [[channel "1+1"]] How do you propose to react to the fact that the "Era" channel is simply adopted, that is, stolen from the Ukrainian people today? How do you propose to do so?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u35	In each particular case, it's obviously different, and I'm as surprised as you are by the fact that the President's address in another way seems to be that last night the entire Ukrainian people are discussing this motion to the bill, and we MPs haven't received the bill yet, obviously, even though we've seen what it says to respond in some way. You know my position on the bill when I stood up for the idea of not meeting with the President for tea, and I'm surprised that factions leaders agreed to it, and I advocated the idea of direct broadcasting of the round table by the leaders of all factions, that the Ukrainian people would hear and that the President wanted to change the Constitution, that factions leaders wanted to change, so I don't think the courage and leaders of the faction needed to insist that the President's meeting was broadcast directly on air. So these violations need to be responded to, I say, where is the discovery of criminal cases, where in another way. The only thing I'd like to end with is an answer to a question about what, unfortunately, we have the scarier things, because the President can be endured and I think he can be president of Turkmenistan. You know, the President of Turkmenistan has now turned to three national channels, he's going to hand over a prize to that journalist, who's going to be the least of his praises, because he's tired of being praised all the time. I think Leonid Kuchma can also see through and hand over a bonus to that canal that will show him the least. But I would like one fact. I went to the Attorney General and reminded him that we had another vacchanalia for days. Journalist Vasil Kurjak of Poltavščina, who just wrote about the abuse of Poltava district officials in his private house, was shot at with a gun, dropped like during, you know, World War II, threw away bottles with an incendiary mixture. Fortunately, it all ended this way. He's alive, but if we have a gun shot and grenades fired for district officials' criticism, obviously we have to do something. I went to the Attorney General and I hope that he will respond to this fact because we are adopting laws, but there is real practice with freedom of speech and there are more problems in that practice than in our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u36	Thank you. Let's start the discussion. The word is Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine." Get ready for Yavorowski. Deputies! You're welcome to prepare yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u37	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The draft law introduced by the National Deputies of Tomenko, Artemenko, Boyk, Yavorowski on amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting is certainly a sign. Significantly, it is evident that people suffered from what they see today in the National Council and wanted this body to act in a transparent manner, and its decisions corresponded to the Constitution, were accessible to information subjects and to the public. That is why they foresaw both the grounds and the authority of the members of the National Council, and the reasons for the suspension of authority, including the permanent cessation of authority. And, of course, underlining the positive aspects of the law, I'm going to ask you to accept it in the first reading, but I would also like to make some critical remarks, regardless of what's going on, that project was reported by a member of my faction, Mikola Tomenko. To my critical point, I believe that there is a record of abuse of office among the late-term suspensions of a member of the National Council. If this abuse of duty is a criminal offence, it does not need a separate record — this is article nine — it must be removed from there. I think it's very appropriate to predict the early termination of the terms of office of the National Council and members of the National Council in the event of a statement of mistrust by the Supreme Council of Ukraine or the President of Ukraine. It makes a balance, a balance between branches of power, a substantial balance. And it is very well written that the head and first deputy head of the National Council cannot be appointed only by those elected by the Supreme Council, or only by the President of Ukraine. It also makes a serious balance. It's very good that the rotation is going, it's written down as it goes. But I don't think it's justified -- I'm talking to Tomenka -- that this law allows for a violation of the law without amending the radio spectrum law. This is article 15, which refers to the participation of the National Council in the distribution of radio frequency. I mean, in my opinion, the authority of the National Council, including the unwarranted expansion. I'd ask the authors, I'd ask for a profile committee, and here the authors and the profile committee meet in one person, and I'd ask you to remove this position as a violation of the Radio Frequency Act. In general, I'm "for" adoption in the first reading of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u38	Thank you. Here comes the invitation of Yuri Solomatin, a faction of Communists. Prepare for Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, the Communist faction, I want to start by saying that these are all our councils that have a national label, they're not really national. It's just a label, it's just a roof under which certain forces are politically or corporately solving their tasks. So in those circumstances, under the political system that has been established in Ukraine, this disgraceful drive under the cupbearer around the one who will take on more authority over the control of television and radio spaces, it will be forever. That's the first one. The other one. The issue of licensing. This is a general issue that hurts in general for all kinds of activities, not just in television. I did not accidentally ask my colleague Tomenko whether he considered it appropriate to consider the issue of licensing activities, the use of these licences, the control over their use on the National Security Council. My colleague said it's very interesting that I finally realized that on the National Security Council, maybe it's a question and it's not appropriate to look at it at all, because there's more of my individual interests. What I want to say in this context is that licensing is a key issue of any activity, whether in agriculture or in television, in drug use, in logging or in any other kind of activity. That's why we, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have to do everything we can to ensure that licensing is carried out transparently, that there are no tools around it, and that we can be sure that those licensing authorities will carry out the main task, namely, to control the execution of those licences that have been issued and to monitor, to monitor these licences under the conditions that they have been issued. And it's quite clear that he broke the yellow warning card, broke the red card twice, and immediately automatically revoke the license. It is from this point of view that this law is appropriate and that it can be supported in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u40	Thank you. Vladimir Cherniak. Get ready for Kenzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u41	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! Today we are considering an extremely important law. It is important in terms of ensuring freedom of speech in Ukraine, in terms of the development of democracy, of its prospects. And I think it's in this broad context that we need to look at it. I'd like to say right away that he's extremely right, and that's the bill that deserves to be supported beyond question. It's impressive that the very well-written novels of this law are trying to remedy the flaws that exist now. So this is an attempt to respond adequately to the situation in Ukraine's body and radio. Of course, first of all, it's a clearer definition of the licensing procedure. Of course, this should not be about the work of the Ukrainian National Television and Radio Society, but this is usually the most important question, as it is now the only one in my activity, unfortunately, and it is about making this procedure transparent, transparent so as not to allow the distribution, sale of television and radio space in a way that is detrimental to freedom of speech. And most importantly, emphasis has been placed on the need to abide by the conditions of licensing. The problem is that they usually don't. The license is issued under certain conditions. If the conditions are broken, the sanctions should work and even before the licenses are revoked. The bill focuses on a meaningful part, which is very important, and this is usually avoided. What should be the meaning of these transfers? You have to stop the blood that's pouring out of the screen all the time, the constant violence. And they are obliged, when licenses are taken, to give less, to give more. And they're somehow. That's what I'm We need to focus on the meaningful part, and this is done in the bill. Next. This is an imprecise mechanism for replacing leadership. For example: The Cold Supreme Council is taking down, the President is not, and there is no legislative solution to the question of how to implement a change of leadership procedure. And it's increasing the impact on regional governments. How to strengthen in regions and on the borderlines. If there are transfers from another country, how do we also regulate, how do we issue the license, that is, the whole set of issues that have not been dealt with sufficiently? I propose to adopt this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u42	Thank you. Jaroslav Kenzior. Get ready for Boris Bespalloma. If the offer is made, it is very modest to express your wishes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u43	Dear Chairman, dear fellow national MPs! It's kind of easy for me to talk about this problem that we're looking at today because I'm involved in television journalism. And today, not just today, and in previous times, when similar questions were followed up, these huge problems that exist in this field were identified. And proposed today for consideration, a new edition of the Ukrainian National Council of Television and Radio Broadcasting Act would no doubt take a step forward to at least partially address these problems and, in particular, problems related to the maintenance of freedom of speech in Ukraine and in the media. Today, it seems that Nikolayenko was talking about how sometimes in the existence of even those provisions of the Constitution, and according to the legislation, how can it be genius, as they say, to install one or another program, and when you're looking at the side of this television or radio program, it's just hard to recognize and be terrified: what it's made of. Even today I don't have a recipe as to what kind of law can be laid down, what are the provisions, which articles, so that, indeed, the position on freedom of speech will be maintained. How to lay down the positions to be laid out to be exterminated by journalists from the heads of the media of this internal censor. I want to give you an example: for more than 10 years on Lviv television, there were two issues on the air: the topic of creating a criminal clan in Lviv in the person of SDPU(o) and the tax administration, and raising the subject of this tax racket when the program here is said to have been blown off by the wind from the television programs of Lviv. For two years, I had to work hard to get the program back on track. And today, when I come out with an updated program, both the editor-in-chief, and the director of the studio, and the director, they beg, Mr. Jaroslave, don't touch the president, don't touch the CDC. [[I'm done.]] Bear, don't touch the district administration, and it's gonna be okay. How to ensure that the law does not provide for people who control the right media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u44	Thank you. Boris Bespali. I'm asking you to keep it tight.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u45	Thank you. Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I wanted to draw attention to two of the most crucial and fundamental provisions of the proposed changes that this bill is worth supporting. The first is transparency, which is the bill to increase the transparency of all of these key most imaginable, possibly procedures. This has to do with the assignment of direction, the distribution of resources, and so on. I think this is the first and very strong feature of this bill. And the second point is that things change a little bit. Today, the priority in the work of the National Council is to share something. The distribution of resources is a major subject of interest, maybe the most advantageous area of its activity, but the impression is that all the energy in this institution is essentially going right over here. In this way it is not transparent, so there are so many conflicts. And I think the second very important and positive feature of the proposed changes is that it proposes to change some priorities. That is, more, much more attention to regional work, because today it's clear that regional television companies need more care, care and support, and most importantly, support. And the second. These are control functions. It seems that the National Council is simply afraid to enter into this area, especially with regard to advertising. We've got inconclusive advertising, which is what we know, in the form of news, goes on a solid, not solid, and there's usually an ad in the form of news. Moreover, there is simply a direct disregard for the Advertising Law, which is still in effect, even though the new law is adopted in the first reading, but the old one acts, it must be implemented. It's not being implemented at all. Well, and what Mr. Jaroslav was talking about, which is simply a brutal abuse of executive and even higher than executive power of television broadcasting, the National Council does not notice all of this. And another episode that Rudzkowski's colleague pointed to a few days ago is Chernigov's. I think the National Council should also look into the prosecution's case when it was announced that something had been replaced, and in fact it was just brutal interference in the electoral campaign. This also indicates that parliamentary control is needed to ensure that the Broadcasting and Television Board exercises the control it should have exercised. And after all this, I propose. This bill is supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u46	Thank you, Mr. Boris. Mikhailo Jakovitch Onofreichuk, First Deputy Head of the State Committee. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u47	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich! Dear National Deputies! The State Television Committee, the radio broadcasts are sent to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council, for proposals to improve the structure of the proposed bill. The essence of these proposals is in particular to define more clearly the basic tasks, functions, powers, and competences of the National Council for Television and Radio. I think all these proposals will be taken into account together and made when the second reading drafts are being passed. With regard to the comments made at the State Committee’s address, these comments will draw the right conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u48	Thank you, Mikhail Yakovic. Let us conclude our consideration of this bill. We'll vote next session Thursday. A draft Law on the Commodity Exchange is being announced. In fact, it's about two bills -- government and parliamentary. The first bill will be reported by the First Deputy State Secretary of the Ministry of Economics and European Integration of Ukraine, Šumilo Igor Anatoliyovich. Please, Igor Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u49	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished national deputies, the honourable ones present! The draft new law is based on the experience of applying the current Law on the Commodity Exchange, introduced from 1.01.92, and solves the problems of legal regulation in this area. In particular, the state registration of the commodity market is proposed to be conducted in accordance with the order established by the enterprise legislation, a clear definition of the scope of the commodity market is established, this article third, the principle remains that the activity of the commodity market, that it does not engage in commercial transactions and cannot be a party to market agreements, is created solely for the purpose of organizing, implementing and regulating trade. The profits obtained by the stock exchange are not distributed among its members but are aimed at carrying out statutory market tasks. Considering that immovable property is a special type of goods and that the activity of their alienation is specific and requires a special legislative arrangement, the article defines that immovable property is not a commercial commodity. Commodities standardized by the commodity market regarding quality, quantity, terms and conditions of supply and performance are admitted to the market. This definition of market goods lays the legislative basis for the introduction of future trade. The draft law lays down the basis for the management of the commodity market. The higher body of administration is the general assembly of its members and in order to avoid the concentration of the management of the commodity market in the hands of a certain group of persons who would have the possibility of having an unlimited and uncontrolled impact on the commodity market by article 15 of the draft law, the exclusive competence of the general meeting of the members of the market, namely the establishment and control of the governing bodies, the identification of the main directions of activity, the approval of the regulations on the Exchange Committee, the Supervisory Board, the Audit Committee, the Arbitration Committee and the Executive Directorate. Decisions to stop the activities of the commodity exchange, etc. Articles 256, 27 of the bill regulate the types of contracts that are made on the commodity market by introducing the concept of a "market agreement" and establish that market trading can be carried out by members of the commodity market for the purchase or sale of commodity derivatives. This will ensure the release and circulation of future contracts and auctions, the basic asset of which is goods not currently available in the Ukrainian legislative field. Since stock market activity provides for the settlement of contracts made and the creation of a guarantee system for the implementation of contracts entered into, therefore clearing-house-accounting activities should be an integral part of the stock exchange activity. This is indicated in article 3. The urgent need for organized commodity markets is the availability of a special authorized executive body in the field of market market regulation. Similar regulators exist in all countries with developed commodity markets, and their need is proved by time. Article 7 of the new Law on the Commodity Exchange sets out its basic functions, and article 30 makes it mandatory for commercial markets to be accredited, that is, documented commercial market competences to conduct market activities. The adoption of the bill will, in our view, create an effective legal field for the operation of market infrastructures such as markets, promote harmonization of Ukraine’s legislation into European Union rules and regulations, and create legal principles for effective functioning not only of commodity markets but also of commodity markets. We are very grateful for the thorough analysis that was carried out by the Chief Scientific and Expert Administration, both in the draft law in the Cabinet of Ministers and in the draft law proposed by the deputies. We believe that most of the proposals that are in the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration are being heeded and should be taken into account, and we have hope that they will be taken into account in the second reading. I will allow myself to comment on the difference to a certain extent and to recall what is in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office that the project in the Cabinet of Ministers has the following positive decisions on the project proposed by the deputies, namely, a clearer definition of market goods, the creation of a supervisory board as a body to monitor compliance with the statute and the functioning of the Exchange Committee, the identification of market intermediaries, market trades, the possibility of brokering legal persons and the enforcement of market agreements and the accreditation of markets. [[Article 20, second project]] At the same time, the existence of a whole range of constructive regulations may be included in the final edition of the draft law, namely the right of the broker to verify the availability and quality of the proposed product, the ability of the buyer, and the full range of other proposals noted in the conclusion of the Main Scientific and Expert Office. We find it extremely necessary, the earliest adoption of this bill, and we ask that you support it in the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u50	Thank you, Igor Anatolyovich. I see the hands are pulling the national MPs. Please sign up for the questions. National MP Slabenko, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u51	19 constituency. I'd like to ask you the next question. In your speech, there was a phrase about crediting commodity markets, and how much does it correspond to today's terms, you know, how about this form, when you've been waved, changing licenses or granting some kind of permission by way of individual actions, actions that provide for the right to further work? That's the first question. And the second question. How many of your agreements mentioned in the new bill are they responding to with the new Civil Code of Ukraine and the Code of Hostages? Especially with regard to the terminology you use in your draft legislative act.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u52	Thank you for asking. With your permission, I'll start with a second one, and I said in my statement that we totally agree with the right points that are in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific Administration, first of all. And this is from page one, relative to the need to comply with the new Civil Code and the new Code of Hostages. I just want to remind you that the draft law in the Cabinet of Ministers was introduced in December and we think that these positions should be brought into line. And the second question. As far as this is concerned, this generally accepted practice, the world practice regarding the accreditation of commodity markets, will be determined by the order of this accreditation. And it's clear that we're set up to make it absolutely transparent and secure: on the one hand, the quality of accreditation, on the other hand, its competitiveness and transparency.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u53	Leonid Vernigore, Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u54	Leonid Vernigora, Ukrainian Socialist Party Dear reporter, I would like everything about bread to always be fair. Here's the stock law. We last year, you know, for 40 million, we took out the bread, although we know perfectly well that it's probably half. But the worst part is that we've kept half of it, and half of it. They're gone, they're sold. So I'd like to know, this stock market law, it can somehow improve not only the bill, or the availability, the yield and everything in the state, but also control how we spend it and where we don't buy two million tons again and today don't make decisions about not allowing food prices to rise. What are we doing today? Will this law do us any good, or will it not? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u55	Thank you for asking. I hope that this is the law that will allow you to solve the issues that you're talking about, and actually the commodity markets will become the place where they will be sold directly, and on the other hand the price will be the one that will be determined and generally the world market, they will be sold about 10 percent on average, but they are and should be trusted as to the place where they actually determine the price that they allow. On the other hand, the introduction in this edition actually allows you to build up a system of future sales and auctions, and this should again contribute to solving the problems that you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u56	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u57	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter, please tell me why the government is not going to make changes to the Civil Code, to the Economic Code, which is adopted, then there will be no need to reconcile, and there will be no need to install the law that is today -- about the commodity exchange -- that you are now introducing. And you didn't give an evaluation in your speech to an alternative project. As you can see. What you can count. Which, in your opinion, is better. Although I understand that it will be immodest to evaluate, we, the deputies, have to choose from two projects, of course. And I'd like to know how many more governments are going to go to patch up old laws instead of codifying and systematizing legislation?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u58	Thank you. The question is, it is also of such a systemic nature. I want to say that, from my point of view, the changes needed by a codex should be made directly to these codes. And that's a big job. But it does not prevent that, with regard to certain sectors of politics, their respective laws should be adopted. So we think that, on the one hand, it actually has to be consistent with the positions. And these positions are the right ones that have now found reflection. And again, I'm drawing your attention to the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. On the other hand, as I said, such a law as we think is absolutely necessary. Secondly, I tried to give based primarily on the findings of scientific expertise, and for me, they actually have a solid enough character to show how, and I even read them with your permission, the advantage of that editorial that was proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. I want to say that the general conclusion was that, as a result of the first reading, the draft Law on Commodity might be based on further comments and suggestions. And this was stated in the first conclusion regarding the drafting of the Cabinet of Ministers. The second law, it was submitted by the deputies later, this, I hope, was a joint work, and it took into account those proposals that were made by the Cabinet of Ministers. But let me read it again, as the conclusion put it. These bills are close to content and come out of the same general principles for the creation and operation of commodity markets as organizations that unite legal and natural persons. At the same time, the 2582 project, the Cabinet of Ministers project, is more successful than Project 2582 and 1. Although, as I said, there is a whole range of good positions, as well as in the old edition, which should be passed here, as well as in the proposals of deputies, which, in my view, should be taken into account in the second reading of the law. That's why I'm asking you to support a draft of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u59	Thank you. We finished the question. No, of course not. We're out of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u60	National deputy of Belarus. Dear Chairman, when I recorded the question, I pressed the button, dropped to five, and still went. What does this do to our technology?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u61	Well, I think I see your name, Oleg Grigorovovich, on the fifth floor, maybe you're looking at the wrong table, or let's give the secretariat a task.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u62	No, no, I wanted to ask a question, press the button, show five and never show again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u63	Maybe it's the wrong button, and now we're going to give the assignment to the right services, and they're going to check it out. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Announcing a document, Bill 2582-1. He is being reported by the National Deputy of Sicily Mikhailo Lukovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u64	Mikhail Sithina, 74 constituency, Carpathians, Ukrainian Agrarian Party faction. Dear Alexander Alexiyovich! Dear National Deputies! In 1991, Ukraine created the first markets to form the basis of an organizational commodity market. During this period, the Law on the Commodity Exchange was drafted, which has been in operation until now. The Supreme Council of the previous call passed the Law on the Commodity Exchange, but it has been vetoed by the President and so far there is an old law that does not reflect the development of the economy of the agro-industry complex and the organized commodity market as a whole. What are some of the problems facing commodity markets? In a purely classical way, markets trading exclusively in the market are becoming smaller and smaller at present. A group of market goods is expanding, new and new tools are emerging, such as commodity wood and auctions, which play a role as regulators in organized commodity markets. Moreover, a group of market goods is expanding. For example, it is known that in Israel there is a trade in precious stones, in Holland there is a market of flowers, and there is a strong aviation exchange. Let's say that's where there's no air construction in the country at all. This trend has also taken place in Ukraine. There are no classical markets that allow only registered brokering offices. The market runs auctions and open auctions. There is a need for a new law to reflect the trends that exist in practical market activities. What do we think is the role of markets in Ukraine? First of all, the commodity exchange is an economic indicator. Weak markets, lack of market markets talk about a sick economy. Why? There is no objective pricing, no batches of goods, no sick domestic producer, low purchasing power, no demand on the stock market. All of this marks the extreme inefficiencies of the market. And the stock markets react in their own way. One-day stock exchanges, one-day stock exchanges. According to the State Committee on Statistics, 500 markets are now registered in Ukraine. By the number of stock exchanges, you might find yourself boldly in the Guinness Book of Records. It is difficult to find a country in the world that has this number of markets, and the volume of sales in total turnover is less than 1 percent, 0.17. They don't have to comment, they speak eloquently for themselves. But the role of markets in Ukraine in the process of transforming the economy cannot be overestimated today. This is also the sale of property of state-owned enterprises in the process of privatization, the sale of property under tax, arrested, confiscated and alienated in the compulsory order. Deputies! Stock markets should become one of the key tools in shaping prices for agriculture, fuel oil and energy. Unfortunately, there is absolutely no result in this area. Strange things are happening. For three years energy trade has taken place on the interbank currency exchange, which has been registered as a fund, and has the right to organise trade exclusively with currency and securities. The law on securities and stock exchange is being enforced. Nobody cares, nobody notices, but it's just one little episode. In order for commodity markets to play a stabilizing role in the agricultural and energy markets, they need to be able to organize trade in timber products. This is a very relevant issue for Ukraine because the lack of financial support for agrarian and energy markets causes significant seasonal price fluctuations and the lack of a real stabilisation fund. There is no money in the budget for these purposes. The creation of a future commodity market does not require additional costs but requires only, firstly, the will of the National Bank to determine the soft requirements for clearing facilities. The other one. Securities commissions in the form of a mechanism for future contracts. The third is the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Agriculture, as part of the definition of the mechanism for the supply of market parties. Deputies! Exchanges should be a special place in auctions for the sale of land. In modern Europe there is no precedent for selling large volumes of land that will soon be realized in Ukraine. The conduct of land auctions will require high professionalism from co-workers and brokering offices, since the creation of a competitive environment can only be achieved by involving real estate professionals. It should be noted that it is the markets that allow for a transparent mechanism for purchasing goods and services at budget costs. If you formalize the procurement procedure and make it as an offer, you don't have to create tender committees, bring sealed envelopes into these tender committees, and just whoever buys the offer at an open auction wins the tender. In this case, Ukraine will take a step towards a competitive market, a step towards transparency and a step towards civilization. Based on the above and taking into account the successive legislative bases and the fact that the current Law on the Commodity Exchange has proved to be sufficiently effective, the proposed project takes into account all the positive aspects of the law in force. In addition, the current requirements of an organized commodity market and the 12-year experience of product markets are taken into account. Our country’s top professionals and the leading U.S. state of the U.S. trade market were involved in the drafting of this bill. This law will contribute to the development of an organized market market, the creation of a competitive transparent environment. It sets out the structure of the stock exchange and the order of the stock market, defines the market goods, first introduces and exposes the concept of open markets, auctions. . The concept of commodity trees, futures, and offers is noted and revealed. Reveals the meaning of this money. According to the draft law, there is a minimum capital statute that must provide a material basis for effective market functioning. We think it should be at least 500,000 dollars. The other one. The concept of an associate member on the stock market is introduced, meaning that it is a brokerage structure that does not take part in the management of the stock exchange, but only rents a brokering post for a certain term. Third. This concept of commodity is complemented by commodity derivatives, futures, and bonds that are allowed to trade on the commodity market as a commodity. At open auctions, auctions may not be displayed on the market, including real estate, and they may not be offered by members of the stock exchange. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a separate point that the main issue that did not allow the previous parliament to adopt the Law on the Commodity Exchange applies precisely to the sale of real estate in the market market. The long struggle against the ban, the conclusion of civil contracts on commodity markets, and the legal nature of the sale of real estate have generally resulted in negative consequences. Instead of identifying the specificities of the stock market with this product group, namely, establishing a special registration order, we have even excluded this group from the organized commodity market. As a result, the lack of reliable operational information on market prices is totally out of market forecasting, and this is a condition for the ever-increasing demand for shadow sales and corruption. How much is the land worth today under construction in Kiev, Odessa, Donetsk, and other large cities? How much do land plots cost for housing in the center of large cities, who can answer today’s notary, land administration? Obviously, the issue hangs in the air, which means you can rob the state. It would also be necessary to establish order in the registration of real estate agreements, and we have destroyed the real estate market itself. Real estate should be sold at auctions organized by the Commodity Exchange. The information should focus on commodity markets, but as a result of the auctions, rather than a sales contract, rather than an auctioning protocol, and then, if the legislation requires a notary certificate, the buyer and the seller form an appropriate document in the notary, if not, the contract is concluded between the buyer and the seller without a notary certificate. This practice takes place today in the implementation of Ukraine's Small Privatisation Act. When auctions are held, the property that is in a tax mortgage. In conclusion, I think it is appropriate to adopt this law and I hope that it will contribute to the development of the agro-industrial sector, the raising of living standards of the population and the development of Ukraine's economy. And in conclusion, what I want to say is that our law, which was developed by the MPs and the law, the two laws were in principle passed by the Cabinet of Ministers, are virtually the same, but ours is distinguished by the fact that it gives more transparent work on the trade market, it brings virtually zero control of the state, and the law that was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, it reinforces the role of the state. And the question is, does it need a law that interferes with work and controls the stock market? I'm asking you to support our bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u65	Thank you, Mikhail Lukich?). Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. Let me explain. Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u66	I actually had a question before the first deputy secretary, but since our colleague is the author of the bill, I want to ask you a question. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region I have a quick question. Please tell us how many commodity markets are operating in Ukraine today and which of them have a bearing on trade, or on agricultural production. Exchanges licensed for agricultural activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u67	Thank you for asking. In general, I have already said that there are five hundred markets in Ukraine today, and it can be said that there are only a few markets that today can only handle agricultural production. But unfortunately, none of them have the potential to do so, and they have no experience. And that's why we're introducing a bill, and that's our difference between a bill that was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers that we just want a statutory stock exchange to raise to 500,000, and then there wouldn't be so-called day-olds like I said, Dwarfs and those that would have a statutory fund of 500,000, they could also create the human potential for transparency and professionality of these markets. And I think that's one of the main issues that needs to be asked -- increasing the statutory fund to create a material, technical and human base for the creation of markets.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u68	Thank you. National Deputy Cherniak, Our Ukraine. Get ready for Carmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u69	Dear Michael Lukovich, I am impressed by the high professionalism with which you have reported the very law at a high professional level. I think we're going to accept, maybe combine something with the government. The law is in time. But at the same time, I'm very troubled by the question of creating a competitive market environment with the help of markets and, in particular, price formation. Moreover, grain price formation. We know that the prices of grain are not very well shaped, at a low level, traders are using the situation, and the appropriate role is not played by the stock exchange in price formation. How will the adoption of this law improve the price formation situation, and in particular the price of grain? And the second question. Still, do you think he'll get a future trade after this law is passed? Is this law enough? Is there anything else that this progressive and promising form of trade in Ukraine will require? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u70	Thank you for asking. I think by asking the first question you answered the second question. As far as price formation is concerned, if there is a project in which the Cabinet of Ministers submits, they refer to the fact that there is no civil code or other code that affects them today, there is no such commodity policy or concept. They are, but they are not written down, and there is no need to be written down, and in other legislative acts it is necessary to describe what futures are, what the occupier is, and so on, and what the offers are. And if these commodity trees are actually being marketed, then we're not going to say that today the grain costs 200 dollars, and the autumn is going to cost 1200 dollars. And we're going to be selling not the product itself, and it's the differences that we have with the Cabinet of Ministers that they want to regulate, and I'm saying they have to regulate the market. In fact, they will not sell the goods, but they will sell the rights. And by doing that, we can stabilize prices not only for grain but for other kinds of products. And it was very bad when the previous law did not work, for example, there was a large group of goods that were not admitted to the stock market, the same real estate. The point is not to sell goods on the market and not to be legally formed, but only to set a competitive price and assess the product. And it's the stock market that allows price policy to be stabilized for all kinds, not to rule out grain or agricultural products.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u71	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u72	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear reporter, please tell me the same question as with the government representative to you. Why we and you, including the authors, are going this way not to change the civil code or the farm code, because the nature of a favorite stock market is civil law relations. And you're going back to that disgraceful path that we've been on for all these years. We have bred almost 3,000 laws. And you're going in the way of cloning the laws, stamping these laws. And I'm not saying that this law is now considered an alternative. However, the regulation defines that it can be alternative if given within three weeks. So it's filed, it's government filed in December, it's filed in March, it can't be considered alternative. That's why I have these questions. Did they torture the authors before the introduction of this law? I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u73	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Thank you for your answer. I want to tell you about whether or not the authors of the project want to change the codes. Yes, we are not saying that today all codes are perfect, starting with civil codes and ending with other codes. And maybe there are some contradictions in this today, but I would say that today we have to write a law that corresponds to today's state of society, and if it wasn't included in one of the codes today's situations or a mistake made, then it has to be corrected, not experimented on. And it's our law that takes into account that there may not be any connection with the civilian, first of all, and the farm, but that doesn't mean that we don't have to change or make any minor changes to the Civil Code or the Code of Hostage. And I'm here to make changes, and the laws to make, and our law on goods and directly ours, made in accordance with today's situation, in accordance with that experience. which was made in 12 years of commercial markets in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u74	Thank you, Mikhail Lukovic. We used it all the time on the question. Have a seat, please. The co-report invites the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Economy, Property and Investments, McKeenko Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Please, Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexiyovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, the Administration of National Economy, Property and Investment at its meeting reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Commodity Exchange, issued by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Commodity Exchange, a new edition, introduced by the People's Deputies of Ukraine, the City of Sietina, Bachevo and Ratushniak. Both projects are aimed at further improving the legal regulation of the creation and operation of commodity markets in Ukraine. The Laws take into account the shortcomings of the Commodity Exchange Act, which has been in operation since January 1, 1992, namely, the introduction of substantial new positions and the principle of new concepts for commercial trade in goods under the conditions of scientific relations. The main scientific and expert management, in its conclusion number 16/1-463, notes that the draft Ukrainian Law on the Commodity Exchange of the Government can be adopted on the basis of the first reading, taking further account of the comments made by the administration. In conclusion, according to number 16/3, the General Scientific and Expert Office notes that the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Commodity Exchange, introduced by the People's Deputies, can be adopted in the first reading on the basis of further comments and suggestions made by the Administration and its subsequent merger with Bill No. 2582, submitted by the Government. Since these bills are very close to content and come out of the same general principles of the creation and operation of commodity markets, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Commodity Exchange Number 2582-1, introduced by the People's Deputies, in the first reading on the basis. The second reading will take into account all the provisions contained in the government’s draft Ukrainian Law on Commodity Exchange introduced by the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u76	Thank you, Volodymyr Volodymyrovich. Is there a question for a coconspirator? None. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is Yuri Carmazin, prepare for Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u77	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill on the stock market today. What is the nature of these legal relations that are governed by this code? Their nature is civil law. With the validity of the Civil Code, with the coming into force of the Code of Lords, there were questions about how we could fill them, complemented them with concrete content, reconciled them, improved them, and made it easier for our citizens of Ukraine today to use almost 3,000 existing laws, and also those laws that lost the validity to be used. I just want you to understand what we're doing in the rule of law. We do a great crime every day with you on the Supreme Council when we don't do systematization, we don't do the codification of legislation. I'm addressing the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, I'm addressing Prime Minister Janukovich, there's a vice-premier on Mr. Tobacco's Humanitarian Block. People are good! Think, please, about legislation! If you think about it, I'd love to. In order to reconcile those draft laws that you have introduced today on the commodity exchange with the new Civil Code of Ukraine, so that you can reconcile them with the Master Code of Ukraine, and it is entirely right that the Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should write in article 1 the definition of the commodity exchange as "not an entrepreneurial society that combines business entities with the purpose of making them trade." That's absolutely correct, because according to the 209 Civil Code, on the demand of a natural or legal person, any right of participation may be notarized, it's a person's right, and we're writing that there's no need for stock market contracts to be registered. It must be written that in addition to the cases provided for by the Civil Code and the citizen’s right to require such registration. I don't want the stock market to register anything. And I have a question for the government, for all the national MPs. And if I propose now, I'll take Yuri Carmazin, and I'll offer you a law on the stock market. So is the name of the Law on the Uncomforted Stock Exchange, and I'm going to offer to trade it in intellectual property. What, are we going to pass the law on the uncomplicated stock market? Well, it's intellectual property to trade, to settle. You know, we're about to get to the frost. So I'm asking you, honourable national deputies, to step aside and let's do codification and systematization. In general, I've analyzed both draft laws, although it's not my government, although this government is carrying out a criminal programme, I want to say that the government project is much better. This is the first time. And the MP had no right to be registered as an alternative because it was given in contravention of the regulation later than it had to be. So I'm going to say that on the first reading you can consider and accept government. With the remarks I've made, and I still have a lot of comments about the inadequacy of the civil and the farm code. And if they don't answer, what's the point of the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u78	Thank you. Mikhailo Melniczuk. Get ready for Blackie and take the risk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u79	Dear Alexander Vasilovich, the honourable colleagues who have remained in this room, I am referring to the bill that was introduced to amend the Ukrainian Law on Commodity Exchanges. I can put it this way. Of course, the proposed bill, both to the government and to our fellow MPs, needs some kind of consideration and support. If there weren't a lot of questions about transparency. And some of the government's drafters, like the reporter here reported, and our colleague was talking about transparency. The point is that when we are looking at and adopting a bill in the hall, it is transparent. In fact, after being accepted, there is nothing, not transparent, that is nothing to be found there that is valuable to our people. Because like these bills, it's going to go through the hall, if the check is a plus, so they're going to vote, most of them are, and there's no need for me to go through the bill or against it. Of course, it is proposed to harmonize and make such changes to articles 1, 2, 10, 28 about the Ukrainian Civil Code. And to organize some articles of the Codex of the Master in order to bring the bills presented into line today is being considered in this room. As far as I'm concerned, I'd like to comment on Article 10 of the Statuteary Fund on contributions made to the statutory fund. Here the drafter of the bill from the MPs spoke of the need to record 500 grand. Perhaps that is the case. Maybe this is going to be a statutory fund, and he's definitely going to find it. And I think that the corresponding changes that are proposed in this context are needed in article 279 of the Ukrainian Code of Masters, and should be made. In my opinion, it is a failure to present article 15 about associate members of the commodity exchange. This is a failure just because these people are not stockholders, they are temporary users of trading venues. And so here, I'd say it's a bit of a failure. As far as 500 commodity markets are concerned. I mean, according to that information. which I have today, as co-chairs of the interim commission of inquiry into the market for grain and bread, 28 grain markets are operating today. These 28 grain markets have robbed the peasants by 7.6 billion. That's right. And I think that in the near future, Ukraine will recognize the families of these stockholders who led these markets and did what they did to our village -- they made a rich peasant poor and did what they did today, there is no grain and there is no bread. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u80	Thank you. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u81	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! We are looking at a very important bill today, without which it is virtually impossible to form a civilised market in Ukraine without which it is impossible to create a competitive market environment and, at the same time, a transparent competitive market environment. The most important problem of market trade is the issue of pricing -- how to form a price that would be an adequate moment in time, a perspective. That's the main question. I remember being in the U.S. in Kansas City on the stock market. This is a specialized commodity exchange of grain, such as red wheat. And what price is set on the Kansas City stock market, is the price of grain in all states, and so is the price of grain practically around the world. This is the role of the commodity exchange. I'd like to make a point. The stock market sets the price rather than sells the goods. That's what's important. The stock market should be traded. The market is a commodity pricing mechanism and it can sell the right to sell goods. It sets the price and the right to sell the product. And that's the emphasis that the MPs put in the bill. In this regard, I cannot agree with Deputy Karmazin, who believes that the bill of government should be a foundation, not a deputy. I have nothing against the government bill, it has a lot of right things to do, and I think we're going to have to take them into account. But I think the profile committee is the right thing to do, and I'm also part of this committee. What is needed as a basis for adopting the MP's bill and taking into account in the process of preparing for the second reading all that is right, all that is wise, well, let not forever what is in the government bill. Of course, there is a problem of reconciling the bill with the Civil Code and the Code of Hostages. It's an attribute requirement, and there can't be another language here. If the bill is not in conformity with the Civil Code and the Master Code, it cannot be accepted. Here I fully agree with Deputy Carmazin. But there is another question: The Civil Code or the Master Code does not meet the needs of today’s day and the prospects, so we are innocuous in adopting laws. What we have recently accepted is not an argument that we should not change. And if there's a need, I can tell you what I need to do to get the laws in line with the Civil and the Master Codes. But at the same time, if necessary, the need to change, to make changes to the Civil Code. So not necessarily, but on both sides, we're going to look at it. Dear colleagues, I suggest you take the first reading, lay the foundation for the MPs and take into account the right proposals from the government bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u82	Thank you, Volodymyr Kirilovich. I would just like to point out that the requirement to stress codification is absolutely correct and should be used not only in the discussion of this bill, but all others, because it applies to the whole philosophy of the adoption of new legislation. We have concluded our discussion of the matter. Let's move on to the draft law, I'm sorry, but that's a committee requirement. They offered 30 minutes for consideration. We're out of time and we're out of time. Then I'll make a comment just to the committee. When they mark and propose five minutes for consideration, that means five minutes and a half of the national MPs. Then let them make adjustments. But we ran out of time. For reasons, please, Oleg Grigorovitch Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u83	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Ukraine may have started a subterranean economic miracle, an economic trade based on trade. There are 500 markets. But they only give 0.17 commercial traffic. It's absurd and nonsense. If you look closely at the two bills that are going to change the law in force. In 1992, these two bills are not yet in line with the requirements of modern European regulation, and more than Cherniak described it as a global trade of Kansas City stock exchange. I've been thoroughly familiar with these laws and the observations of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, and there are so many comments that we need to introduce them first, correct them, bring these bills into line with the Civil Codes and especially the Master's Codes, and then adopt them in the first reading. So on behalf of the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, I propose the first rereading on the basis of the importance, especially the importance of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u84	Thank you. The question has been considered. Here we go to the draft Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act on the decision of the executive branch, registration number 2528. Reporter: Head of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy, Schoolnik Leonid Semenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u85	Dear Chairman, distinguished deputies. I'm the head of the committee. I'm the deputy head of Voronkov Anatoly Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u86	I apologize, but I had to prove and report and make the right decisions. There is. Really, I'm sorry. Anatoly Mikolayovich Voronkov, deputy head of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u87	Warnings and suspensions of consumer rights violations are the main objective of the State protection of consumer rights guaranteed by the Constitution. An analysis of consumer market conditions shows that nine out of ten audited commercial and service operators violate the legislation on the definition of citizens’ rights as consumers. The consumer market is saturated with innocuous, counterfeit, and life - threatening products, especially foods, alcoholic beverages. It is known that the main deterrent is not the harshness of the punishment for an offence, but the inviolability of it. Therefore, the main purpose of the amendments to the bill, which is proposed to your attention, is primarily the irreparability of punishment as the basis for an effective guarantee of prevention. Public authorities for consumer rights cannot fully apply to violators the effects of article 23 of the Consumer Rights Act in the absence of a mechanism to impose fines in the absence of voluntary payment. Formerly a violation of consumer law by decree of 14/04 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In 94 C.E., number 236 was approved to impose a fine on operators, whereby, in the event of a failure by the owner of the decision to impose economic charges, a corresponding state tax inspection at the place where the operator was found was carried out for 15 days. In view of the loss of validity of the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers concerning the collection of unpaid taxes on non-taxable payments, the mechanism for forcing the public budget of fines not paid by entities in a voluntary manner has ceased to work. As a result, only in the last two years 2001-2002 have almost 50 per cent of the fines and sanctions provided for in article 23 of the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act remained unconstitutional. The government budget did not receive nearly 8 million dollars. The bill stipulates that in the event of failure by economic operators to implement decisions, regulations imposing financial sanctions for violations of consumer law in a voluntary manner, the enforcement of such decisions will be carried out by the State enforcement service in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Enforcement. I would like to draw the attention of the National Deputies to the fact that the adoption of amendments to this bill does not in any way violate the rights of landowners to judicial protection of their rights. They are always able to challenge the decision of the body to protect the rights of consumers in accordance with applicable legislation. The adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act will contribute both to the prevention of violations and to the full implementation of its powers by the State party. Moreover, this will also contribute to the replenishment of Ukraine’s state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u88	Is there a question? Well, sign up, please. Have you considered it short or not? Short cut. Please. Borszewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u89	Please give the floor to my colleague Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u90	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u91	Thank you very much. Yuri Solomatine, Communist faction, Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. Dear reporter! We've recently considered here in the session room a bill on control, quality and petroleum products, and there was such a suggestion that the Minecoresurs would take over part of these functions from you. And there was this information that was tested for 10 percent of the autofuels. The quality of petroleum products was violated by percentages. First of all, gasoline. What will you say about this, and how do you feel about your committee’s offer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u92	First of all, I can tell you that, according to this, we already have a plan, because our services only have to carry out checks on the premises when the scheduled inspection is planned, or there are consumer complaints. So on the third quarter of this year, we're already planning a thematic plan for oil testing because. It's a plan to move on. The other one. In accordance with the law, we have both performed and will perform protection functions for the rights and interests of consumers. The test material will be adequately responsible, and after it is done, we will let you know. That's my position.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u93	Melniczuk, please. Kostinuk. Bogdan Costinjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u94	The People's Movement of Ukraine, Our Ukraine, Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear reporter! You didn't seem to say that the norm had already been in place, and it was functioning that in 2000 the Cabinet of Ministers had lost its validity since 1994 on the order in which to impose the charges on entrepreneurs in a forced order. By the way, it was in Victor Yushchenk's time, and it was this position that was evaluated as. The effect of this position was assessed as additional pressure on entrepreneurs. And then the relevant authorities of the State Tax Service had the right to impose a 20-day imposition on them. What pushed you today to introduce this bill and why you're not introducing other bills, for example, so that your petitions to the court will be accepted, let's say, without paying the taxes or predicting the money in the budget, it's much simpler. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u95	Please, I just told you in my report that the possibility for the State Tax Administration to withdraw in an undeniable manner has been disabled. And in the last two years, I'm going to say again, without the irreversibility of punishment, it doesn't work. 50 percent of the charges that are not charged, or accepted as reliable, and the truth of their application is accepted. But they're not paid. That's the first one. Every year almost half of these administrative strings are not performed. Second, according to the court's ruling. You know what kind of stream there is today in court cases, but we're ready to work with it. Three times our committee called on the Ministry of Finance to make our appeal to the court, a total of about 200,000 dollars. It was either our allocated funds, our budget is projected, or it's free of charge. Minfin denied us three times in this right, Minfin refused three times. Therefore, there is a norm when not only in one of our laws, when there is a state executive service that needs to carry out, according to the consumer, the protection of its interests and the protection of the State, and reach for administrative obligations. The other one. I said that this does not put any pressure on the subject of entrepreneurship. He has the right to charge his own, and it is provided for in administrative order, if he has not complained, it is a law, it is legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u96	Vladimir Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u97	Dear Leonid Semenovich, do you think, is enough of the change you are proposing to address the problem of increasing the responsibility of those who violate consumer rights? I feel like it's not enough, and maybe we should give a new version of the Consumer Rights Act and write out very clearly all these mechanisms, sanctions, responsibility. Because this is being done on a massive scale, you know very well that these decisions are not being implemented, they are not being applied, and even the decisions of the court are not being executed. And our consumers are suffering from this, and we need some more effective, effective consumer protection mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u98	I'd like to say that I totally agree with the question asked, and I just wanted to say after your first sentence, I thought it turned out that it wasn't, so I can't say that it would solve all the questions. This is one of the steps that we need to complete, and now we're working on a new version of the Consumer Rights Act. At least to say that we are beginning to think about the implementation of EU legislation. And for us, on consumer rights issues, the Cabinet of Ministers has already signed the 19 directives of the European Parliament to implement our legislation. And so they're lying down with two of these big layers, and this is a bill on advertising that you've already adopted in the first reading, and it's implemented there. And secondly, the Consumer Rights Act. We have already carefully informed us, Leonid Semenović, head of the School's Committee, that, at a meeting of the Supreme Council, we are only making and making partial changes to the law, which we already have, so to speak, clearly stated that it is necessary to resolve the issue once and for all. We're already working on a comparative table that's already been drawn up, and we're going to study the European Parliamentary Directives by the end, and I think we're in line with the consumer rights programme approved by the President's decree last December, 2004 is the year when we should make changes to the consumer rights law. I think your point is correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u99	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Associates the head of the committee’s Subcommittee on Social Policy and Works, Bondarczuk Alexander Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u100	Bondarczuk, Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Dear Presidents and Peoples' Deputies! To date, there has been a situation in which there is virtually no mechanism to recover fines for a violation of the sale of goods in markets, businesses of trade to our citizens, consumers. This leads to the fact that the trading entity is carrying out unquality goods or goods which do not conform at all to certificates that are subject to some kind of production. In fact, there are no mechanisms for influencing such acts. The rapporteur, in general, presented the situation here in more detail. I'd like to add only one to that. It is not only that we are losing our income in the budget, but also that we are harming the health of our citizens, who are still more than the business actors who work in trade. The bill was considered by the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. It is recommended that it be accepted as a basis. There is a positive opinion of the Scientific and Expert Division with a small note. which could be taken into account in the second reading of the bill. The conclusion of the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine is also positive. Please support the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u101	Okay. Alexander Vasilovich, and if so 2037. Please, there's no denying if he's going to report two draft laws, and then we'll go back to that and. Let's hear more. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u102	According to Bill 2037. Respectable People's Deputies, since a new version of the Ukrainian Law was adopted in 2002 of the Consumer Protection Act. There is a need to amend certain laws of Ukraine and these changes relate exclusively to terminology. That is, the bill is proposed to amend the Advertising Act and the Administrative Offences Act, the Code of Administrative Offences. In fact, the terminology of these laws has not changed, in accordance with the Consumer Protection Act. The only comment was made by the Scientific and Expert Division to the bill that we could not change the provisions yet in the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. It is therefore proposed that the rules of these provisions be translated into law. On the other hand, there is no comment on this bill and our Committee on Social Policy and Labour proposes to adopt it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u103	Thank you. Anatoly Mikolaiovich, is there anything to add to 2037? Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u104	I would like to point out that if earlier the protection of consumers' rights was the State's executive and consumer rights committee, then it was the state standard, and today it's the technical regulation committee of consumer policy. This introduces a unified name for the central executive body on consumer rights. Then, after each change, the name of the committee should not be changed, it should not be used to load the work of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u105	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich. Next Melniczuk. Please. So you can express yourself by two laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u106	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. I'm pointing out to the chairman that under two laws, one rule, you can't tell. But they're small, they're laws, and they're principled. The principled, first of all, to the unscrupulousness of the government, which once again offers us, distracts us into petty laws. Notice, distinguished national MPs. You are asked to complete the law, article 23 of the Consumer Rights Act, one part: "In the event of failure by the entities of the economic activity of the decisions, the decision of the executive authorities to impose the obligations imposed, the enforcement of such decisions is carried out by the State enforcement service in a manner established by the law of enforcement." This is all that changes are made to the law. I pay attention to trifling, Viktor Janukovic would be ashamed to sign such a document because without it it it would be possible to live and not distract the Supreme Council. But, you can see, for more than yet, we lack the capacity of intellectual government, so I urge them, please, you already have ministers on relations with the Supreme Council, already in each ministry, deputy officials in connection with the Supreme Council, although this is a complete nightmare, it is not necessary to do so. But things aren't getting any better. First of all, this bill, I understand, should be aimed at the inviolability of punishment for an offence. Yes, I think the question was being asked by the State Committee, and we know that it is the Schoolmaster who is responding to our questions that we see that he was responding qualitatively. So in this way, if we don't make other changes, the decision won't be implemented. I'll show you why. The implementing law provides that the requirements to be set out in the implementing document should be met. In the event of a non-compliance of the implementing document with the requirements provided for in Article 19 of this Law, the executing State postpones the opening of the implementing instrument and returns the implementing document to the body that issued it. This is article 27. Thus, under this law all decrees will return. Why? Because the decree, as it should be, is approved by your order of the State Committee of Standardization, and it does not comply with article 19 of the Enforcement Act. There is no date and place of birth of the debtor, no account numbers in credit institutions for legal persons. So if you don't make any changes today, it doesn't make any sense. That's the first one. The other one. As for the second bill, because Hennady Andriyovich proposes to discuss the two issues immediately, I would like to say that it is proposed to amend the provisions that were approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, although these issues must be settled solely by law and not by the Supreme Council's ruling, because this is contrary to the Constitution, article 92 of the Constitution, "Legal principles and guarantees of enterprise must be determined solely by law." Thus, the changes proposed today under the second law of 2037 do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, such as Article 92, paragraph 8, of the Constitution. I draw attention to the unscrupulousness and ignorance of the Constitution of Ukraine in preparing these issues for the report of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the people of Ukraine. And I point out that these questions just don't work out for a bite.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u107	Thank you. Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich, please. The next one is Bogdan Kostinjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u108	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region In fact, two bills cannot be put into one rule, but I will do my best to express my opinion, as did my colleague Carmazin. According to Bill 2528, the government bill proposes to amend article 23 of this law. Of course, we come out of this kind of thinking, and what this will do to our consumers today, the Ukrainians. Will they be protected when the authorities today say we have such fines and have not reached Ukraine’s budget of 8 million dollars. Generally speaking, the powerless authority is now the executive, and we are making changes and proposing to the central authorities of executive power all this work to protect consumers, to combat what is today in the country, the central executive authorities should do so. I think it's too much trust in central executive power. And what the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is proposing about changing the power system, it's matured today, and it needs to be done now. Why? There's too many excuses for that. Let's take the Chernobyl area. Can the head of Theophile Bauer protect consumers today? Oh, no. He's busy with others. He's busy because the forests are helping to get tens of thousands of cubes out of Bukovina because there's a suitable factory for processing this round forest in Austria, he's contributing because of the closed woodworking industry in the area. It's his credit. And it's probably what the president and others are holding today. And he motivates me to be opposed. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Why doesn't the President understand that when the press and the rights and the left and the central press and the whole press are against Bauer's leadership style, today it's opposition. Who, then, is not the opposition? Not the opposition, they're the ones that Mr. Bauer is feeding on the Bukovin. And his staff policy is standing up. Can the heads of the Paradise Management, Gladchuk in Novoselica, Kolotilo in the Vision protect consumers? They protect themselves and their environment and protect their own interests. Because after the actions of these cadric woes, who have no experience behind their shoulders at all. Well, Kolotilo, yes, even though he was working and Gladchuk was not sure how he came to be in such a powerful area as Novoselica. And you can see his style of work there. Your interests and nothing else. And the area collapsed. Is the executive power today capable of protecting consumers? No, it's not. That is why such authority does not have the right to exist. Such authority cannot continue to rule the people of Ukraine. And it is imperative to change the political system of power. I've already read the bill that the President passed on the changes to the Constitution, so yes, you and I have lived with your colleagues to see what will be the law of the court -- and we're not here in the courtroom. And you know how the court can solve a question. I conclude, Hennaday Andriyovich, because there are no two bills. 2037 needs to be supported as well as 25. I apologize, 2528 and 2037 need to support the bill, because it will not solve anything for the protection of our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u109	Thank you. The word is given to Kostinyuk Bogdan. Next Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u110	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear National Deputies! The bill proposes to introduce a rule that states that if an economic operator in the field of public food and services does not voluntarily implement the decision of the executive authorities to impose a fine, then it would be forced to do so by the State enforcement service. Seems like a good offer at first sight. The fines will be paid at the proper time and the State budget will be received, and the courts will not be overloaded as they are now overloaded. But this is only at first glance, for this rule would have the right to exist in a normal way. In a state where there is normal power. Let's try to model together what's actually going to happen if this proposal becomes a force of law today. And then there's the next one. A representative of the executive branch will approach the entrepreneur. Notice, not a representative of the executive authority in the area of consumer protection, but any representative of the executive authority will say something like this. Dear entrepreneur, if you don't want us to make a forced withdrawal tomorrow for the intended reasons, you're gonna have to "lunch the beak" today. Thus, the adoption of this law is a relegation of the state racket in a state where, by definition, "tax pressure" is generally understood, not by such high tax levels, but by the pressure of the tax administration, but with it, the pressure of sanstaries, firefighters, militias, various control bodies, whose individual representatives are still in line today as a small entrepreneur in the field of public food and services trade, in order to cope with even their own and shadow revenues. I'm returning a fellow MP who's just been speaking out, that we need to take this law more seriously. Once again, I would like to emphasize that this is the legalization of a state racket. Why did the bill come into existence? It turns out that in 2000, there was the Cabinet of Ministers' position since 94, and it lost its validity as "The Order of Impairment for Entrepreneurs in Force." And then the relevant authorities of the State Tax Service were entitled to a 20-day, 10-day deadline for imposing a fine on the subject of entrepreneurship. Then it was in the time of the government of Victor Yushchenk that such cases were to be brought to a standstill. What is the argument behind our distinguished State Committee on Technical Control of Consumer Policy? It turns out that neither he, the committee nor his territorial authorities in the protection of consumer rights have any funds to pay public duties and other court expenses. And such arguments are considered serious by the State Committee, agreed by ministers and signed a submission to the Supreme Council, probably not reading there, the vice-premier rather than predicting money in the budget, or Minfin, and this committee is--it's the Cabinet of Ministers. Honor was not agreed upon by a single representation and a protocol of differences - this is the former head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Regulatory Policy. It would be interesting to know what the new Head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship thought about this law. I don't know, maybe he wasn't invited today, but I'd like to invite him. My opinion is that, in no case can this law be enacted, it must be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u111	The word is given to Bespalom Boris Jakovich, next to Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u112	"Our Ukraine", Kiev, Ukrainian People's Party. It seemed to my honourable colleagues that it would take two regulations for me to discuss such bills and one regulation. In fact, this is a vivid illustration of how we are loaded with small bills. But even so, Kabmin's intentions, I think, were the best, it's not the irreversibility of punishing consumers. And since they're implemented, it's a typical illustration of the formula that we've been using today, they wanted it as best they could, and it worked out as ever. I think Bogdan Kostinuk has just shown very convincingly in my view that this will not lead to anything else, how to strengthen in the practice of an administrative racket, when any government official in which there's not enough for any kind of expense, he can come in trade, collect these funds, settle his own issues. Perhaps something will fall on the very organs of government that are underfunded. So I think with this law, everything is finally clear. Consumer rights are declared, and attacks against entrepreneurs and the same consumers are being carried out. Now there are some such partial remarks. I wouldn't be going to a lower court right now. The courts in Ukraine are just starting to work on their own. Whatever the case, the trial is public and public, and he can be charged in a manner contrary to the administrative quarrel. Well, with regard to the philological rights we've been offered, I think that's all possible in the context of wide-ranging changes if there was a new law on consumer rights. And it's easy to spend, to draft a bill that's only positive for some kind of philosophical, stylistic amendment. Well, that's too much for me. And as for the changes to the advertising law. What law are we going to change? The Advertising Act is now being considered in a second reading. And there's a change, and it's regulated, and in parallel, it's going to change the advertising law by some kind of black-walking, side-scratch, I think. You don't have to do that. Well, of course, it's also not worth supporting, except for some, I think corrupt officials, bills. I don't think we can support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u113	Thank you. The word is given to Volodymyr Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u114	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština You can name dozens, hundreds of facts, when the legal rights of consumers are violated both in cities and in villages, and the relevant control authorities, too many of them have been developed in us lately, and in pursuits, and without them, take a stand, often defend only their interests, their employees, blaming consumers, especially retirement age. In the markets of the city and the area, and especially in the natural markets, food products are being made from the ground in the presence of stray dogs, cats, rats and other nutrients, which spread infectious diseases. Or we could take global issues of our day, such as the provision of heat, water, electricity. There is often a pernicious, often cynical attitude towards solving these problems. And the extreme, they say, is useless. So I want to make specific proposals: (1) Introduce the responsibility of the state governments to intervene on a continuous basis, to clarify relevant issues of consumer protection at all levels; (2) The law enforcement, control and enforcement bodies shall apply cruelly to violators of the consumer protection law to financial, economic, administrative sanctions and shall do so in a transparent manner, highlighting it in the media; (3) Disposal of natural markets everywhere, as has been done in Russia, Belarus and other countries of the SND; ( 4) To reinstate at the national level the authorities of the people who well justified themselves under the Soviet authorities. (5) In each area, create consumer protection services, raise their authority and responsibility for their business; ( 6) Strengthen the role of the judicial authorities in addressing consumer rights issues without being burdensome. And the last. To improve the work of the population in clarifying legislation on consumer protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u115	Thank you. The question has been completed. As for the vote, it will take place in accordance with the Rules. Now, let's move on to the Miscellaneous. It takes an hour. Please explain. The word is given to Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, the next Šurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u116	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, noble people of Ukraine! I am addressing you with a few specific facts about the inaction of the leadership of the Ukrainian prosecutor's office, which cannot protect the rights of Ukrainian citizens. First of all, it's Lviv. To date, the question of reinstatement of the illegal director of the Western State Inspectorate of the probationary control of Haiderov Yuri Grigorovovich has not been resolved. On March 31, the Attorney General of Piscoon honoured him with a criminal case based on the intentional failure of officials of the Ministry of Finance to order a reinstatement of the court. Article 382 of the Second Criminal Code provides for signs of crime. I'm talking to Mikola Janovich Azarov. For the fourth time, Mikolo Yanovich, I am addressing you! This criminal case is already calling your people, and you're headed by the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance. Execute a court decision that has become legally binding, and then no one will be criminally liable. I'm asking the D.A. to oversee this. I'm addressing the Attorney General of Ukraine, Mr. Piscoon, about the situation that has arisen and comes out of the public reception and is now reporting from the Party of Protectors of the country of Lviv, which directs the captain of the third ranking of the reserve of Lvichuk. He reports that the public of Kharkiv requires action against the collapse of the Ukrainian military and industrial complex through the collapse of the Kharkiv power plant of the National Space Agency. This enterprise falls into an incorrigible debt hole. As of this day, the debt is 800 grand, the real estate of the enterprise is illegally realized, the real estate is illegally realized, and the real estate is worth 1 million. $250,000. The D.A. of the Kharkiv Region has been suspended, specifically by Deputy Abakum, the district's deputy prosecutor, who has stopped the fair investigation of the tax police, who have violated a criminal case against officials who have embezzled state property by preparing the enterprise for further privatization. I appeal to the Attorney General's Office to verify the illegality of these actions and to take steps to stop these violations. I'm asking Saint Nicholas Piscoon to figure out what's going on in Kharkiv when we can destroy advanced space technology because of the inaction of his employees. Finally, everyone is now drawn to Yalta, dragged to Alucca, and there will be a lot of presidents there now. I bring to the attention of the Attorney General's Office, the Attorney General of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Cabinet of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, to the disgraceful cases that have now taken place in Aluupca, the trees have been completely destroyed, surrounded by approaches to the sea. I took the color photographs, I'll show them to you and then I'll put them on the D.A.'s office. You can't destroy the earth like that! The Lord will not forgive this! Why do we have the Cabinet of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and there's a whole, Prime Minister is Kunicin? Why do we have a prosecutor’s office to supervise? I ask them to intervene and correct this situation and report to us at the session. Please consider this address to be an official request and send it to the appropriate authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u117	Please follow the rules. The storm. Next Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u118	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I would like to draw your attention, my fellow officials, to the attention of the government, above all to a situation that seems unacceptable today, it is the city of Sambir of the Lviv district. The city was established in 1241, and 140 years later it was granted the right of Magdeburg. At the end of the 14th century, water and sanitation were first built in the center of Europe. The samba is located in the premountain of Carpathian Mountains, 35 km from the border with Poland, on the intersection of railways, automobiles, leading to Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, and Romania. The city is a prominent center of the Ukrainian Western Carpathians. Each year, thousands of visitors and tourists from Europe and Canada visit the samba. There are 10 schools, 3 vocational and technical schools, a technology of economics and information, a school of culture and a medical and pedagogical college, a faculty and a department of the Lviv National University, a Drogbyt National Teachers' University of Ternopil People's Academy. At the same time, the modern - day congregation is or is not the only city in Ukraine that has no purgatory value. There are some sewers that were built back in the days of the Austrian Empire in the 18th-19th century, through which today, without proper treatment, sewers fall into the Dubrovka River and the Glinyvka Canal, which flow through the city, transforming them into an open sewer. And it's all pouring into the Dniester River. Throughout postwar history, clean buildings were built twice, but for various reasons they were never able to build them. Keep going. The health-epidemiological and environmental situation remains too complex. Over the last 6 to 7 years, it has grown and has a tendency to increase further, acute intestinal infections and especially viral hepatitis. A particular danger is that the Guilty Channel is an open sewage collection of meadows, farmland, household, and industrial wasteland. The total number of organisms in the water at 37 and 22 degrees Fahrenheit is the same, indicating the absence of a process of water self - cleaning. Dubrovka River has a very high level of pollution. Index 2.3. Thus, the pollution rate of the Dniester River within the city of Dubiuka, the Mlinyvka Canal, is constantly too high and determines the absolute inadequacy of water objects to all types of water use. Bills were drafted in 2002. Today, this question is not resolved. I am addressing Prime Minister Janukovich. Your arrival in Lviv is accompanied by the hope of a change in the situation. We're asking for an allocation from Ukraine's reserve state fund to build the first round of collectors 2 million dollars. Involving the construction of clean-up facilities and sewage networks into the State Economic and Social Development Programme project since 2004 and taking into account the services of the Cabinet of Ministers from 6 December 2002 and 16 April 2003. Please count this statement as a request to the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u119	Vladimir Puzakov. Next stepan cloud. Stick to the time limit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u120	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština In recent times, the anti-national authorities have been talking more and more about some success in the economy, like, never before. And, really, it's never been like this before. We have every seven children undernourished, children diagnosed with "blood disease" increased 2.4 times, children with digestive diseases increased 1.4 times, homeless children in Ukraine 103 thousand. And no ruler will ever speak a word about our children. Although there was a lot of talk about children in our city on June 1st, there were lots of charity shows, children's creativity festivals, competitions, even announcements in local newspapers that would be free-of-charge children's attractions, but for a particular category of children. That's all June 1st. And from June 2, 3, until the following year, no one will even mention them. The government has to admit that everything in the country is directed against children over the past 12 years. Children’s sanatoriums, children’s hospitals, stations of young technicians, naturalists, and pioneer camps have privatized everything, which means they've been taken for a long time. And those left behind are in a hurry to sell, cheat, and why we have such a high percentage of child abuse. This was not thought of by the executives of the Bobinsky Paradise Administration and the head of the Osik Paradise. Why do they have children? Carman needs a refill. They went to the Ministry of Education and Science for alienation for the branch office of part of the facilities of children’s and young people’s creativity, motivated by the fact that the facilities were not used by the educational institution for a long time. Shame on the district’s rulers, who do not know what was going on there every day during the late hours of the city’s mass efforts, group activities, leisure hours, recreation, and so forth. Although the district attorney's office protested the sale of the premises, it's not an order. Today, all schools in the Bobrinsky region are commanded to set up rest camps for their children, but each child is obliged to buy board games, balls, chess, and so forth for the camp. If the child does not do so, he should not come to the camp. So I want to ask. How many of these woe leaders are going to heal children like this? By their actions, they drove the children into the night races. They are responsible for young girls selling their bodies on routes. They're responsible for the highest percentage of HlV-infected and drug addicts. Their actions run counter to the development of extra - school institutions. There was no such thing in Soviet Ukraine. And nobody could think of that. That's why I'm asking you to consider as a parliamentary request to the Minister of Education for the Science of Kremen Vasil Grigorovovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u121	Thank you. Stepan Cloud. I can't see. Mikola Melnik, please. Next Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u122	Mikola Melnik, Vinnyna, Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! In meetings with voters and in letters, I am asked what the MPs are doing when they block bills aimed at improving the life of a peasant. Whether they see a very low standard of living for rural people or find their place in the reform of the agricultural sector, they do not know about the low price of looting for grain, meat, milk, sugar, and other elements. Or are they unaware of the promises made by the President and the Prime Minister, who only promise to help in words and, in fact, no one has received a penny yet? I'm going to try to explain to you, voters, the position of the MPs, who are taking a negative view of any bill that is going to protect the peasant. In the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole, everyone knows that the reforms carried out by the Presidential Administration have not been a dream start to wealth, but rather a bitter payback for the naive belief in the decrees and decrees that have led to the suffering of millions of villagers. Presidential reform has given birth to several hundred truck investors, who suddenly have agilely contributed your investments to the Bank of Ukraine, including those set up to dominate rural poverty. The draft laws that are being drafted by members of the Socialists, Communists and agrarians who are hurting over the village are being blocked by these rich deputies, not by anyone else. They did nothing to save the peasants. And yesterday, Azarov Mikola Janović, Vice-Prime Minister, proposed his version of the execution of the State Penalty -- the removal of all the incentives given so far to the village. Only the resistance of the agrarians postponed the deadline for the total destruction of the peasant. Which is why this rich majority and parliament are blocking bills aimed at stabilizing the village by treating bankruptcy as a cure for the village's economy. In fact, the richer MPs, immersing in one’s interests and perceiving the smell of land that has bankrupted, will grasp the chasm of agriculture at no cost. Regrettably, your electorate and elected deputies, in fact, are intensifying their efforts in rural poverty, ruining the land from which young people enter the village in a mass way, which will never return.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u123	Thank you. The word is given to Shershun, the next Costinuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u124	Equality, faction of the Ukrainian agrarian party. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Because of adverse weather conditions this year, Ukraine’s agriculture has never been in a catastrophic state and continues to suffer enormous losses. These conditions, which require the work of farmers today, are not even kept in mind. Long - term drought caused by moderate crop damage left animals without food. The southern, central, and eastern regions of the country were particularly affected. Undoubtedly, the consequences of natural disasters, most of them, and agricultural enterprises cannot be overcome without State participation. In previous claims, the Ukrainian Agrarian Party has repeatedly drawn the attention of the Supreme Council and the government to the need to find additional reserves to support farmers in this situation. The May changes to the 2003 government budget included an additional 576 million. financial resources aimed at partially overcoming the agricultural crisis. But since the President's signing of this law, it's been a month, and no amount of it has been received yet. Only yesterday after a lengthy process of reconciliation between the budgetary and agrarian committees of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers issued a decree on the direction of use of these funds. But could it not have been done earlier so that the peasants would already feel any support from the State today? After all, the Ministry will now develop more methods, more order. The mechanisms for using these funds, and the peasants wait. The faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party requires that the government, first of all, immediately take all measures to implement the amendment law to the 2003 Ukrainian State Budget and its Order 923. Since it is about helping agriculture prepare for autumn crops, winter crops, every farm needs to do its best to have seeds, minerals, and plant protection products. We also draw the attention of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers to these circumstances, which continue to correct adverse weather conditions in a situation that is seriously deteriorating. Today, in many places late grain crops, on which any hope was based, have come into question. Sunflowers. This requires an additional allocation of at least 500 million dollars. the amount of the budget to provide direct financial assistance to agricultural enterprises. In this regard, the faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine asks the Supreme Council to support such an offer. We will strongly insist on additional measures by the Cabinet of Ministers to bring agriculture out of critical condition and proper financial support to the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u125	Bogdan Kostinuk, next weakling.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u126	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! The President's proposals regarding the so-called constitutional reform came to the Supreme Council again, and we are once again being asked to reshape our Constitution, and we are again being asked to amend several dozen articles of this Constitution. It's probably until Constitution Day, which we're about to celebrate. By the way, there are already two bills in the Supreme Council, because the President's Administration has apparently forgotten to repeal the previous bill. And we're asking whether he has the right to a clan-oligarchy regime, which has still consistently destroyed the growth of democracy, acquired by the declaration of Ukraine's state independence. Which is supported by only six percent of the population to announce the rate of democratic transformation. And we ask, what do the Presidential proposals have in common with real political reform? And we're going to try to answer what are the real objectives of presidential reform. And we say that the Presidential Reform is the preservation of the clan-oligarchy regime, that the Presidential Reform is a distraction from the people's acute socio-economic problems that lead them to the state of beggary. What's important, after all, is that Presidential reform is a fear of defeat in the presidential election of any of the dignitaries and officials and of the responsibility for the robbery of the Ukrainian people. Not today's time for reform. There are many other, more important problems in the state, particularly social ones. And we're talking to our esteemed radio audiences: we'll protect the Constitution from our guarantor! And we address each one of you individually: don't be afraid, don't be apathetic, don't be silent, we'll win anyway!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u127	Sergei Slabenko, next Michaela Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u128	Sergei Slabenko, 19th constituency, Volin. Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. I want to draw your attention to the problem, in my view, which is characteristic of all of Ukraine. Today, it is a matter of compensating companies for the cost of building and repairing social and municipal facilities. In particular, in my district of Volinsk, there are many such objects. These included the construction and repair of schools, preschool facilities, gasification facilities and utilities, which were carried out between 1993 and 2002 and were not compensated for the costs incurred so far. Over the course of the year, I addressed the various authorities of the government more than ten times, following answers from the ministries and ending with the Deputy Prime Minister's signatures, and finally received the last reply from the Ukrainian Prime Minister's Administration, which reported that on 21 February 2003, the President of Ukraine, on the basis of the All-Ukrainian Council on Strategy and Development of the Agrarian Sector, had entrusted the Cabinet of Ministers with the provision of such compensation. So this problem has existed for more than 10 years. And the relationship between the organizations that did this work and the local authorities has grown very much. On the other hand, social and utility facilities are in dire straits, for local budgets do not provide for the construction and repair of money, but they are expected to benefit from the lost trust to wait on no one. In recent years, there has been virtually no such compensation in the area or in the area, in fact, there is no such amount of money, and they are unable to solve it on their own. This has led to increased social tension, dissatisfaction with local authorities, and mistrust in their capabilities. I believe that in the face of many of the acute problems encountered by rural settlements, the solution to this problem is the cost of building and repairing social and utility objects should be a priority. Therefore, given that the 2004 budget is under review, I would like to make sure that these expenditures are reimbursed in the 2004 budget. Please consider this part of the speech as a parliamentary request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine with a request to finally solve the problem. And so am I. I ask that when national MPs speak, they be given specific answers. So, for example, I raised the question of checker number 10 on L.'s gassing deadlines when this question is solved with the number of allocated funds, or not with the specification. No specific answer was received. We believe that this is, I think, a violation of the laws of law, and I insist that my speech be regarded again as a parliamentary request for specific answers from officials. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u129	Thank you. The word is given to Mikhail Vasilovich Melniczuk. Next up, Basil Red.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u130	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished radio listeners! Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of Socialist Ukraine, Cherniewec region. I am speaking from this high rostrum to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovovich, the man to whom I trust, and I know that this is a man of words and deeds. Let me give you a few examples that I ask you to consider as a request and to carry out appropriate tests of these examples. Cherkas region, Smiley district, village of Plaski. The people were stolen by the local authority of the head and head of the district government and by the authorities of 320 hectares [120 ha] of land that had been transferred from the ore to the earth. The Ivano-Frankiv region of the Dolin region of Yavorov village was formerly a rural head of the assassination of the district government and the district council took 430 hectares to the peasants, transferred to VAT "Naftogaz", "Dolinnaftogaz" 430 hectares of land to be used "Dolinanaphtogas" on lease terms, and the money was to reach the rural community. The facts are, the court has considered, no measures have been taken so far, and no action has been taken. The district of Guliapil district is a suburban farm called Colossus 2000. In 1999 the land was torn apart according to the President’s decree. The guile regime accepts orders and adds 100 applicants to the list of land certificates that according to the President’s decree do not have the right to land. So they broke the law. The guile court confirms the order of the regime and thus takes 380 acres [380 ha] from the people of the land, and repeats their despair. It's a gross violation. Ivan Grigorovich, I'm asking you to appoint a committee to deal with these facts. Because Danielenko is already a member of the MP’s team at all, he may not respond to requests from a large number of authorities. I address the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Azarov. I got your answer that the Attorney General's Office will investigate the abuse of the head of the Montenegrin district administration, Theophil Bauer, for the use of budget funds for the repair of his office, 500,000, and for the purchase of his apartment replacements, 900,000. I expect an answer from the Attorney General's Office when Theophile Bauer is responsible for his abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u131	Basil Red. Next Alexander Malinowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u132	Dear friends! 352 years ago, the village of Plasheva and the island of Berestec took place in the largest number of battles in the history of the Middle Ages. In the history of Europe between the Ukrainian army led by Bogdan Hmelnick and Polish invaders led by Jan Kazimir. Since the late 20s of last century, on the ninth Friday after the Passover, Ukrainian youths have traditionally gathered at the Cossacks ’ graves under Berestec, Ukrainian priests have sent God’s service, and the camps have stood for three days. Polish, then German, Bolshevik invaders banned the congregation of patriotic youths in holy places, but with the beginning of the national revival of the 1990s, this tradition was reborn. And so, on behalf of the organizers, I would like to invite all of you, all of Ukraine’s patriots, to go to the feast and honor the memory of the fighters for the will and independence of Ukraine. We invited the leader of the "Our Ukraine" Block Victor Yushchenka, the national deputies, all those who are in the hall listening to the broadcast, all the Ukrainian patriots to come to this place. In general, the Cossacks of the army of Bogdan Hmelnick later in the Iron Hunt, and later the Ukrainian rebel army, the Cossacks of UPA, at the cost of their efforts, their blood, their sacrifices. Of course, they contributed and made a major contribution to Ukraine’s restoration 12 years ago. However, Ukraine’s history in higher education institutions in secondary, special, and just secondary schools is not at the right level nor does it raise patriotism, such as that raised in neighboring Russia. To study the history of Ukraine in humanitarian colleges -- non-professive -- it takes only 108 hours, one semester. And in technical colleges. for 36 hours. For comparison. Russia is studying the History of Fatherhood in all the faculties and studying for a year. And this object is among the other disciplines in the first place. And in Ukraine, as we know, instead of deepening the study of Ukraine's history, the Ministry of Education and Science is now developing a concept that plans to study the course simply of history, in which "Ukrainian History" will become an integral part of the general history of foreign countries. So the entire full course of history in Ukraine will not be given to students and students. Even in the Soviet Union, the history of Ukraine was studied separately in secondary schools. We, the Ukrainian deputies, are interested in the official answer to what position in this matter the Institute for the History of the National Academy of Sciences and the Ministry of Education and Science is actually planning to raise in our country, not the real patriots of Ukraine. So I suggest we make an appropriate parliamentary request, but I propose to listen to the leadership of the Ministry of Education and Science on the course of studying the history of Ukraine in all the universities of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u133	Malinovsky Alexei Petrovich Next Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u134	Alexei Malinowski, Socialist faction, Cherkaschina Dear radio listeners! I would like to raise a problem that concerns not only agrarian Cherkashchina but also many other regions. In Cherkaščina, for the first time in almost 5 years, you'll have to buy food grain outside the region. A few digits. Only about 150,000 tons are needed for farmers. This is almost three quarters of the quantity needed to guarantee the food security of the land. Problems with the seeds of the winter crops under the 2004 crop are also expected. In the area, 45,000 acres [240,000 ha] of sown autumn remained to be collected. Experts have expressed fear that seeds will be collected twice as much. The average yield of grains can be about 10 centrifuges per hectare. In addition, the drought of a large amount of sowing will require not combining, which means additional costs about a few times. The government is focused on weather conditions. Yes, they do, but problems need to be looked deeper. First, from last year's autumn solstice in the area, almost 80,000 hectares of the winter wedge remained intact. The cold and the heat only shed light on the pain that the peasants still have. Second, we've gone into the past of concepts such as optimal sowing times, moisture-saving technologies, which is why the entire agricultural cycle is locked into a deadlock: anything we sow can and will gather anything. Also, meteorologists warned of a hot summer. If the manufacturer were in the country technically and materially, there wouldn't be such a disaster. I'm sure almost none of the lower efficient hosts will even call out tens of more than 100 recommended by the country's science options for the preparation of soil and the selection of appropriate mechanisms. [[in quotes]] The only goal of today's owners is to get out of the village and out of the country all that's possible is a peasant, to get rich and not think about the future, and then throw it all away. Such examples are in the area of tens and hundreds. Hundreds of farms in Teravsky, Maesterszynski, Katerinopilski, Lysický, and the Cityic region are devastated. Among the peasants, enmity was sown beyond the borders, property, and land certificates. What, the authorities did not know about these problems? I knew it perfectly well. Even though a session of local councils discussed the situation in the countryside? None. On the contrary, the authorities constantly, as a spell, call people out of all media. It's okay, there's an effective host in the village and everything's gonna be okay, the food's gonna stay. In the past few days, however, food rations have broken out in Chercas. The flour, the grains, the pasta, the other things, the prices went up. What the D.A.'s doing, he's doing. The 16 criminal cases have been solved in the village, and in three months no issue has been resolved. But during this time, the district attorney’s office is being built at the expense of businessmen. I'm talking to Mr. Piscoon. Let him figure out who he's talking to. As far as it's possible, the premises are being built by the procurator's businessmen. And yesterday it was as if I were happy. The president's on TV. I think everything's going well. No, it's not. The problems of political reform are rising. Mr. President! I'm addressing you personally, political reform needs to start with yourself, please contact the people, retire, then everything will be fine. It'll be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u135	I can't see Yavorowski, I can't see him. Vadim Mikolaiovich Gurov, please. Next Singer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u136	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished fellow MPs, Vadim Gurov, Krivbas, electoral station 32. I'd like to draw your attention to the question that we've already raised with you, but it's not solved at this time. According to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 28.03.2000, number 402 on the amendment and appendix number 1 and the procedure for setting congregation standards for environmental pollution and for bringing this congregation together, environmental pollution standards have increased by 50 percent, taking into account inflation in 1999. In turn, when working on proposals to raise the standards of the congregation, the Minprompolitics and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Industrial Policy proposed a solution to the problem of determining the extent of the marginal level of the environmental assembly for the percentages set each year by the adjustment coefficient that would be equal to the inflation rate of the previous year. The rate of increase in the congregation’s standards is corresponding to the inflation index each year, is confirmed by the Minecore resource letter, but table 1.9 of the congregation’s standards for waste management is, in my opinion, a editorial error in the setting of the standard. Low-security, including non-toxic mining waste -- instead of 0.3 bracelets per tonne, only 0.3 bracelets per tonne remain. I suppose the error was due to the fact that in preparing the draft decree of 28.03 - 402 ha, changes in the standard of the congregation were made directly to the Cabinet of Ministers. In fact, as a result of this action, a small mistake, I understand, the mining industry congregation grew by 1,500 percent. Think about that number! As a result of the increase in payments to mining companies alone, the Krivbassa Congregation has a total of 266 million people. the bracelet and grew to 285. In the past, there were 19 million. This level of congregations represents 10 percent of the value of the produced iron ore concentrate. And if you take a combination like the mining and metallurgical cryogenic, it's increased by 37 million. Forced to ask the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to re-delegate the Minecores of change to the decision. Please consider my statement to be a request to the Prime Minister and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u137	The word is Singeruk. Next Sokirko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u138	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs! Vladimir Spiwiachuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin We are today, and more specifically, last night we were all very excited by the President's wonderful appeal to the people of Ukraine, where he once again declared political reform, his initiative, forgetting that he should be the guarantor of the Constitution and that under his patronage the laws in force in Ukraine should be implemented. We have repeatedly talked about the need to change the system of power and change it in the direction that Parliament also takes its place in the legislative system, and that the executive power should perform its functions, and that the judiciary should not violate existing legislation. Sadly, though, that is not the case in Ukraine today. Regrettably, in Ukraine today, laws are being broken again under high patronage, human rights are being violated, their legitimate interests violated. I'll just give you one example. I have recently been contacted by advocates of Mikola Ivanovich Kolos and Vadim Sidorovic Popovic, who have declared violations of the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation on the interests of Ukrainian citizen Šishkovski. That's the point. Lawyers write: "We are addressing you for the first time, although the very criminal case in which he is going through, forgive us, for the fate of a Ukrainian citizen, a resident of Chernivci Sishkovsky Ruslan Leonidovich, we are addressing you for the first time, although the criminal case on which he is going through the accused was violated on August 18, 2002. We were moved to point out that we are confident that this person is not involved in the murder of a citizen of the Republic of Poland, Leszek Bendesh. But despite the fact that in the criminal case number 1.106 in the prosecution's office number 8820020069, there is sufficient evidence in the criminal case of his innocence and law enforcement officials not only tortured our defendant for the purpose of confessing his guilt, but also convinced that he could not be a participant in the murder of 14.08.2002, they changed the date of Bendesh's death to 13.08.2002 when Shiskovski was still in. In this way they created real conditions for the illegal admission of him to be guilty of a particularly serious crime. This is about the employees of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Belgrade-Dnistrovsk Odessa District. On the basis of what I have said, I appeal to the Qualificational Commission of the judges of the Odessa local courts of the Odessa region for the conduct of the examination of the facts and for the violation of the disciplinary conduct of Judge Bilgorod-Dnistrovska Ostroi and the heads of this court of Smaglia. The other one. Considering that the criminal case of Shiskovski's indictment has a particular complexity and importance, since a citizen of another state has been killed, please refer the named criminal case number 1-160 from the Belgrade-Dnistrov City Court to the Court of Appeal of the Odessa Region. And the third. I appeal to the Attorney General of Ukraine to investigate and hold responsible for the abuse of office and for falsification and other illegal activities of the employees of the Belgrade-Dniestrov Interstate Prosecutor's Office of Borsulak, Gorszczak, Odobaszczen (?) and others involved in this matter. Please consider my statement to be an official parliamentary address to the officials in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, we can't go over the rules either. The word is Sokirko. He's next. It doesn't, does it? Workman, please. The next one is Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, I join my colleague Vasile Redonia in inviting me to celebrate the memory of Ukrainian Cossacks under Beresteczka, which will take place from July 27 to 28, this year. Please all come. July 29th. Dear colleagues, the President is bringing in a new supply. I read carefully what the President is proposing, and I realized that the President's wish is to abstain in one way or another. Or we need to come up with a mechanism to keep his protagonist in power, that's the whole point of the President's proposal. Please tell me, which one of you thinks that most of you will now appoint a Prime Minister? Oh, my God. It is proposed that the President will put the Prime Minister on the proposal. But the president may not. And then, after a certain term, it launches the Supreme Council. It is suggested that the Supreme Council be dispersed when it did not accept the budget. But keep in mind, the President is signing the budget. If the President didn't sign the budget, then he's launching the Supreme Council. The point is to blackmail MPs by suggesting that everyone change in 2004. Interesting, but the president says he's going to the money economy, which is to be picked in one year. And it creates a mechanism where you can run the Supreme Council every year and run elections every time. Actually, he's proposing in 2004. So it's not about the money, it's about the leather interest. It's because our citizens are used to the public discussion, and I think the President's proposals also deserve a public discussion, that I, as Ukraine's national deputy, am making a proposal and organizing an all-U.S. intrigue competition. I ask your suggestions, your schemes, how can we leave our President on a second date, or how to choose him as president, send him to me personally. I will forward all proposals to the President's Administration, and I guarantee that the winner of this competition will be accepted within 15 minutes by the President of Ukraine, because that is the kind of people that the President needs. As for the five - year terms, I think it will set up a court after the investigation, and the President will then be in the Lukyan detention facility. God help me!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u141	The word is given to Belarus, the next to the Seed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u142	Dear Ukrainian citizens, yesterday the President's speech and today's presidential document, the bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine say that Ukraine is at risk of an anti-constitutional coup. And every citizen needs to know about this threat. This is nothing more than usurpation of power, violation of constitutional requirements for democratic change of power, including the power of the President. And it can't help but cause concern in the walls of the Supreme Council. The President has promised to publish the book "Ukraine Not Russia" to all the people. I don't know what this great writer is going to write there, but I do know one thing that Ukraine wants to turn into Asia and impose a new Kuchma-Bashi Turkmenistan in the form of Kuchma-Bashi on Ukraine. And even more will weaken and derail Ukraine, undermine its international authority, citizens' rights, human rights. So once again, every citizen should say, "Ukraine is not Asia," and any attempt to undermine the Constitution and impose a permanent regime on us can end tragically not only for Ukraine, but for the initiators of this disgraceful farce. Even the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has some satrap judges who have started singing about it. I think Kuchma has a right to choose the third term of the presidency. What rights might this be? He has absolutely no constitutional right to do that. Nor do political rights afford such an opportunity, and strict morals advocate against any attempt to continue this disgraceful authority. And Kuchma has a personal responsibility for total poverty, for that. That 80 percent of the citizens live in poverty, and 20 clan families in the President's neighborhood have seized 80 percent of the national capital. School's ruined. Science is ruined. The U.S. Army is down, defense is down. There is no protection of national interests. Today, this whole Sabbath has to be stopped and it's not about continuing Kuchma for 3 or 5 years, with or without elections, to turn the government system into a non-parliamentary state. This could be just one thing — the timely, voluntary or involuntary release of the President and the election of the new President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u143	Thank you. The word is given to Sithina. As co-chair of the permanent commission, I want to say that no decision will be taken regarding changes to the Constitution without this room. And that's what we need to understand. That is how it will be, whether it will be so. It will be as the Supreme Council will decide. That's how it's going to be. Please. The next Taras Cranville. If there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u144	Mikhail Sithina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party, election district No.74, Zacarpathia. Dear Hennaday Andriyovich! Dear National Deputies! I'm talking to you about construction, and more true about the lack of tele- and radio-species space in the area of Carpathian. Without looking at the letters of reply from the Cabinet of Ministers at number 514749-4 of 23. 11 and number 514771-4 of 25. 11 questions remained unanswered. And the Cabinet of Ministers decree of 40 of 16.01 2003 on the approval of the Development Programme and the refitting of ERT transmission equipment on the basis of modern technical equipment until 2012 completely overshadowed my expectations. Today, in this mountainous region of Ukraine, information security has become extremely difficult for the whole nation to integrate. Only 70 percent of the population is covered by national television programs UT-1 and UT-2. And in many locations, there is not even a wire broadcast. Dear National Deputies, in fact, in the centre of Europe in the 21st-century information field, there are settlements where there is a maximum of one television program or one missing, one radio conversation or one telephone per village, or none. There is no Internet or language. Ukraine's virtually frequent resources in border areas have been lost forever, neighbouring countries such as Romania, Hungary, Slovakia, Poland have registered more than 200 radio frequencies in the last year, and we have two radio frequencies. The state - owned enterprise Cross-Viewing, the Television and Radio Broadcasting Board does not make proactive estimates of the frequency, do not make biased comparisons with neighbouring countries. They expect a frequency request from local television companies or, at best, from a network channel. And then the money has to pay TRC in advance, and if it gets the frequency, that's the question. The technical possibility will not be allowed, or someone will lose. Realistically, in the mountainous villages today, they do not look or listen, for nothing. And in the valley, they look and listen to foreign television and radio channels, because big choices and quality are high. Therefore, according to the Ukrainian Act on the Status of Mountain Populations, article 3, paragraph 1, "Proguarantees of the State" for the allocation of budgetary resources for the development and strengthening of the material and technical base, the television and radio broadcasting system, please allocate $25 million from the state budget. to build a modern-day TV network in Zakarpat using new technologies based on the use of satellite information transmission systems and few powerful ground broadcasters. Please consider my statement as a parliamentary request to Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovich of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u145	Thank you. Taras Cranwell, no. Stepan Bulba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u146	A faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, deputies in the faction of the socialist party of Ukraine are coming up with many letters of complaint about the work of judges of various institutions. As you analyze them, you will inadvertently reflect on what is being done by our courts when making decisions. For example, I was approached by a group of pensioners from Poltavska, former civil aviation pilots. During the thousands and thousands of hours spent driving airplanes, the state of its time made them happy with their pensions at the minimum. On November 17, 1999, the Supreme Council abolished this injustice, and the pilots began to receive increased pensions. But not for long. The district authorities of the Pension Fund received a letter from the then Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Helen Hotch. In this masterpiece of the official Epistolic genre, Hotch expressed the view that aviation pensions should be paid less. The managers of the Pension Fund’s district administration readily accepted the principal’s opinion and reduced the statutory pensions, and they dropped their pensions without a basis. This is because the letters are not legal acts, they cannot stop the functioning of the laws. Local courts throughout Ukraine, where the airlines applied for applications, have made hundreds of decisions in favour of pensioners. The complaints of the county boards of the Pension Fund have been dismissed by appeals courts, I repeat, hundreds of airmen across Ukraine have been reinstated to pay their previously assigned pensions and the debt has been repaid, including 22nd in Poltavščina. The approvals for the airmen were accepted by both the District Courts of Appeal and the Supreme Court of Ukraine. All of a sudden, from February 2003, the same courts, including the Supreme Court, as the command began to adopt the exact opposite. How can that be? After all, the legal field has remained unchanged. Why did the law protect one another and not the other? This is true when courts make decisions, not on the basis of laws, but on the basis of similar letters with the wishes of high officials. I appeal to the Supreme Court of Ukraine, to his head the benevolence of Mahlarenko, demanding the protection of pensioners, former personnel of the aviation pilots, of the civil aviation contingent, against the seductive officials of the Pension Fund. Please consider my statement an official parliamentary request. And to the end. Two days ago, Helen Hotacz was appointed head of the Social Insurance Fund for temporary loss of employment and expenses related to birth and burial. It is evident that the authorities in this office need such ones, with the permission to say, as the defenders of the people. But it won't take long.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u147	Yes, Olga Hinzburg. None. Ice cream? Proscurat? None. Yes, Anatoly Orzhachowski, please. And we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u148	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear National Deputies! While in the areas that we represent in Parliament, particularly in Hersonian, I have repeatedly had to be interested in and then apprehensive about the state of culture in the countryside, particularly in libraries. It seems to me that the year of culture in Ukraine, announced by the President for 2003, is nothing more than a first-class joke. The real situation is evidence of a decline in spirituality at the level of villages and villages, not at its confirmation. The parliamentary proposals for improving the material and financial situation of the sphere, the working conditions of cultural workers, expressed during parliamentary hearings, remain on paper. In Soviet times, some have ironically scolded the authorities that culture is financed by a residual principle. What the average citizen should say about the attention of the culture to today’s political elite. Only one thing is irresponsibility and complete destruction. Unfortunately, in the village, in the district center: the library, the palace of culture, the school -- there are only links to education and spirituality. However, we see a librarian standing before a reader helplessly and unable to meet the most elementary user requests. Because in years of independence, no amount of money was allocated to the purchase of books from the state budget, and libraries are gradually converted into such books. As it turns out, after a terrible destructive war with fascism, books were filled, new institutions opened up, and the authorities today abandoned mass libraries. Perhaps Ukraine does not need educated people in the future. There is a fine decision by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers No. 900 from July 1, 2002 to provide a library fund replenishment programme by 2005. However, it is not being implemented in part of the funding. Today, the central district library of the village, the children's library receive several copies of rural and rural, if no sponsors are found, they get one or two newspaper names, or nothing. No telephone calls, no heating, no books are broken, no workers are sick, no librarians have been working in half since 1997 and no material benefits are available, and they are also accustomed to cutting down units. There are no funds for the purchase of reading forms, repairs of premises, purchases of equipment, and so forth. Libraries and their families are beyond poverty because they are unable to feed their families, to work with inspiration. Under conditions of suspension, the provision of anticipated benefits has to be voluntarily turned off in the homes of the inflammation. That's why people from the culture of the areas where they had to go: The great Lepeticha, Kalanczak, Grand Alexander, Vorontsovka and others demand that the authorities solve the problems raised. Instead of relying on people’s unlimited patience, local reserves, we should seek financial support for areas to halt the destruction of cultural institutions during so - called agrarian pay-raise conversions. And at the very end of me, perhaps it's time for intelligence to think about who to bring to power in the future and who to vote for. Please consider my speech to be an MP to the Minister of Culture of Bogucky with the request to solve the problems raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u149	Please, Vladimir Lechchenko. From 1 minute. Volodymyr Lechchenka's microphone, out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u150	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Yesterday, June 19, 10 years after the revival of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Initially, in 1991 there was a great betrayal of a bunch of party worlds. The villains seized power and national wealth. They're still in control of the ball in Ukrainian society. Then there was Makiyivka, and finally there was Donetsk. On June 19, 1993, the Communist Party of Ukraine was restored. Now it's a powerful political force that consistently fights for the interests of the workers. I warmly welcome all the Communists, all the people working with this glorious decade. Victory will follow us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u151	The word is given to Victor Valentinovich Borschevski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u152	Victor Borstevsky, Dnepropetrovska oblast, Communist Party of Ukraine. I would like to draw the attention of distinguished colleagues and voters to the critical situation in some enterprises in the Dnepropetrov region. First of all, it was the Petrovsky Plant, where, according to the Government Commission, Privatbank, in fact, smothered the plant, today the labour force is in the process of a labour dispute. But despite requests from the Cabinet of Ministers, the Cabinet of Ministers today favours a solution to this problem. Second. Southern radio station, yellow water. Practically one of the most science-intensive productions, but today, despite many presidential decrees, the Cabinet of Ministers is not addressing this problem. I would like to make an official statement to the Prime Minister so that the Government will immediately find an opportunity to address the problems of these very important enterprises in our Dnepropetrov region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u153	Grigory Ivanovich Bondarenko, please, Eurovibiris.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u154	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished colleagues. At the turn of the election in my Lord's House, number 92, I was approached by distinguished people, disabled by the Great Homeland War. Their request was to bring to the attention of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Disability and Retired Persons the issue of the implementation of the Ukrainian War Veterans Act, guaranteeing their social protection. Regrettably, the national subsistence minimum does not meet the basic living standards of this category. That is, the appropriate funding provided for in the State budget for the implementation of Article 13 of the Act does not have far-reaching implementation. This is mainly due to a lack of funds. At the time of the adoption of the invalids, the war was indignant, for there should be money for these purposes in the state. The government, along with the relevant committees of the Supreme Council, did not do everything to ensure that the population was fully covered. And on this point, I think we should all go back to the 2004 budget. I'm going to go to the second, equally important question, it's just paradoxical, issued documents, the testimony of the warlords to the disabled doesn't very much confirm that they're involved in the fighting. The milestones of history separate us from the difficult events of 1941-1945, and the number of people with disabilities of war in certain regions is growing in too much regret, including this paradox in my constituency. With each passing year, more and more of them are becoming more and more. The warlords were likened to those who did not survive the horrors of the Great Homeland War, and the benefits provided by the laws for them are used. No less painful problems for this population category are the problem of targeted assistance. What is it like for people with disabilities in war, such as the owner of a car? The fact is, for a year he gets a fuel compensation of more than 80 dollars. That'll take a little more than 50 liters of gas. Not much, you could say, nothing at all. The maintenance of the car is completely forgotten by socialists, and it will cost a large sum of money, about 250 dollars, or a thousand dollars. Where are they going to take them? In the absence of time, I will not list other paradoxical, so called this aid and the implementation of this law for this category of population. Dear Hennady Andriyovich! I would also like to consider my statement as a question of parliament, and the relevant committees, together with the government, to give an appropriate mandate to improve legislation and to implement it from the points raised. The 2004 budget must take into account the corresponding expenditure on social security for war veterans and disabled persons. In their time, they were protecting our native Fatherland and our daughter Ukraine, and now who, like you and I, should help them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-20-m0.u155	Dear colleagues! The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. The plenary session begins at 10 a.m. on July 1. Thank you all.
