ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u1	Good morning to the national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Please be prepared for registration by your distinguished colleagues. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:31]] Registered -431 There were 431 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies, Antonyak Anatoly Mihajlovich and Shevchenka Alejandro Alexandrovitch. Let us welcome them and wish them health and every success. Please, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u2	Lucenko, a socialist faction of Parliament. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a question. Yesterday there was a meeting of the Committee on Budgets, which had already adopted the budget in second reading. I don't understand. We're being deprived of our right to reform, to work. Well, where it was issued in Parliament, two days after it was introduced, it was already printed. I ask you to entrust our legitimate constitutional parliamentary right to amend this year so that there will be no printing of a mindless budget under the pressure of Mr. Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u3	I ask Adam Ivanovich to examine the situation. I don't think the committee can accept the budget. He was looking at this issue there yesterday, apparently. Well, I'll ask Adam Ivanovich to take care of it, he said. Please, Jaroslav Suhi. No, Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For two days now, there are no two draft regulations -- Decree 40P-3, 4207-1P. The relevant bills are with the deputies. And two draft decrees on the inadmissibility of the two laws of Yashchenk, Pinzenic, have not yet been issued. I ask you to give instructions to multiply and distribute to the deputies two draft regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, yes, indeed, two decrees have passed on the inadmissibility of a draft law amending the Minimum Wages Act. But according to the regulations, I sent these draft rulings to the committee. He will consider these questions, and in the complex he will take to the session room. Because there is no subject yet. We need to look at it and hand it over. And what I'm saying is that we've turned to the Cabinet, that according to the Budget Code, the Minimum Wages Act is the prerogative of the Cabinet of Ministers. Let's give it up, no questions. Dear colleagues, according to Rule 2.5. 2, Rule 5.2.2 on Friday, we have 30 minutes to announce requests, statements, messages, and proposals made by national deputies. I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for statements, messages and suggestions. And I will, while there are no objections, announce the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Leukka Lukyanenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding compliance by officials of the state authorities with the requirements of effective legislation regarding the National Hortica Reserve. Michael Pavlovsky and Julia Timoshenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the repayment of the arrears of payments provided for in the Law on State aid to families with children living in the Borsztev region of Ternopil. Maria Markusz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Bank of Ukraine, on the return to the community of the Sveto-Uspen Orthodox Church of the Tachiv region of Zakarpat region, which were on the accounts of the stockholder commercial agro-industry bank "Ukraine". Istwan Haydosh to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for payment of the added value tax on the transfer of land. Alexander Kemenyash to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the shore-building work on the Tis River in the village of Drotinci in the district of Zacarpathia. Mikoli Tomenka is the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of legality, and the technical and economic justification for the construction of the deep-sea navigational river Danube Black Sea on the Ukrainian part of Delta. Julius Timoshenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of formal responses to parliamentary requests. Maria Marcus to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the return of a private enterprise. The village of Bustino Tachiv district of Zakarpatsk, the area of the funds that were paid as a tax by the owners of the means of transport through the Stock Exchange commercial agro-industry bank "Ukraine". Vladimir Yavorowski - to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the baseless delay in the transfer of the factory "Calculator" of the city of Svetlovodska in the subordination of the Ministry of Industrial Policy, which leads to the theft of property and the financial and economic collapse of the enterprise. Jurya Solomatina, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of the daughter company "The Crushing" after years of failure to pay the congregation for geological exploration. Anatolia Átnajka - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the closure of the kindergarten in the area of Inakieva Donetsk. Gregory Bondarenko is the prime minister of Ukraine for monopolistic prices and other problems in urban agricultural markets. Eugene Kirilczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory response of the Ukrainian Cabinet to parliamentary requests and delaying the resolution of the protection of the rights of Ukrainian citizens affected by radiation pollution as a result of nuclear tests at the Semipalatinsk site. Bogdan Kostinuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the increase in the price of bread and responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for cheating on the grain market. Vladimir Zubanova - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for bringing the guilty to justice in the annual detention of the heating season in the city of Zugriz Donetsky. Eugene Hoornik to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the payment of debt for solid fuel subsidies to the Boro population. in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Anatolia Kozlovski - to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs on the verification of the legality of the implementation of the national reserve grain by officials of the Open Shareholders Association “The New Alexian Combine of Agricultural Products”, the private enterprise “Nadra” and the limited liability society “Alphatreiding”. Vasil Onopenk - to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the violation by the head of the housing operation organization No. 803 in Kiev of Ukraine's current legislation. Mikoli Tomenka is with the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of strengthening prosecutorial supervision and publishing verification materials on the mass production of forests in Ukraine. Vladimir Puzakov - to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of the reasons for the suspension of the construction of the youth housing complex in Kirovograd. Vasil Onopenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation by the head of the government of the closed stock company "Women" of Ukraine's laws on the privatization of state property and on economic societies. Vladimir Yavorowski - to the Attorney General of Ukraine for his dissatisfaction with the reply of the Prosecutor's Office of the Kyrovograd Region to a parliamentary appeal regarding the abuse of office, the management of the professionally-opened company "Clean Metals" of the city of Svetłovodsk and the mundane treatment of their duties as individual employees of the procurator's office of the Kirovograd region. Oleg Bezpalog to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of supporting the prosecution of illegal charges brought against Boris Feldman, ex-president of the Slovenian Bank. Jury Boyka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Chief State Sanitary Doctor of Ukraine, the first deputy head of the State Department of Fire Safety of the Ministry of Emergency Situations and People's Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster on the verification of the legality of the location and operation of the Phoenix cafe in Kiev. Georgia Manchulenka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine is once again questioned about the violation of the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine by the officials of the Prosecutor's Office and the court of the Czernovetsk region. Dmitry Rudkowski to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for Procrastination. Eugene Hoornik to the Minister of Agrarian Policy of Ukraine regarding the allocation of additional funds to support farmers in the region of Borocan for the sale of young cattle. Viktor Rozwadowski to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine for the provision of the family of disabled people in the first group of the Žitomir Region by “Tavria”. Vladimir Puzakov to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine on the critical situation that arose in the pensioners' collective of the city of Alexandria of Kirovograd district as a result of the lack of supply of coal. People's Deputies Groups: Baloga, Ivancho, Migovic to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine regarding the financing of the reconstruction of the station and station in Mukatcha Zakarpatsk district. Vladimir Petrenko to the head of the Coordinating Committee on Combating Corruption and Organized Crime with the President of Ukraine regarding the gravity of the authorities in the handling of complaints by Suma residents about the establishment of a disability group as a result of industrial injury. Jury Karmazin to the head of the Coordinating Committee on Combating Corruption and Organised Crime under the President of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Ukraine on the verification of corruption, abuse of office, overstatement of official authority, official falsification, theft of property on a particularly large scale, the illegal use of natural resources by the Director of the Open Association of the "Davids" of the Emptymittov region of the Lviv region and the harassment of him by individual employees of the Procurator of the Desert. Julius Timoshenko to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of the Viennese Regional Administration, Rector of the Vinicki State Agrarian University, on the situation surrounding the renewal of the Winnitz bus service in the city. Georgia Manchulenka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Coordinating Committee to Combat Corruption and Organized Crime at the President of Ukraine for the illegal sale of 25 hectares of land on the territory of the Borispol International Airport. Jury Karmazin to the Head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization, the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Fund of State Property of Ukraine, on the verification of the legality of the actions of officials of the Fund of State Property of Ukraine, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, while excluding from the programme the privatization of the entire property complex of the State Enterprise "Energoautomatics", its reorganization by joining the State Enterprise "Energougil" and violating the rights of members of the labour community. Victor Rozwadowski to the Head of the State Liaison and Information Committee of Ukraine for the extension of telephone networks and the features of the automatic telephone station of the village of Tenykovka of the Red Army Region, in the area of Žitomir. Jury Karmazin to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges, the Head of the High Council of Justice, the Head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, on the release from office of the Head of the Drogobit City Court and the duties of Judge Wojciekhowski for violating the oath of a judge. Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine for the use of emergency measures in connection with the crisis of VAT "Lisican Soda" and the localization of the negative socio-political situation. Andrija Poliita and Anishuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine Vasiliev on the investigation of the death of a member of LXM Berdügin. Anatolya Orjaholwiski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the disproportionate hydrological condition of the populated areas of the Calanchia farmlands of the Hersonian region. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine for the connection of the newly built gas pipeline in the village of Kobitska Bobrovicki district of Montenegro to the gas supply networks. Andrea Poliita and Anishuk to the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the death of a member of LXM Berdügin. Eugene Kirilczuk to U.S. Attorney General Vasiliev on the illegal actions of law enforcement officials in the city of Lucca and the procedural fibula in the case of citizen Láshenko. Eugene Kirilchuk to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine of the Bilocona on lorry for goods and food rations to former officials of the internal affairs agencies. Anatolia Matvienka, Gregory of Omelchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the implementation of parliamentary law. The essence of the MP's inquiry. On the basis of article 76, part 4, paragraph 33, of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, within the limits of my mandate to exercise parliamentary control over compliance with the requirements of legislation, to provide information on the reasons for the criminal offence concerning the activities of the State Quarantine Service and the foreign company Pest control in the market. agricultural production. Yes, a similar request from Anatolia Matvienka and Gregory Omelchenka to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine Kostusev. Parliamentary request by Gregory Omelchenka and Anatolia Matvienka to the Attorney General, the head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine for the conduct of an examination of the circumstances of the theft of shares in Naftohimik Nakartak, Nadgorna and Galicina Drogbic oil companies. All the parliamentary inquiries that have come have been made to me. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I will inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Karpov Alexander Mikolaiovich from the People's Democratic Party. Let's move on to the national MPs. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the performance. Anatoly Nostawaiko, a faction of Communists, prepare Eugene Kirilchuk. Puzakov's office, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u6	Thank you. Please pass the word to Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u7	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. For 12 years now, we have allegedly been building a civilized, democratic state. When we think about walking in the right way, most of us should have a good, patient, and merciful life, and our children should have a happy life. But instead, every year we see increasing crime, both among adults and among children. Everyone has become accustomed to the constant killings, robberies, beatings, and constant trauma of the child’s soul, feeling the severity of loved ones and even family members. But in the Soviet era, when pure love was the rule in creating a family where understanding, culture, and children were desirable. The Soviet State understood that the family could raise children on its own and that it needed help. Thus, from the earliest days of Soviet power, nursery, kindergartens, general education, sports, music schools, science and technology stations and various circles have been established where children have received knowledge, rest and could develop as an individual. What now? About 60,000 children live in troubled families only in our area. Five thousand children and adolescents live in terrible conditions, often without the most basic food, clothing, and learning opportunities. These children are actively completing the criminal environment. During the first half of 2003, 37 families were deprived of parental rights in our area. Homes, orphanages, and boarding schools are not able to accommodate all who have to be isolated from their own parents. Even now, it is clear to all that such institutions do not solve the problem of the full upbringing of orphaned children at times with living fathers and mothers, in coffee shops. It can be resolved if adopted by adoptive parents or in a family home. Only in this way do children receive what a family can give — care, attention, and happiness — and love. But there is no turn for adoption today. If they are willing to take a foster child, only foreigners. There is, indeed, a good trend in the creation of family homes. But there's only six of them so far. And it's raised in each one of them maybe not more than ten children. It's a drop in the sea. But if anyone wants to take it hard, but good work, it's not easy to get a permit. According to experts, local authorities are not interested in establishing family-type children's homes because they do not want to pay additional costs. It has been three months since the beginning of the school year, and children should be in schools. But the number of them in the streets with their hand outstretched is increasing. Child delinquency is becoming increasingly common among street children. The question is: When will the President's programme to combat childlessness be implemented? Indeed, the programme declares the resolution of child neglect and the creation of conditions for the socio-psychological rehabilitation of children. How and when does the President propose to do so? It's embarrassing for our country and its power. Doesn't the President and the Government realize that it's not the indifference and indifference of the parents, but the economic situation that our once rich Soviet Ukraine is in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u8	Eugene Kirilchuk, a faction of Julia Timoshenko's block, prepare for Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u9	Eugene Kirilchuk, militia of Yulia Timoshenko, Party of the Fatherland Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. Yesterday an unprecedented incident occurred in the budgetary process of the Supreme Council. Majority representatives led by First Vice Prime Minister Mikola Azarov pushed the budget to a second reading. At the same time, after all that can be done. In the absence of common sense, without discussion, without a comparative table, without arguments and arguments that could not be denied, everything was equally insisted upon and adopted in the second reading of the budget. And it's a budget that's practically new and completely different from the first-reading budget, which is completely new macroeconomic indicators, which are reducing wages from 238 to 205, which is planning to increase inflation, which is to increase prices and price cuts. While the budget code prohibits deficits, it is planned to increase deficits. The combination of value added tax, the introduction of incomprehensible VAT return bonds, the reduction of income to the Pension Fund, the introduction of some special-subsidies, i.e. everyone who listens to this and closes to Mikola Azarov, has already been allocated subsidies in their districts and allocated funds, and it's written down in this law, although the budget committee has proposed to do it evenly in all areas, proportionally to the population to divide these 400 million into capital investments to cover the entire territory of Ukraine. It's all out of the question. More than 5 billion real incomes have been hidden on the budget committee, and that's not enough for people to pay, and the strong ministries, the state administration of the President's affairs, are growing. For example, there were 195 million a year ago, 304 million in the first reading, 40 million in the budget committee, and 18 million in the second reading there. So the money is, it's going to be a splattering process, it's going to be a process of getting closer to manual money management. So, Azarianism goes from tax service to, you can't take that budget in second reading. A vote should be postponed in order to go through all stages of consideration and make the right decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u10	Thank you. Vladimir Leschchenko. Prepare the Axes. Please turn on the Lechchenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u11	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy, Olínik Boris Ilíchi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u12	Boris Olinick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, we certainly have some positive spiritual qualities. And it is evident that the most noticeable movement in this sense is seen first and foremost in areas where authorities are held by state thinkers. And at the same time, it's strange that these leaders are not very respectable. Is this not where our main cause is not? Even the fiercest opponents of Alexander Omelchenk do not deny the fact that his rule has brought reproach on the European capital. Let not everything involved be taken for granted, or with the opposite. However, progress has been made. But only then does a man get comfortable with the law of national-spiritual competitions, as clouds hover over him. Recruited pens track down each step of the order by searching for the smallest sins. Today, such customers are being developed. Alexander Alexanderovich. It is futile to refute the many insinuations about him, for it seems that for some forces the main fault of Omelchenk is that he holds a firm state position. The same ice cold is felt, felt, and felt by many other conscious leaders in various chairs, and the most painful is not even the anger of the superiors, but the sense of loneliness and not protection. So where is our community to support, to protect the movers from adepts of public-human values, read the globalists. The Constitution has declared the people the only source of power, and until on our earth, we marvel at the first brave, toe - toe - to - toe to - toe to help her. So it is vital that we unite the true citizens of our nation. And he began by initiating the All - Ukrainian, public committee for the protection of objects of cultural heritage and native language, which will act in the first line of defense and offensive, responding to the slightest disturbance in the spirit realm. And, as a kind of world control, it will not allow the public to escape responsibility. In the meantime, let's start with the smallest. Remove VAT from the spirit realm, for where it is issued to pay taxes for beauty, for patriotism, for everything that surrounds us and makes us citizens. Because even taking VAT from libraries is a disgrace! And let us finally move from crying on the Ukrainian rivers to action on the spiritual field above the shores of the eternal river. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u14	National MP Sokirko, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u15	Please give the floor to Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u16	Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u17	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! What happened yesterday at the adoption of the budget in the Budget Committee is an attempt to eliminate parliamentaryism, and for the people of Ukraine, I explain that this is an attempt to hide, i.e. steal 5 to 6 billion dollars from the people. That's what this is all about. I'm paying attention to the Head of the Supreme Council and asking for your personal intervention, Vladimir Mikhailovich, look, we only got the full budget, the health book, just two days ago. Where is the protection of the interests of Ukraine’s national deputies? Where is this protection? We now have the right, in accordance with the Rules of each article, to make our comments. I'm not saying that there's no comment on the Rules of Procedure, there's a violation of the rights of deputies, so why do we have to press us now and there have to be on the Budget Committee. I believe that it is necessary to protect the interests of the people's deputies and that there should be a transparent budget process for society. And I would ask that this opportunity be given to the members of the Committee on Budgets as well. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! It's the third day we've been in the new Attorney General's office and we haven't been able to talk, and what the Attorney General hasn't seen. I am going to publish today a series of things that have not been seen and stolen from the people of Ukraine. And so, I remind you that in this very room, the agreements between Ukraine and Turkey to build an oil pipeline were ratified, which meant to fill the Odessa oil terminal, and Ukraine was going to get alternative energy supplies. In March 2003, the Supreme Council also ratified an oil pipeline agreement in Lebanon. The cost of the project is a hundred million dollars. The construction of both oil pipelines was entrusted to the Ukrainian State Corporation of Cross-borderft Construction. But now the Head of the Ivano-Frankow District Administration, Vishivanuk, writes a letter to the Cabinet of Ministers requesting the liquidation of the state-owned enterprise "Westcross-Floornaftogabudsday"? With further privatization. I'm not asking you to privatize an enterprise at a price of ten to fifteen times the actual cost, because that's clear enough. I'm asking about the colossal abuse in the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Ivano-Frankow district when the investigators of the U.S.S.A. Investigations Department in the Ivano-Frankiv district committed a crime, and it was just so shut down without any reason. I have the evidence and the evidence that the prosecutor of the Ivano-Frankow district is to be removed from office for this, and all the documents I provide to the Attorney General's Office. This crime against the prosecutor must be prosecuted for inaction and for covering up the theft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u18	Commie faction, prepare Eugene Gorgeous.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u19	Vladimir Mihajlovich, be kind, pass on Radio's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u20	Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u21	A faction of Communists, Rodionov. Dear radio listeners, chairman and national MPs! Today, I would like to raise one question that visitors talk about every time at each reception. Every reception is held on Wednesday at Vanda Vasilevsky's reception. What they come with and what they talk about. I just want to say that it's not just, and usually not Communists, everyone who's in pain is coming. First of all, this is the vast part of the population of Ukraine that is living below the poverty line. Of course, I don't think there are other problems. But these are basically two problems. The first is nothing. And the second is to live somewhere. It's in the fullest sense. To date, many or most people are already thinking, not about how to treat themselves, but about how to buy bread. The situation is in such a way that even at the highest level of government today, the increase in the price of bread cannot be avoided. And prices will rise. Moreover, I would like to say that no one is likely to object to the increase in prices for bread and in the world community. As a result, our majority of citizens are doomed to hunger. It's a famine in this century! It's not last century! That's the first one. Second. As far as the roof is concerned. Most of our citizens live in what they received in Soviet times, when every worker or peasant could, is it hard, but ever to hope that he gets the apartment. So today it turns out that there are three, four living quarters in one-, two-, three-room apartments, and yesterday's reception case, five families! Even if they all sell their last pants, they'll never get out of it! People were deprived of their blood. Therefore, the Communists feel that people must be helped. Sadly, though, when you receive these people, you become powerless. Come out alone. As the famous song said, no one will deliver us. We need to go out and protect our own interests. Both Kiev's bitter party and the Communist Party are planning action to protect the bread. Give people a piece of his earnings next Thursday next week. If we don't fight for our own bread, for our own blood. For blood on your head, no one else. This regime, this capitalist device, it's only then to deprive its citizen of a piece of bread.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u22	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u23	Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! It is not enough that recent attacks on the political rights of our citizens are taking place in the form of what is called Communistism. The so-called constitutional reform, which is intended to limit the right of the Ukrainian people to choose a nation. The President has recently begun an attack on the economic rights of our citizens to the position of the people in a way called Azarianism. That is, the violation of Parliament's rights, the denial of the rights of the people's deputies at the time of the adoption of Ukraine's 2004 budget. The adoption of the budget takes place in an atmosphere of hysteria on television and direct pressure on committees and on national deputies working on committees in grave violation of the Supreme Council Rules, with a grave violation of the Budget Code yesterday to oppose the decision to support the government's budget. But what does it mean for Ukrainian citizens? Despite all the assurances in his social life, he means a de facto decline in the standard of living of people. I mean, the minimum wage reduction from 237 to 205 dollars, the non-response rate. Contrary to the conclusions of the budget committee, only 1 billion dollars have been allocated to the budget committee instead of 1.8 billion dollars. This budget represents problems in the Pension Fund, namely, covering the shortfall in the budget of the State Budget for the allocation of pension payments at the expense of the Pension Fund. And as a result, two billion dollars of pension funds are becoming the problems of the Pension Fund itself, which will certainly affect the payment of pensions in the state. Predicted inflation is 6 percent, with prices of bread and goods already rising by 25-30 percent and still rising. There are plans for a budget coup on Tuesday by a vote of "goodyams." I address the Head of the Supreme Council, not to allow this indulgence, this indeterminate in the Supreme Council. Allow all committees to draw their conclusions on the second reading of the budget. This budget, proposed by the government, is anti-national, and it has no right to go through. There is a need for a vote, and we need the conclusions of all the committees of the Supreme Council. Vladimir Mikhailovich, don't let the budget lose parliamentaryism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u24	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of our Ukraine, to prepare Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u25	Honorable head, distinguished fellow national MPs. This week — November 19 — 14 years after three Ukrainian patriots Vasil Stus, Alex Tychius, and Yuri Litwin were returned from the Persian concentration camps. Sadly, today’s authorities have not mentioned this Jubilee. These were the first three Ukrainian patriots, Ukrainian political prisoners, who returned to their home country, sadly too. And today, on a daily basis, we must mention those who tortured those Ukrainian patriots and, above all, the great lawyer, today's head of President Victor Medvedczuk's administration, who was essentially acting as second prosecutor in the Vassil Stus trial and sent, without blinking, the death of this brilliant poet and Ukrainian patriot. And I've told you many times, the man who sent one person to die, he's going to kill the whole nation. And when we mention today the 70th anniversary of the horror, the famine, the genocide of the Ukrainian people, it is once again with great regret that States such as the United States, Argentina, Canada, Australia, others, their representative bodies, have recognized this tragedy of the Ukrainian people as genocide. Regrettably, the Ukrainian authorities have done their utmost to ensure that at the level of the United Nations this tragedy does not result in the mass extermination of Ukraine as genocide. It was understood that the Ukrainian leadership, and so was the President, who was also the head of the President’s Administration, had been assured before hearing from the United Nations that Russia had been appeased as a perpetrator of those crimes of the Communist regime, that Ukraine would not insist on recognizing this tragedy as genocide. Because recognition by genocide is an appropriate legal, legal consequence. So, respectable community, Ukrainian community! We have to understand that today's genocide of the Ukrainian people is creating conditions under which millions of Ukrainians are fleeing abroad to get a piece of bread somewhere. What is being done within Ukraine today is the offspring of the catas of the time today, creating this tragedy in Ukraine. And I ask that, a respected community, remember the Ukrainian patriots Stus, the Pacific, Lithuania, and millions and millions of countless victims of the Ukrainians, remember the moment of silence and standing, please do so. The Communists, raise your ass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u26	Gmira, please. I'm asking you to calm down. It's going to come together. Jaroslav Kenzier, take your seats, please. I'd like you to take a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, Jaroslav Kendeur has now taken the bait. He pretended that he was trying to remember Stus' memory, while at that time he was plowing, “Kcommunists, raise your backs.” It's a homage. Especially with Studs. And you don't have to tell this story, gentlemen of nationalists, like you do for Ukraine. What's happening with Ukraine today is your business. You know, when you brought Victor Medvedchuck into the Vice Speaker's chair in 2000, I said, "That's one gang." Today I agree to repeat this with only one small correction. These are two gangs that have destroyed, destroyed and destroyed Ukraine until they are stopped. But it's not long before you make fun of our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u28	Oleg Belarus, militia faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u29	Honorable MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. At the 2002 summit of the Heads of State of the Millennium under the auspices of the United Nations in Johannesburg, the President of Ukraine made a high commitment to overcoming poverty in Ukraine, a poverty that brought Ukraine to the brink of a national disaster. In particular, he promised the world to do everything possible to reduce poverty annually and to reduce poverty in Ukraine by 50 percent by 2015. Today, Ukraine shows that the government and government are doing nothing to ensure that the program is implemented. Today, it has reached the point of an unprecedented increase in the price of bread in Ukraine’s postwar history. And the limit is very close if the price of a loaf of bread in Ukraine goes up to two bracelets, which is close to that. It's inevitable that we have to wait for the loaves of bread, and the food crisis is the reflection of crisis, of power first. It's a social crisis that leads to unprecedented social tension, a lack of confidence in the Government of Ukraine dictates to opposition factions to question mistrust, because it's a mistrust of the people, not just the political forces. The government promised not to raise the price of bread. The government has promised to punish traders who, in the interests of profit, raise the price of bread, and there is no such thing. Ukraine’s budget is being manipulated and converted into a police state budget today. Compared with past years’ expenditure and the highest priorities are given to the President’s Administration, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and other power structures. If these budgeted, national funds were to provide for Ukrainian citizens, especially those with bread shortages, there would be no such a bread crisis. We need to be aware that the budget is being broken down by burying national funds under various articles, such as special subsidies, for the purchase of special equipment. Thus, the social nature of the budget has been undermined. I think that the government's minimum wage of 205 dollars should be transferred to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u30	Assadchev, the lineup, and we're done. Time's up, now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u31	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm not a replica, I'm just trying to give you information, because a few deputies were asking questions about yesterday's decision by the Budget Committee. Indeed, I want to say that I do not yet remember such a presumptuous decision that would have been deliberately extended by Mikola Janović Azarov, he actually came to the committee and ruled by the majority, as it were. No one listened to any argument that we could still have a week's work as a budget. And finally, on the team, the majority voted. The only thing that the committee voted by name, and I can say that the representatives of the four factions are "Our Ukraine" is BUT, the Socialists and the Communists have voted against this decision by name. But most of them stretched it out and now he has to listen in the way the government gave him. Now for the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u32	Andrew Polit, please. Time's up, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u33	I ask you to pass the word to Hinsburg Olga Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u34	One minute, please, because the time is up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u35	Thank you, because I have a very important performance. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! At each reception, the electorate asks me a simple and fair question: When can Ukraine’s savings be saved? It's not just my voters in the 161st Connotapian constituency. Millions of people in Ukraine have been deceived, robbed, and robbed. Costs that have been carefully composed for years and decades earned in Soviet times are now inaccessible to laborers, as are those who have earned them with their own hands and entrusted them to the state, and the governing regime has managed them in its own way. And we all remember that in order to do so, there was a particularly intense inflation, and now, in the government budget of Ukraine last year, there were only 500 million dollars to return to the investors. And I, as a communist, find it totally unacceptable that such things happen. At the rate that we're doing this right now, our country is running low on citizens' savings and will be going back 250 years. And these incomes are needed by my voters today to heal, to pay for the apartment, to teach the children, to buy the necessary food. The State's particular cruelty to retired veterans is those who are 90 years old and 90 years old. But we need to bow low to our grandparents for their war exploits during the Great Homeland War, for their peacetime work, and to see that in these merciless conditions today they have been able to live to such an honorable age. There are not so many people in Ukraine. And I believe that we, the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, need to take them into special care and find an opportunity to return the labour savings to everyone who is 90 years old. Although in my constituency, for example, there are 676 of them. And two men over a hundred years of age can't get their money either. In addition, I have been approached by people from all over Ukraine. For example, a participant in the Great Homeland War, a disabled first group, a resident of the village of Vepri. He writes, "I was 96 years old on June 20, and I was born in 1997. He's a fighter. I can't get my money either. Even the 50 bracelets he needs, he can't get them without a turn. And he's asking you to help me, distinguished national MPs. There are so many such references. And the problem needs to be solved at the state level. Why am I raising that question today? Because the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers are working on the 2004 budget, and I'm expressing an opinion on Their comrades of the Communist Party of Ukraine, you don't have to invent a bicycle, you have to take advantage of the experience of the neighbouring states -- Russia, Belarus -- where they solved the problem of the return of labour savings. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I ask you to entrust the Committee on Budgets with the temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the financial and economic basis of sources and mechanisms for the restoration of Ukrainian citizens' savings. Before the 2001 practice, it is necessary for all people to return their savings in order to start paying their savings to those who are over 90 years of age, and for them to do so. Thank you. And I want to say more. Whatever the representatives of the Movement are doing here today, whatever they say today, they will never be on the same level as the Communist Party, which at one time revived the Soviet state, gave its people life.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u37	And it will always be in the memory of our people today who remember the good times.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! Presentations by national deputies with applications, queries, messages completed. I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate instructions on the issues raised during the presentations. We are now moving on to the consideration of issues, according to the schedule of meetings for today’s Friday. We're working on a reduced procedure in dealing with issues. I'm proposing because we spent an hour on statements, speeches and messages, at 12 o'clock not to take a break from the 13th insult to the national MPs. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the regulation of the circulation of precious metals and precious stones is being announced for consideration. Reporter is Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Megonovich. Please, briefly. To prepare for the Committee of Philip Philipovich Budjighan.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u39	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft law on the introduction of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the circulation of precious metals and precious stones, the circulation of precious metals and precious stones, has been developed with a view to resolving the legislative division of functions in the market for precious metals between the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank of Ukraine. The draft law amends three laws of Ukraine: State regulation of production and use of precious metals, enforcement and the National Bank of Ukraine. Changes to articles. Ukraine’s 3 and 9 Law on Governmental Control of Production, Production, and Use of Precious Metals is based on the fact that according to article 8 of this Law, Ukraine’s gold reserves are created and stored by the National Bank. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance’s functions are not related to the formation of Ukraine’s gold reserves. Amendments to articles 58 and 61 of the Law on the Enforcement of Ukraine are based on what they establish, the order and conditions of keeping property on which securities, jewelry, and other household items, gold, silver, and so forth are arrested. And the order of implementation is determined by the National Bank of Ukraine without the participation of the executive authorities. Along with the Ukrainian Law on Governmental Control of Production, Production and Use of Precious Metals, the Ministry of Finance has set up a function for the formation of the State Fund for Precious Metals and under the laws of precious stones to which precious metals and precious stones should be acquired and counted by the relevant authorities. That is why it is proposed to supplement this law regarding the participation of the Ministry of Finance in the development of order and storage conditions, as well as the arrangements for the implementation of jewelry and other household products made of precious metals and precious stones that are subject to arrest. Amendments to article 49 of the Ukrainian National Bank Act are made in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Governmental Control of Production, Production and Use of Precious Metals, created by a national repository of precious metals and precious stones on which the function of purchasing, receiving, storing, selling and processing precious metals is laid. Therefore, the National Bank is not the only treasurer of precious metals, precious stones, and other gems belonging to the State. The implementation of the proposed bill does not require additional financial costs. The bill is in agreement with the National Bank. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u40	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Philip Philipovich Budzigan of the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property, and Investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u41	Dear National Deputies! In its consideration of Bill No. 3508, the Committee on Economic Policy, at its meeting on 14 October this year, concluded that today's regulatory framework in this area has led to a duplication of the functions of two public authorities: the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and the National Bank of Ukraine. And so it was necessary to amend some of the laws of Ukraine regarding government regulation of the circulation of precious metals and precious stones. The bill introduces changes and additions to Ukraine’s laws. The first is about the National Bank of Ukraine. To the second law on government regulation of production, production, and use of precious metals, precious stones, and control of operations with them. But it's about implementation. In order to resolve the issue of the legislative separation of functions in the market for precious metals between the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance and the National Bank of Ukraine. The clarifications proposed by the project will allow for better regulation of the authorization of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and the National Bank of Ukraine in the market for precious metals. In particular, with regard to the location, order, and condition of the gold reserve, as well as the realisation of the property on which the arrest was made, securities, jewelry, and other household goods made of gold, silver, platinum, and platinum, precious stones and pearls, as well as scraps and parts of such products. The bill is therefore worthy of support. The committee proposes to adopt, on the basis of a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the regulation of the circulation of precious metals and precious stones. To be completed. When preparing for second reading, we need to take into account the proposals made by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration to clarify the terms "Gold-Currency" or "Gold-Currency Reserve". Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u42	Thank you, Philip Philipovich, sit down. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? No one insists on discussing it? None. Then we'll assume that we've considered this. Thus, a review of the draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the regulation of the circulation of precious metals and precious stones has been completed. The decision will be made at the appointed time. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Electricity Act on the protection of energy objects is being announced for consideration. Reporter: First Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine Tatarinov Anatoly Arefiyovich. Get ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u43	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity. The proposed draft law proposes to supplement Ukraine's Law on Electricity with article 19.1 on the establishment of a special protection regime in the area of a banned and controlled area of hydroelectric equipment, which would mean that in the area of a restricted zone and a controlled zone of hydroelectric facilities, access to foreign persons and all modes of transport is only possible in order established by the owner of a hydroelectric facility or an authorized body. The work carried out by outsiders in the restricted area of hydroelectric buildings is carried out in an order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And in the area of the controlled area of hydroelectric buildings, in order established by the owner of these buildings or by the authority authorized by it. The area of the banned and controlled area of hydroelectric facilities is protected by a belligerent military guard. In the area of the restricted area of these buildings, there is a special internal and permeable regime. The special features of the restricted area and the controlled area are defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In addition, the draft Ukrainian Law provides for the legislative definition of such terms as "the banned area of hydroelectric buildings", "the controlled area of hydroelectric buildings" and "the particularly important objects of electricity". The legislative definition of the above terms will help them to understand clearly in order to ensure reliable protection of the energy objects in these areas. The ultimate goal of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Electricity is to secure reliable protection of hydroelectric facilities against terrorist and other criminal attacks. Given that the granting of hydroelectric facilities to a restricted and controlled area will ensure reliable protection of hydroelectric facilities, the Government requests support for a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u44	Thank you. Will there be questions for the reporter? There's one, two. Doesn't anyone else insist? We're not gonna make a record? Then please sign in. Yes, please, Gorenik, follow him, Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u45	Dear reporter. I think this bill is necessary, but it came from an incident at the Dniestrów Hydroelectric Station. That's why I have this question. Without this law, would it be possible to protect the intervention of a foreign state, a foreigner of another state, or could it not? Why did the hydroelectric power plant have so much to do with the incident?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u46	Ukraine's Electricity Act defines the status of these buildings and operates the protection regime for these objects. But in view of the need to strengthen the protection regime for these objects today, as defined in the law, terrorist acts or other abuses, due to the fact that hydroelectric buildings are already being built in some places and cooperatives of the data, and the land is being used for other purposes, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has acknowledged the strengthening of the Law on Electricity from these supplements to the content of the bill and the strengthening of the nature of the protection of these objects.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u47	Please, Masenko, get ready for Pellcake.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u48	Thank you. I have a question of this nature. Here we have lived with you all in the same system, in a system of things that is now very bad words, and today some people understand it in their own way. But we all witnessed that no one and no one had any idea how to steal lines or wires of electricity, such as stealing other electrical objects, and why the situation now arose, that this was such a state disorder, that it was both possible and even necessary to some extent for the people involved. And no one in the state can put order in this regard. And these are the regimes, these are the state systems, and they had no idea, and now it's pretty general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u49	To avoid this, we will strengthen the Law on Electricity with these positions and actions that will be applied in connection with the adoption of this law. With regard to other issues that you have reported, there are such actions. There are issues that also need to be addressed by the relevant legislative acts, and such legislative acts by us in particular the Ministry of Fuel Energy are being handled and submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to strengthen the protection of energy supplies and thermal power plants.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u50	Please, Hellcat, follow him, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u51	84 constituency. Zaporozhye district. Of course, this law is very relevant, timely, and I, and my faction, will support this law. At the same time, not to be desired as a matter of principle, but to be received as always. I'm interested in two questions. First. If these changes are not cost-effective, the cost of electricity will be increased and hence the price of electricity will be increased. That's the first question I'm interested in. And the second question. You mentioned in your statement that there will now be an attack on those horticultural societies that are near your facilities, whether or not the attack on the land that is under siege to preserve your transmitting devices will begin. The area of the farmland will begin to be cut off. These are two main issues that concern me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u52	Thank you. In drafting the bill, we also took into account whether the budget would be needed to implement the law. Or it will affect the rise of kilowatt-hour electricity in production processes. I will say that, today, in hydrotechnical facilities, these facilities are protected, there is non-ministerial security, which works with departmental security agencies, and this will not require a significant increase. I can't say exactly how much it is today, but the controlled area is now in the territory of these facilities. And as for the damage to the area, I think that these zones are today, we just want to legitimize them today. In order to be defined by law and so that we can respond clearly, both we and the other parties, to the abuses that exist in some places today. And we are afraid, and we really want this law to preserve those territories that are now adjacent to these sites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u53	Anatoly Arefiyovich, says that these areas, which are under the power lines, are dangerous to health, so here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u54	And that's true of the power lines, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u55	Please, Karmazin. 10:55
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u56	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. I have a few questions for you, please tell me you're giving 500 meters to complete the article of the Electricity Act. 500 meters from the ridge is marked with signs and so forth. What about from the point of view of the Earth Code? Who are we going to delete her from? Is it not forbidden to build these 500 meters, or should it be banned? On whose account and from which land will we separate these 500 meters, and why 500? You complete the law with article 19 p.m. "The establishment of a special security regime." I realized that no one else would be able to get there. So it has to be written that some laws are distributed there, not just by the owner. Because I can see it's just another law for me. And why, you think, weren't the committees involved: the agrarian committee, the nature conservation committee, and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u57	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! Indeed, article 19.1 establishes such a regime for the protection of these objects, and this regime will be determined by the appropriate decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This is not the Ministry of Fuel and Energy’s own activity and the directors of those objects to which the bill will apply. With regard to the 500 meters taken under these security zones, this was indeed agreed upon and was contacted by the managers of these companies. This issue has been studied by experts and experts from the Committee on Fuel and Energy in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this bill has been passed and supported by members of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, it has been considered on other committees and has not received any comments or suggestions on the non-admission of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u58	Please turn on the Peckshank microphone again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u59	Another important question. One way or another, enough land will be removed. So I wonder, Who and how much will pay for this land?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u60	In this bill it will be, I think, a document adopted by the Cabinet of the Minister of Ukraine and in this document is a legal act that will determine the condition and procedure for the removal of these land and water areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u61	Thank you, Anatoly Arefiyovich. A member of the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Oleg Grigorovich Panasovski, will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u62	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Anatoly Arefievich has argued that it is appropriate and necessary to amend the Energy Act to protect hydrotechnical facilities belonging to the strategic class. For information. These particularly important sites are to be protected in peacetime by specialized paramilitary security within the structure of the energy industries on whose balance these facilities are located. During military times, specialized military units of the Ministry of Defence are transferred to the security of Ukraine. The Act should apply not only to hydrotechnical installations of hydroelectric plants but also to hydrotechnical installations, dams, reservoirs, thermal power plants with a negotiable closed water supply system. The importance of the objects justifying the need for the adoption of this law.Act, its objectives, the state of the legal and regulatory framework in this area gives us the right to adopt this law when we discuss it in the first reading and in general, because the socio-economic and other consequences may only be due to its non-admission. The Act has been legalized and approved in its deliberations on the nuclear policy and nuclear security fuel and energy package in the Sectoral Committee. We will recommend that it be adopted as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u63	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Does anyone insist on the performance? Please, then the word is Karmazin, get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u64	By the way, there were questions. These territories have long been allocated and paid for by the enterprise in which they are located. It's just a matter of legislative backing up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u65	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block of Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, you see that now Oleg Grigorovich, seeing me, has rightly mentioned that this should be secured by law. But when we legally establish that we give 500 meters to one person, we have to legally establish that we take 500 meters from someone. And if we are to enforce this by law, we need to think clearly that there can be situations in common. And these issues will have to be settled by the courts. Thus, we create a serious, serious problem. So let's just say we don't cut off 500 meters from the candace, and we're going to figure out what the norm is. And in addition, I'd like to ask the committees and the agrarian committee to be commissioned, and the environmental committee to consider it and to make conclusions, at least they didn't give us their consent. Next. If these 500 meters are to be allocated directly to hydroelectric buildings, it has to be clearly written here in the law that the location of any buildings in the adjacent area is prohibited, temporary or non-temporary, and so on. Then it will not be possible to trade with them and with them. Now, honourable national deputies, I asked questions about article 19 prima. It provides for the establishment of a special protection regime in the area of the restricted zone and in the controlled area of hydroelectric facilities. And it's very good that she's setting up this territory. However, I would like our country to have the rule of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. And it should be clearly written here that in addition to the access of outsiders, other than those provided for in the laws of cases. And this will be clear to both the prosecutors and the investigators if this is the case. And if there's drugs in there right now, what is it? And there are. Now there are accidents, and the privatization of all energy - related facilities has gone on. Then what? Can't anyone go in there? You see what the authorities are thinking right now? They're already at the brewery, the holding fund is holding its meetings. At the brewery to solve the issue of property in the territory of Donetské or Dnipropetrovsk. The same will be done on these subjects. We can't even check it out. So I think the bill is still raw. Right now, before the vote, we have to put in place a bill that's being passed, where it says that, taking into account the requirements of Ukrainian legislation, this is happening. Because it is not possible to give everything as a ransom to the owner of these objects. And now, if we're writing that military security, let's do it, Your Honor, we're going to adopt a long-suffering arms law that I've been asking you for since 1994, and the Ukrainian people have been writing about. What about you, how will you arm her with this militarized defense, what will you arm her with? Crotch? So far, the only way to arm them is by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u66	Thank you. Please give the floor to the Puzakov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u67	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradčina. In 2000, the Supreme Council adopted a new Law on Electricity. For the time being, it was a good law. But today he's done his job and he needs to be changed immediately. Today is probably the time to address the problem of accumulated debt. Here's the change in the law, and it had to be done, too. Lack of funding is a problem in the energy system today. The anti-crisis programme in this sector is a clear example of a more or less successful attempt to address the lack of funds through management methods. The resumption of privatization in energy, however, will not fully address funding problems. In Ukraine's energy strategy until 2030, the focus is on increasing coal production and heat generation. For this purpose, the 2004 draft budget again provides partial compensation for the cost of coal. However, there may be serious external market problems in the Ukrainian steel industry. There is no secret that our producers claim unfair competition. But the steel industry gives Ukraine about $6 billion a year in external markets. We need to keep that in mind and, of course, to keep that money, we need to give up the coal subsidy. There won't be a tragedy. For example. The holding company Alexanderiaugol also felt that without a grant, we could not live. But she was shown what could be done if the farm was to be sound and rational. But we must not allow our mines to close. Anything that can be financially healed must be healed. Yes, today has become easier to buy someone else’s, perhaps cheaper. In doing so, we forget the truth: the more we use our raw materials, the more we depend on our supplier neighbours. The State must fill the budget so that all people live normal lives. And if we want cheap Russian coal and get a good economy of a separate station, we will never get a good economy of the whole state, and by developing our own we have mines, jobs, stations, budgets, normal human life. Here's a new version of the Electricity Act, and you had to see it all coming. And if you make changes, they're so important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u68	Please, no one else insists on speaking out of those who sign up? Thank you. Then the question is concluded. You and I will determine when the vote is due. Dear colleagues, after the next bill, we should consult. There are two bills. One from the Cabinet of Ministers, the other from the National Deputy of Zvaric. The national MP got sick. Maybe we'll have to listen to the Cabinet, even though we'll lose some time, because then we'll have to listen to and talk to the national deputy of Zvaric. But how far is the Cabinet of Ministers' representative, that profile committee, Dry? Then, perhaps, so that we don't call the minister anymore, we don't take it off, let's listen to the government, but we'll only vote when we hear from the national deputy of the cook. Please report to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u69	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The point is that we also support the draft, the bill of the National MP Zvaric. And I think it's settled here. But for starters, I would like to emphasize the essence of our bill. The fact is that with the adoption last November of the Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian law on the protection of work, the disabled have lost the opportunity to work nightly and overtime. That is, they have been restricted to rights, which is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine and the Convention of International Labour Organization No. 159 concerning occupational rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. Thus, at the legislative level, they were narrowed down to jobs where disabled persons could be employed, employers began to transfer them to other jobs, in some cases even if there were no medical objections. The aim of the bill developed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine is to remove the inadequacy of the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act and the Code of Labour Laws in Ukraine. Because article 16 of the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act of October 14, 1992, and articles 55, 63 and 172 of the Ukrainian Labour Code provide that the work of persons with disabilities at night and the involvement of persons with disabilities in overtime work are possible, but only by their consent and provided that this is not contrary to the medical recommendations of the medical and social expert commissions. Therefore, the draft Ukrainian law amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act. It is proposed in part 3 of article 12 of the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act, as of 21 November 2002, that the words “not permitted” should be replaced by the words “perhaps only by their consent and provided that this does not conflict with the recommendations of the medical and social expert commissions”. The adoption of the proposed changes will allow the right of persons with disabilities to work nightly and overtime, to ensure equal opportunities with other categories of persons, to improve their material status, and to guarantee them a wider range of specialties and occupations. I would also like to point out that this bill was supported by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work. Please support this bill as a social-important bill that protects social rights and guarantees of a particular type of population that is people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u70	Thank you, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, sit down, please. The head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, Vasil Georgievich Hara, will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u71	Dear colleagues! You know that the current norm, and we have a new draft of the Labour Protection Act in 2002, prevents persons with disabilities from being involved in overtime and night work. But since our committee has considered the two bills and today is on the agenda, it is simply the people's MP Zvaric, the author of another bill is not present, and I would like to refer to him. Draft Law 3465 of the Zvarić People's Deputy and 3465-1 of the Cabinet of Ministers are virtually the same. But there's one thing that's very important. The draft law of the Zvarić People's Deputy requires that a disabled person be involved in overtime and night work only if the recommendation of the Medical and Social Expert Commission is available. The Cabinet of Ministers' project also includes the consent of the disabled person, the personal consent of the disabled person, which significantly distinguishes the two projects. The draft MP Zvarić considered the Committee as early as June of this year and took a negative decision on it and recommended that the Supreme Council reject it. During the period leading up to the emergence of a similar law by the Cabinet of Ministers, many letters, telephone calls from persons with disabilities and disabled organizations have been sent to our committee to support and address the draft Cabinet of Ministers. As practice really shows, many of these arguments have shown that people with disabilities today suffer from the unregulatedness of the issue. Because individual work cannot involve persons with disabilities during the night, they are trying to move from these positions to lower-paid ones, to others and indeed there are very often cases of people with disabilities being dismissed from work. A positive decision was taken by the Committee on this issue in the case of disabled pensioners, disabled veterans. There are recommendations from the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council. This decision, if we adopt it positively, will not be contrary to the ILO conventions of the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, in view of the need to address this issue, the Committee makes the following proposal to you. Draft Law of the People's Deputy Zvarić 3465 - reject. Because it does not address the problems of persons with disabilities. And to adopt the Cabinet of Ministers bill as a whole, and this will solve the problem of persons with disabilities to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u72	Thank you, Vasil Georgiyovich, sit down, please. Does anyone insist on the performance? They insist. Please, Karmazin, get ready for Yavorowski. Oh, no? All right, then, Hinsburg prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u73	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the National Deputy Zvaric has asked these questions for the first time, and I thank him not because he is in my constituency or entering the faction, but because he raised these questions because he made the government think, he made the committees think. And, of course, since the law was passed on May 8, 2003, and this was passed at the end of August by the law of the government, I think from the point of view of authorship it would be necessary to make a wise decision and combine these two bills. Moreover, they have exactly the same object and are not the same as they contradict each other. I am pleased to see that National Deputy Zvaric saw that the International Labour Organization Convention No. 159 on Professional Rehabilitation and Occupation of Persons with Disabilities, which was ratified by the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Convention on Occupational Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which we saw in 2003 is the introduction of the current legislation of Ukraine to European standards and the inclusion of these requirements in the text of Ukrainian legislation. And so I think that the adoption of this bill, which, of course, will be supported by individual people's deputies, will contribute to the provision of equal opportunities for persons with disabilities to work with other categories of workers, will allow persons with disabilities to work at night and overtime if they have the ability and consent to do so, will improve their material status, will guarantee them a broader circle of specialties and occupations that they can occupy. By the way, honourable national deputies, what is provided for is funding under the disability protection line in the state budget project submitted by the government of Azarov. I don't know whether you've ever seen a living invalid or not. I want you to know that we have several million people in the state, Mikola Janovich. And this budget that you've proposed today is completely destroying these people, it's completely associative and the worst in the history of an independent Ukraine. That is why this law must be adopted. I think it's necessary for the law to be passed and the cook to be the basis, and the government, I repeat, on a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u74	Thank you. Please, I've already announced Olga Hinzburg, after that from Yavorowski, Dry and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me for giving me this word, I thank you for not contradicting me, especially Deputy Dry One. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, my constituents. I have a lot to say on this subject, and almost nothing. First, speaking of the very essence of the law, we want to talk a lot, but the very problem of the disabled who are now being brought to work at night to allow them to work is causing concern. And there's something else to talk about, and we have a law with you that raises a lot of questions for entrepreneurs and businesses when there's the Disability Act, where every enterprise has to provide a 4 percent job security for people with disabilities. And if there's a factory, for example, he's told that you have 30 jobs there today to create for the disabled. And this factory says, well, I'll create these jobs, but where do I get the disabled? So here I have, for example, in my Conotap it's a whole problem. At least go out with your flag on the city and shout: Disabled people, come to my place of work. And if you haven't created 30 jobs or brought a person here, you have to count your average earnings to the Disability Fund. And they ask, if he counted, where did the money go then, if they were counted? Perhaps they will go to improve the lives of the disabled whom we now offer to work at night. Is there any other way we can go about this? Or with companies to say, we're putting a tax on you. If, for example, you have such a profit. You have a tax of three percent or two. It's for the disabled, and we won't have any trouble making them work at night. It's such a problem, it's today, if you're talking at all, and there's a person sitting there, a particular person, listening to the radio today and thinking, and what are they going to say about me, about me, the disabled person who gets that low salary, tomorrow the bread goes up to 50 bucks, what am I going to do, what are they going to tell me, and what am I going to hear, what am I going to be able to live tomorrow? So I propose today, of course, that we can support this law, because it's a way out of this situation, but it's not a solution. And the company's job creation law needs to be reviewed, because it's not normal. And the second one's completely out. And when I finish my speech, I cannot help but say that why can no one ever tell the truth? I don't know, I always have a heartache when I go out there. 1991, I remember, eighty years. There was no problem with work, no salary, no pension, no institution, no youth, no TV, no newspaper, no life, no funeral home. Well, there was no problem! Broke, smashed. And today they go out, they tell, they shout, and those in power say it's not us, and those who were in power yesterday say it's not us. I'm asking myself, in 12 years, even though there was one communist vice-premier? It wasn't. Was there a communist vice-premier, I repeat? It wasn't. Because there are two of them sitting in opposition. Was he a foreign minister? It wasn't. What was ecology like? It wasn't. Well, who in ten years can be responsible for what happened in the state? Well, stand up and say, yes, the Movement that voted in favour of all laws voted in favour of the Earth Code, the government that signed the decree on evicting people from their apartments for non-remunerated housing? Who's signature stands? Well, get some courage and say, "Don't look for the guilty, but let's just say it." Then it's easier to solve the problem. And if you say it all, it's not me, it's not me. And from the silence there, they made everything their own. Go out and say, open up, stand in front of the mirror and say, "Here I am." One, two. Swim, swim, that's a lot. I mean, we don't decide anything for the disabled or the budget, nothing. And you won't take power like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u76	Please turn on the Yavorowski microphone. Then Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u77	Vladimir Yavorowski, Jovkovsky Districts, Rava Ruska, Lvivščina "Our Ukraine." Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished voters of our own and national deputies! The question is usually painful, very painful, but I am convinced that it should be spoken of without force and without hystericalness. I didn't go to the rostrum because my colleagues generally support this bill as much as I do, so a little bit of economic time. The questions of disabled people, the social protection of disabled people in our Ukraine are usually very busy, very busy, and what we're doing right now is very important. [[I'm referring to Romana Swaper's bill in this respect.]] This law is far from ideal, and I want to tell our people with disabilities that this law will certainly not make you all happy tomorrow, but that it has mechanisms to at least make your life a little easier with the same jobs and the same things. [[And we have a very large mass of them]] I am convinced that no MP will raise his hand to vote against this bill. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I saved up a little bit. You're gonna give me half a minute at the Miscellaneous.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u78	Okay. Thank you. Please, Dry Mike. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u79	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. I've got it. I'm one of the deputies who's gonna raise his hand to vote against this bill. Because you just listen to logic. A person who works in a metallurgical enterprise or works in a mine for various reasons, such as injuries or injuries. Some professional illness became a disability. For night work and overtime, what are they paying for? Yeah, they pay more, but they pay what? Health. The rest of that health. Here's the whole logic of the two laws of Welder and Kabmin have a hypocritically cynical substantiation. If we continue to do so, we will come with you to allow work at night for both children and women. Why can’t a child make a living, for for example, a family with many children? But on the watch of all these standards and there are sanitary requirements. We can't vote for such bills, because they're just covering up the exploitation, and we can't even get a disabled person to work hard. He'll go, he'll go to the chemical plant, he'll go to the bar, and he'll smell, and he'll evaporate. This bill, despite its seemingly attractiveness and logic, will cause only evil for the disabled. That's why I'm going to vote against it, for example.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u80	Thank you. Please, Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u81	Vladimir Puzakov faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Kirovogradština We're for improving the living and working conditions of a disabled person. At the same time, we are offered to vote in favour of including disabled people in overtime and night work. Of course, in order to survive somehow, a disabled person may agree to work at night, but what will result? During 12 years of independence, the state must return to the disabled and take care of their jobs first and foremost, making them competitive. It is not a secret that today the disabled are left alone with their problems. The authorities have no time to worry about them, especially today when the border with Russia needs to be strengthened. We all know that there is a terrible unemployment in the country, although according to the head of state, there has been a significant economic recovery. Why, then, does poverty increase? Why is there a complete degradation of the social sphere? Today, there is a low level of pay for workers and employees and especially for people with disabilities, leading to lower consumption of food. Tuberculosis thrives among the poor. Over a million people with diabetes, including children. An extremely disturbing fact that speaks of an increase in the number of people with disabilities. In 10 years, the number of perfectly healthy young men decreased from 90 percent to 10. Of every 100 newborns, only one is born healthy. The majority of the Ukrainian population live outside the poverty line. This is what the Posier Alexei of M. Alexandria: "Today I am disabled, although I am 49 years old. He's got a disability in the mine. I have a tiny pension that I live on as a bum. And what a humiliation the state has cast upon us! The shaft goes out to pick up government organs, and the miner taps the asphalt with his helmet, beating out his salary, and the miner covers the roadways to feed the family. Not a single Ukrainian pot that was heated under the Black Sea coast resort sun in Soviet times, and today's life of disabled miners was in a terrible dream. And the fat cats of the oligarchs quietly observe the suffering of millions of pensioners and disabled persons, deciding successfully on the work of the International Monetary Fund for the Eradication of the Poor. And whatever laws are well written, but if they are not fulfilled, sin is the price of such legislators, and even more so of today's authorities." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u82	Thank you. Please, Hellcat, one minute. Turn on the Pecklusenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u83	We are discussing a very important law today, and I share the concern of my countryman, Dryhog, for real what a disabled person is. A disabled person is a man like you and me, only better. Better. Better why. Because he doesn't just go to work every day, he goes to work. In this regard, we majors have not less than 20 per cent of the voters who come to us at our receptions, especially with the problems of disabled persons, disabled children and disabled persons. We must therefore approach this law with due consideration. On the one hand, it is the absolute right of Comrade Suha to have a situation in which the disabled person is subjected to additional burdens, to choose between being expelled and accepting the conditions of the employer's game. At the same time, we know that people with disabilities are really people who are often offended when they are treated with prejudice. That is why I think that it is only with my consent that we should look at the Government's option before we approach this law with due consideration. I have a question for the Minister, if he refuses, he will be protected, disabled, if he refuses to accept these conditions?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u84	I think it's clear that if the minister's bill is written in the law, if we accept that only by consent, it is clear that it will be protected by law. Thank you. The question has been discussed. The decision will be made on the appropriate day of the vote. It's a 2405-11 registration issue. The draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Property Rights Objects Not Privatized reports by National Deputy Švidenko Mikolayovich, but I do. Then from the committee, please, Budjigan Philip Philipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u85	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy for the Management of National Households and Investments on June 10th of this year, I underline June 10th of this year the draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Objects of State Property Rights that Are Not Subject to Privatisation. Imported by the People's Deputies of the Desert Tenk, Speedenk and Shevchuk. The bill proposes to exclude property rights that are not subject to privatization from the list. But they can be corporate. Number two. Cremenchuc plant of iron concrete splints. The drafters base their proposal. the operations of managing the company's stock package from Mintrans, resulting in a decrease in production volume and a decrease in investment attractiveness. The committee supported the National Deputies' Bill of Deserts, Squidenko and Shevchuk and invites the Supreme Council to accept it as a basis. A similar decision was taken by the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has also supported this bill and believes that it can be accepted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. However, for the sake of objectivity, the following point must be made: A number of documents have been received by the committee after the decision has been taken. This bill is not supported by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In his opinion, the approval of the Poltava District Master Court, according to which the Wat Kremencucci plant of iron concrete blades was opened, did not comply with the provisions of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery of the Payability of the Debtor or the Recognition of It by Bankruptcy, which provided that the position of this law was applied to legal persons of enterprises that were subjects of State ownership law that were not subject to privatization in part of the rehabilitation or liquidation after being excluded from the list of such objects. In connection with this Mintrans, an appropriate submission to the judicial authorities is initiated. In addition, Kabmin concludes that the production of the Cremencucci plant of iron concrete sheaths makes it possible to successfully implement state-wide measures to modernize railway routes. The Special Privatization Supervisory Commission also proposes to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u86	Thank you, Philip Philipovich, sit down, please. Then, since this is a question directly related to another of our own committee of profiles and, more specifically, the Special Committee on Privatization, the word is given to Valentina Petrovni Seminyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u87	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! The Special Supervisory Commission at its two meetings discussed the issue of listing changes to the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights Objects that Are Not Privatized. In which we clearly identified the violations that were committed by the previous management of the plant. Where it is clearly pointed out that the object is a fictitiously bankrupt, with the object being an object that is vital to the work of the railway industry. In view of the documents received by the law enforcement commission for requests, directly to enterprises, to judicial organizations, the commission found that the object could not be excluded from the list of objects that were not subject to privatization. At the suggestion of the members of the commission, a request was made to the Attorney General's Office, where at the present time, the Attorney General's Office appears to be the third person to be brought before the court when a court order for the Cremencucci plant of iron concrete blades was brought before the court. We can't make a decision today to delete it as a matter of fact, says that the enterprise is in a fictitiously bankrupt with one goal -- to destroy the competitor in the external market, and then we'll drive the pins across the border. Therefore, the Special Supervisory Commission believes that today it is premature to consider the matter until the judicial authorities and the investigating authorities conclude on how the business is bankrupt.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u88	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna. Seven national deputies signed up for the performance. Are they insisting? Please, Karmazin, follow him Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u89	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! The question is extremely complex, despite the fact that the question seems to be raised in just one factory. And I am grateful to Valentina Petrovni Seminyuk for trying to stop lawlessness all the time. But, Valentino Petrovno, without the help of the Attorney General and without the government, you're asking these questions, you understand, you won't stop. And the good will of the government is not yet in order to preserve an effective structure in the state. And I'm going from this high rostrum to Georgia Mikolaiovich Kirpa, because in the explanatory note to this law, the authors of the law and the Desert Tenko, and the Swedeenko, who also had and were ministers of their time and transportation, and the prime minister was Desert Tenko, say that the low efficiency of managing a package of shares from the Ministry of Transport, which for many years does not provide modernisation of equipment that leads to a further decline in the production and investment attractiveness of the enterprise. I am addressing you, George Mikolaiovich Kirpa, knowing you as a good host, this is, I think, a topic for discussion at the College of the Ministry of Transport. This is, I think, a more serious question than what is being considered today at the Ministry of Transport, especially all of Ukraine, has been shaken by the information that the funds allocated today by the Ministry of Transport and the study of how to process a channel from the Baltic Sea to the Black Sea. I think we've been through this before. You remember when Visocki wrote, "There was time and running to the canals, and then where you should have fallen." So I ask you, read the Highlander, see how this ended in the history of our nation, how we destroyed Dnipro in totalitarian times, because you wanted to do better than we did in the flood of the earth. And that's why I think that this bill needs to be dealt with in a comprehensive manner with those draft laws that are now in the Supreme Council: on the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization of 2405-9 introduced by Gudima and Kostenek and others, and by Horbatov. That is, to include and merge these bills so that we can look at the business in a comprehensive way. In fact, bankruptcy should be brought before the Henprosecutor’s Office, there is such an article in the Criminal Code and a criminal case. And from the Ministry of Transport, I'm just waiting for effective action to be taken to guide this body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u90	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. You probably said Dnipro because he's leaking through the Cremenchug. The word has been given to the people’s representative of Puzakov. Nigga, will you be performing? Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u91	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. Privatization has no limits to date. I don't think there are any facilities that aren't privatized anymore. And if there's an object left, they're going to make it bankrupt and sell it from a hammer. Privatists don't doze, they try to cover another piece of the privatization pie on time. In the city of Kirovograd, for example, the heat power plant and the water canal remained such a pie. And the heat power plants have already worked well, even promised to pay on time, but they haven't told us where to take it. But the Chirograds already know what a privatized skyline is. We sit very often without light and no water, and the city sinks into the darkness of the night. One of the reasons for the privatization of the water channel is that the city's power is motivated by the need for investments to be made in the acquisition of equipment for water preparation and treatment. And if an investor comes, he will be interested in investing in the renewal of the core funds and the development of his business. In addition, the Authority assures that the new shareholder will not be able to influence strategic decisions that concern, for example, the exclusion of industrial enterprises or residential debt stocks, and that the price of Kirovogradocanal services will not increase. It's all fairy tales. We have been able to see this on many occasions in privatized enterprises, because only the capitalist is driven by profits. Therefore, he will not invest any extra money in the development of the enterprise, but he will exploit what he has. As long as it's possible. And once it's all gone, the enterprises will give it back to the State. Then let the State recover at the expense of the taxpayer. This is how officials earn their living, and only the simple workers on the food rations at which they were built are left. In addition, we have not only in the area but also in Ukraine where an investor would not dictate his terms. It's the principle: who pays, who orders music. It is clear that no investor would want his enterprise to work for debtors and that if a separate enterprise or housing would need to be dismembered in order to be able to disengage from debt, this would be done. Thus, if the Kirovogradovadocanal is privatized, it should be prepared to disengage the debtors, and there will be many, as far as it is not possible to live with the current wages otherwise. In short, privatization will also affect the city as a whole, and each resident individually, as high-ranking officials can see more about their own purse than just a working man's purse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u92	Thank you. Please have the Black people's deputy prepare for Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u93	Vladimir Cherniak. The faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues! The classic scheme for the theft of state property in Ukraine is to drive state-owned enterprises into artificial bankruptcy. And privatization for nothing. Generally speaking, privatization in Ukraine is ineffective, scandalous and criminal. The idea of privatization in Ukraine is discredited, and I have to admit it as one of the apologists and advocates of privatization. But it may not be possible to stop the train, it is necessary to move privatization into the legislative process, and there is a need for control, including parliamentary control of privatization, public control. In particular, I am also a member of the Economic Policy Committee, a member of the Supreme Council's Supervisory Board on Privatisation. At each meeting, we discuss a scandalous, criminal issue. At each meeting, we have representatives of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and we do this all the time. Now they're asking me from the hall to help or not? I wouldn't say that it's very helpful, usually our decisions aren't being implemented, we're ignoring the progress we've made in this, but I wouldn't overemphasize them. But we're trying to control, react, engage in this service, special organs, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the courts. Now specifically on the question of the Cremencucci plant of iron concrete splinters. It's using roughly the same pattern that I was talking about, the classic scheme. Unfortunately, the Committee on Economic Policy supported the issue of exclusion from the list of non-privatization enterprises. But what can be said of the committee’s justification. What the committee didn't know at the time was that the investigation was going on. All of these documents about the situation were not on the committee. So the committee's decision was taken before that. Now we know that the criminal situation is ongoing. So in this situation, of course, we cannot support the committee's decision to exclude the Cremencucci plant from the list of enterprises that are not subject to privatization. You have to leave it on this list, do follow-up, establish what is said to be true. After that, we need to think about how to move on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u94	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy Gabrieluk. And we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u95	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, today we are asked to exclude from the list of facilities that are prohibited from privatizing, the Cremenchug plant of ferrobet spas. Since this facility is located in the territory of my constituency, I would like to inform my colleagues, the people's deputies, of the situation surrounding this plant. Thus, in August 2001, the enterprise was corporateized according to Mintrans'orders. Soon, the Cremenczuk plant CREENCHUK was founded with other enterprises by another company, Cremenczuk factory ZBS-2. It was found to be in violation of the law and the case of the Attorney General's Office in court that the Kremenchug Kremenchug factory 2 was brought to an end. However, the process of elimination has been artificially delayed, and I want to focus on that. And for today, there are two legal entities in the plant. The illegal Kremenchug Kremenchug Kremenchug factory and the Kremenchug Kremenchug plant. The one who is now state-owned and controlled by Mintrans. Both are not working. That is a very significant result for people today. But further to the decision of the Economic Court of 5 December 2002 in the Poltaw region, a procedure for the rehabilitation of the factory in the bankruptcy case is open, which is now proposed to be deleted from the list of facilities. There are questions of mass and Mintrans why more serious action is indeed not being taken. Who in the world would benefit from that today? I have questions and the approach of my fellow deputies today who are formally approachable in their statements and say that there are such difficulties, there is gang privatization. Dear colleagues, there is nothing to privatize today. They've been looted for over a year and a half while these courts are in session. And today, there is a catastrophic situation in this company. I met with these groups regularly. There is no way to break through this deaf wall of bureaucracy in our country. And that's really what the whole group is behind. It is a budgetary establishment in the city of Kremenchug. And today it is not possible to exclude it from the “A list of objects that are not subject to privatization”. That's when you can put a cross on this company. I impeccably ask you all, let's not support such a decision, such a bill. We will, however, first of all, be guided by the interests of the people of the State. Only in this case can the situation change with you on a particular enterprise, and the following, Valentin Petrovna, a great request, draw deputies from the specific districts where such activities are located. I'm sorry you didn't invite me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u96	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Question completed. We'll decide on the day of the vote. True, we had a mistrial. Because none of the speakers, no one supported the bill, they were all against it. The question is, Registration number 3553 — draft law on agricultural advisory activities. National MP Mikhailo Vasilovich Zubec will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u97	Dear National Deputies! Since the first submission to the Supreme Council of the agricultural advisory bill, nearly a year and a half have passed. During this period of time, the project was repeatedly discussed both in the sessional committee and in the sessional room. At some point in the course of the government bill, when it became clear that he was not being accepted by the MPs, we were informed by the MP's version of the agrarian advisory service. In the end, after a long debate, two options were combined into one that you are offered today for consideration by a group of national MPs: Ivan Tomić and Roman Tkača are the faction of "Our Ukraine", Michael Gladys and Alexander Shevchenk, the faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine and Mikola Melnika, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. It should be noted that this bill is different from the previous one, both by volume and by quality. This has certainly helped to take into account the critical comments and suggestions that have come from many departments and from the Scientific and Scientific Administration of the Supreme Council. The need to adopt such a law is due to a number of reasons. First. We are well aware that the creation and formation of agricultural advisory services that provide increased knowledge and practical skills for peasants have been given and given great attention to the governments of all the highly developed countries of the world. And that's understandable. Because human capital development and public investment in its formation are now the most important strategic direction of government funding to ensure economic growth. So I would like to point out that in all countries it is being implemented at the expense of the State budget in many countries that it has still been preserved. The funding of advisory services is seen as one of the directions of government subsidies to agriculture. The other one. The creation of a network of advisory services under the Ukrainian Law on Promoting Agricultural Development 2001-2004 is recognized as an important priority for the development of the agricultural sector. Third. There is an urgent need at the legislative level to regulate the advisory work that is now being carried out actively in individual regions of Ukraine at the regional and regional levels. In fact, what's happening in this direction is not yet providing open and free access to advisory services and scientific and practical development for peasants. And this work needs to be continued not only at the district and regional levels, but to my deep conviction, to start working with the rural communities and in rural settlements, which we have more than 30,000. And the fourth. This law is needed not only by peasants and farmers but also by scientists, responsible workers of local government and government authorities, and even by city dwellers working in gardening and gardening. Because the information and legal vacuum that has formed in the agricultural sector in recent years has increased already negative agricultural trends. We understand that this bill needs further development and further expansion, first of all in my opinion, in the context of increasing the role and importance of agrarian science in the development of advice. Given the overall positive generalization conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, please support the proposed bill in the first reading. In preparing the bill for the second reading, I think we'll take into account your statements, your honourable colleagues, your comments and your suggestions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u98	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich, please sit down. I'd like to speak with the People's Deputy Kalinchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u99	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations has carefully considered the bill presented and confirms that two bills have been tabled for consideration by the Supreme Council and we have not found support at that time. At present, a single bill has been drafted. The bill lays down the legal principles for implementing Ukraine’s agricultural advisory activities and regulates relations in this area. The tasks of advisory services are mainly of an advisory and informational nature. As Mikhail Vasilovich has already said, the draft law provides for the provision of socio-essential counselling services, which are unprofitable and cannot be found in the agricultural advisory market. But they are effective for the implementation of state agrarian policies within the framework of national interests. In addition to what Mikhailo Vasilovich said, which is financed by the state budget, it is envisaged that paid advisory services will be provided that create conditions for additional income for agricultural producers and the rural population and are made at the expense of the customer. With a view to a collegiate solution to issues related to the transparency of government regulation of agricultural advisory activities, an increase in the professional level of agricultural advisory activities, the issuance of agricultural advisory activities for certificates, their cancellation, a supervisory council on agricultural advisory activities is established. That is, the Supervisory Board will make appropriate decisions and make appropriate proposals for projects. The Committee believes that the introduction of agricultural advisers and advisory services in the event of availability and appropriate funding will enhance the knowledge of the agricultural population and agricultural producers in the field of modern farming methods and technologies. At the same time, the committee noted some negative phenomena. For example, the committee foresees a complex system of agricultural advisory services in comparison with other areas of agricultural activity. Considering that agricultural advisory activities under status are no different from other economic activities. Such a system of their creation and registration needs to be clarified as we see it. There are some other comments for other articles of the bill. At the same time, the committee proposes that the bill be adopted in the first reading and processed for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u100	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Seven national deputies were enrolled in the talk on the subject. The word is Carmazin. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u101	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! That's my question. DO YOU think it's worth building a city, and then we'll decide how to build it, along or across the river? I'm asking this question so simply because I don't understand. 3,000 laws that are in Ukraine's legal field today are many or few? And what do we do, the legislature? We're going to make it all the time. new laws or we need to ensure that the legal field of the state is transparent, reasonable and for everyone who understands the legislative rules that govern all social relations that are in our society. As a result, I must say that the current representative of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations has been very literate about the shortcomings, but in my opinion, it is very soft on the shortcomings that exist in the bill. And as a lawyer, I want to say that agricultural advisory activities are completely different from other types and no fundamental differences, other types of farming related to the provision of advisory services. Look, when we refer today to the agricultural promotion law for 2001-2004, we saw how the government was doing it yesterday when the changes in lending and the lending mechanism that was envisaged yesterday stood for the minister of so-called agrarian policy and said: you don't have to comply with the requirements of the law. But he hasn't done it in three years, well, he could be responsible for it, he hasn't been in two years. And there's the results: the work in the village is done. There had to be regulation, then the rules of the law should be followed. And now, the law only says: promoting the development of a network of agricultural advisory services, i.e. stimulating what is needed. Therefore, I believe that regulation of the legal relationship of the organisation of agricultural activities, advisory activities, does not require a separate legislative definition. To date, enough laws can be governed by the Law on the Purchase of Goods, Works, and Services for State Funds, which are generally legal, economic, and procurement procedures and advisory activities. Thank you for your attention. I think this law needs to be re-readed, combined with others, complemented, because because.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u102	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Puzakov, to prepare for Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u103	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The Law on Agricultural Counselling is always back to work. This is a testimony that his position is blindly transferred from Europe to our imperfect agricultural management. And as practice has shown, all the advisory centers that operate or will be created are far from solving the problems of farmers and, above all, will not be responsible for the consequences. Let's say there's an advisory center in Kirovograd. And only the client crossed the threshold, paid, and no, good-bye. And there was no pay for the services. So, for example, the typical status of the company has to be paid up to 500 dollars. They took the money, and there, as they say, the wolf eats the food. Therefore, to invent a bicycle and attach such importance to that service is not worth the price for today. These functions can be more successful, and free of charge, employees of all levels of the Minagropolitics, who, as civil servants, are responsible for the state of affairs in the agricultural sector. And for that, I think they need a little state support. First, to improve the structure of the Ministry of Agriculture. I'm talking about creating a centralized vertical at the top of this government office. It should be done in such a way as veterinary service, land, quarantine, and others. This would allow for a clearer and more purposeful conduct of food policy in the state. Today, unfortunately, this is the only state agricultural service that has no clear vertical structure that was in the Ministry of Agriculture in Soviet times. And secondly, create normal conditions for field and district officials to perform their duties. What does that mean? First of all, provide them with means of communication and transportation. It's not a secret that today, because of the lack of funds, the district manager can't use an interdisciplinary line, there's no way to go to district management, I'm not talking about other employees anymore. Taking into account the foregoing, this will allow for the provision of all services and advice at the national level. In agriculture, it is also possible to create self-sustainment and other necessary services — legal, auditory, and so forth, which may not work at the expense of the budget, but at the expense of the services to earn their maintenance. Such calculating units worked successfully in Soviet times. And everyone knows very well that the problem of food grain in the country was not standing at the time. And I would like to mention the words of the Great Cobzar: "Teach better, but do not turn away from your own." And this Soviet experience, which is recognized throughout the world, needs to be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u104	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy of Cherniak. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u105	Dear colleagues! Negative agricultural trends make it necessary to rely more and more on agricultural science. In this regard, there is a need for certain services to provide these services, such services to be provided in Ukraine, and they exist in many parts of the world. In this regard, the drafters feel that agrarian counseling should be regulated at the legislative level. Ensure the access of peasants to advisory services, ensure transparency in the activities of these services, and ensure that professionalism is properly ensured. And of course, the big question that's being addressed in the bill is the financing of advisory services, both from the budget and from the payment of advisory services. I agree with the profile committee's conclusion that we need to simplify the system of creating and registering advisory services because they are virtually no different from the other services that provide services. The main question that raises doubts is the question that is discussed and referred to by Deputy Carmazin. The question is whether special legislation is needed regarding agricultural advisory services. I think it's a question of debate, I wouldn't make it clear to deny and argue, I agree that you can bring such services under the heading of advisory services and that you don't think a special law is necessary. On the other hand, emphasis can be placed on the specificity and relevance of such services in today’s conditions. And to develop a special law, as it is now done. I don't want to be categorical, but if the law is in place, I don't think it's going to hurt. If it wasn't there, I think we could probably do without it, focus on this issue where it's about providing advisory services. But in view of the fact that the law has been prepared, it has already taken certain steps and is not harmful, but it regulates more specifically and objectively the provision of advice to farmers. So I think you could accept it in the first reading and make adjustments and suggestions to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u106	Thank you. The word has been given to the national deputy of Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u107	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The introduction of agricultural advisers and advisory services in the event of appropriate funding will enhance the knowledge of the rural population and agricultural producers in the field of modern farming methods and techniques. Yet we do have a number of observations. First. The bill provides for the division of agricultural advisory services into social services and salaries. The first is suggested to define how services that are not profitable at this time in socio-economic relations cannot be found in the agricultural advisory services market, but they are effective for the implementation of state agricultural policy within the framework of public interests. Others, such as those that create the conditions for obtaining additional income from agricultural producers to the rural population. From our point of view, it was more appropriate to have agricultural advisory services distributed free of charge and free of charge. Because first of all, all services, given the availability of demand, are socially necessary. And secondly, so-called social-necessary services, according to the bill, are envisaged to be provided on a free basis. Some of the misunderstandings seem to be the criteria for putting advisory services in the social category. These, or services, cannot be found in the agricultural advisory market. First, the introduction of agricultural advisory activities means nothing more than the creation of a certain segment of the market, which is an integral element of the supply of services by the market's entities. So agricultural advisers, including services, are socially needed. It's different. The explanatory note to the bill contains a very real, widespread and generally simple list of socio-needed advisory services that determine the cost of each. This is, in particular, a consultation on going to the farm, consulting in the office, developing a business plan, and so on. It's a question. What reasons are there for referring these services to a category that cannot be found in the market? Third. In sharing the opinion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, we focus on the purpose of detailing and listing rural advisory services in the cuts of their species, at least making them generally classified by subject, for example, by dividing them into legal, economic, agrotechnological, social, environmental, marketing and so on. Four. The bill stipulates that the procedure for the formation and use of the agricultural advisory fund is established by the All-Ukrainian Professional Social Organization, which. agricultural advisors. From our point of view, all matters relating to the agricultural advisory insurance fund should be dealt with in clear compliance with the Ukrainian Insurance Act as the basis in this area. The faction of Ukraine's social-democratic party believes that the bill deserves support and can be based on the comments and suggestions made. [[united]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u108	Thank you. Masenko's already asking. Turn on the microphone. Turn on Masenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u109	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Deputies! I'd like to pay attention, because there's always no time for a speech like a very short-term program for me, but I'd like to pay attention to who's going to give advice to the villagers. It is not to be understood that some foolish people live in the countryside or that they do not understand what they are doing in agriculture. They're smarter than those who have made these reforms, who have ruined agriculture and are now trying to advise them. You don't have to do this. We need to support the village, and then we need to advise. And how the law is being built. Just look at it and read it carefully. Where there is free budget advice on reform. And where it comes from improving agricultural production, it's where we have to pay for these services. So it's a targeted policy from someone's supply that's being conducted free of charge to break up so that these reforms don't take place. And where agricultural production really is fixed, there's more to be paid for. I'm gonna say it again. Those who have committed a crime in front of the village, those who have voted in the office for the Code of Earth and for all the laws that are in place for the reform of agricultural production, do not yet take sin upon your soul, and do not apply these laws to those holes that you have created in the village. If you want to help the village and you know how to do it, go from Kiev to the village, I'll point that out again, and show you how to do it. No, so help the real village, not the advice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We will be appointed on the day of the vote. And we have one more question left. Registration number 3107-D draft decree approving the State Innovation Programme for the Fashion Industry by 2010. That's what happened to no one. So let's, if you don't mind, I'll inform you that this is a bill and we'll discuss it so that we can put it out on the day of the vote. The bill was prepared by the National MP Pavlovski. The project of the programme is intended to approve the National Programme for the Development of Pre-Court Art and Decorative Cosmetics by 2010 and to recognize this bill in accordance with the Kiev National University of Culture and Arts as a basic higher education institution for the preparation, retraining and enhancement of the qualifications of the professionals of the Peruvian arts and decorative arts, as well as the introduction of an effective legal framework in accordance with this programme. Development, as noted in the relevant and decision-making committee on science-related issues, and in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority for the development of the sector and the training of highly qualified professionals in this field will allow Ukraine to take one of the leading places in Europe in this important development society, will allow a substantial state budget to be filled. After all, the demand for both decorative cosmetics and proper hairdressing is enormous in all parts of the world. The Special Committee recommends that you and I approve such a program. Six national deputies were enrolled in the presentation. Not all of them are in the hall, but there is a part. As always, the first word is Carmazin. Prepare as always, Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u111	Thank you, I'm not always the first. Yury Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. But you can see how many of us are in the hall today, so, Adam Ivanovich, that's why I'm happy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u112	There are 374 national deputies registered in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u113	Yes, three hundred with an extra man in the room today, and twenty men in the hall today, it's for our voters to know how our people work. But it's better that they don't know about it. I hope that other deputies have more serious matters. I've got more serious things to do than discuss drafts. Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed that Adam Ivanovich actually reported instead of those who were supposed to report a serious project on the approval of the State Innovation Program for the Fashion Industry by 2010. I'd like to take a little tour, a little story, which, this project is 3107. And so the first project under this issue appeared registered under this title, "On the Approval of the Programme for the Development of Vocational Education in Peruquerian Art and Decorative Cosmetics. The first was the document. Then came a document of the national programme for the development of the Peruvian arts and decorative cosmetics, and a document developed for the innovation of the fashion industry by 2010. And that was another one, and that was the last document in that direction. So I'd like to say again, ladies and gentlemen, whether we should build such a house, or whether it's worth building a city like this, when the state program is essentially something very important, which is meant to be approved by the law of Ukraine, which is important to the entire people of Ukraine, which is the national and national meaning. Does this vector have an innovation agenda for the language industry by 2010 for Ukraine? Well, you probably see the irony in me that it doesn't. Therefore, in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on State Forecasting and Development of Ukraine's Economic and Social Development Programme, I believe that this draft regulation does not comply with the relevant law because the Supreme Council only approves the state-wide economic and social development programmes of Ukraine. In view of the fact that this Program is not state-owned, it does not need approval by the Supreme Council in accordance with the law I have specified, or maybe if there is a level of government, it will only be approved by a government decision, but I do not yet see that it is going to this level. It's just a sector, it's very narrow and very specific, although, of course, for professionals, it's an interesting program. I'm against squandering the state's legislative field with unnecessary documents. And I urge you to do that all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u114	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, but we have to do the hairstyles, so. Please, National MP Puzakov, prepare for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u115	Vladimir Puzakov. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The city of Kirov. We're all present and absent in the hall, and we understand that the revival and further development of national culture, the provision of socio-cultural services by highly qualified professionals is essential today. And that's why this program provides for an upgrade to vocational education, which is supposed to be the basis for training specialists in new socio-economic conditions. Of course, the growth rate of the industry is increasing with each year, which makes it necessary to rethink models and to improve the quality of the preparation and retraining of hairstyles. But let us not fool ourselves, somehow awkward at that age, why should we today talk about such high materials in the wig business. I have one question for the authors of this bill, how do you think you're going to prepare high-class hairdressers? Is the material base ready for you? And that's what this skill is all about. I'd like you, Your Honor, to go to Kirovgrad School and check the availability and readiness of hairdressers and ask the listener, and how much do you care about schooling? With this school base, it would be better to close this school at all and not pay thousands of money for schooling. The program plans to increase the number of beauty salons and hairdressers that will be created by foreign firms with local entrepreneurs, so that in Kiev it can be there and all the costs will be directed to execute this program. What's going to be on the rails? That's one thing, and the other for the new prescurantes, who's going to be visiting those salons. Of course, it's not the person who's outside the poverty line. And thirdly, will the school graduates be provided with jobs? That's not what the program's about. We are well aware and aware that, at present, there is no State-level control over the quality of the professional training of specialists in the field, and that there is no single registration base for businesses that are engaged in the field of Peruvian art. No tariff and qualification characteristics, no need for experts in the field of wigry and other problems. These and a number of other problems should be at the forefront of this State Program. I agree that every year the number of hairdressers increases, but I would like to ask if they are all suitable for this room. Would you like to know, respected authors, the working conditions of a hairdresser, his earnings? Do you know how this barber lives? So that's what this program needs to predict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u116	Thank you. The word has been given to the National Deputy of School, to prepare for Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u117	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. You know, we've already been told about the testimony of our legislative field, and somehow we don't want to repeat ourselves, because it's really surprising that through the Supreme Council, as a bill, we're proposing a program and an innovative one. It's not just a task of the government, it's a task of a separate ministry and a separate department of the government. No, we're all aware, but why did this program come here? And, normally, there was a lot to say here that hair culture increases the culture of the population in general, these stories are known, but in fact, when the notion of culture has become an imperial concept. So what you can't get into these circumstances in the villages at all, because the village is now without any practical means of bringing culture. And I am convinced that no barbershop in the village will be built under this program. And no cultural center in the village will open. Now go to the villages and see what happens to former cultural buildings, what happens to former readings, what happens to former libraries, what happens to all cultural institutions. Schools barely survive. Now really the only center of culture is the church, if it's in this village. Hence, there is no need to talk about the problems of the first need. There's a good program, everything's fine, but it would have to be recommended to the government to develop it, to adopt it at the Kabmin meeting, to inform the Supreme Council about the execution, and then we all had the opportunity to get a nice haircut, to look good, and from that, Ukraine would be extremely happy. To talk about what is literally waiting on the borders of Ukraine by foreign experts to dump here and discover a lot of hairdressers and stuff them with their experts, you don't have to leave a Ukrainian hairdresser out of work. You don't have to protect yourself because of this program. But it's just a naive attempt to run through a higher legislature a thing that, in principle, would have no place as a proposal. It's out of respect for the initiator and this narrow, little document gets here. Not by volume, but by meaning, by meaning, and by meaning, including. That is why I call upon all: and the hearers, those who listen to the Supreme Council by radio, and the presence in the audience. Just understand that we are pleased to learn that such a program is, and with no less pleasure, we will look to the initiator to work with the Cabinet of Ministers and to have the Cabinet of Ministers take up this program. So I think that voting in the room is going to be a vote for the Cabinet of Ministers to take care of these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u118	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy of Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u119	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I understood the irony with which my predecessors on this rostrum spoke about the state's innovation agenda for the fashion industry. Indeed, this may be the most pressing problem for Ukraine. But at the same time, I want to point out the following. Both parliament and the government have announced the task of moving to Ukraine to an innovative development model. And that's exactly what this program is all about. Of course, in the economy it is difficult to do this, it takes effort, it takes time, it takes money. Maybe we can at least do this in a fashion? Maybe let's really start with fashion, like a pilot program, and then with this experience, we can use it in the economy and in the social sphere. This program focuses on upgrading vocational education, improving the quality of personnel training, professional personnel, especially hairdressers, hairdressers, beauty salons, and hairdressers. You can also smile about it, but that is, among other things, where Ukraine has succeeded. Our hairdressers at international competitions take first place, and we have the opportunity to surprise the world with wigry art. We surprised him with many negative things. And if we have the opportunity to surprise him with a positive outcome, why not work in this direction? I am convinced that Ukrainians should have the most beautiful hairstyles in the world. They'll come from abroad, they'll look at our people, they'll tell us they're poor, and we're looking, they all have such beautiful hairstyles. It's also really raising the mood, and that's the cultural element that the deputy at school was talking about. Maybe we'll come to culture in this way, if we don't have enough money to develop culture in the narrow sense of that word, then the culture of hairstyles, the culture of beauty, the culture of fashion, and by the way, our beauties also occupy the right places at international competitions. We have many high - fashion craftsmen in Ukraine. So I wouldn't necessarily be negative about this program. At the same time, I agree with Deputy Carmazin on what this program is like. Whether it's a government program or a branch. It's a branch, after all. Maybe it was an attempt to raise the issue to a state level and raise the status of the program to state status. Perhaps that was the idea of those who prepared the program and who brought it into our hall. Of course, it was possible for the Ministry to do so, as the school deputy said, not us. But since this program has fallen into the session room and we are already discussing it, I don't think there will be any code from the fact that Parliament will support it as a sectoral programme and will assign it to the Ministry responsible to work effectively in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u120	Vladimir Kirilovich, I've heard so much from you that you can see that I've missed Parliament. Please turn on the Vashtuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! When we talk about the State Innovation Programme for the Fashion Industry by 2010, it's not just a hairstyle. And when we talk about the state programme, it should include, first and foremost, the development of the light industry in Ukraine, which is actually very difficult today. We're in markets today buying what's sewn in other countries -- Turkey, somewhere else -- and our sewing machines are just starting to stop. I think that this program should first include the rebirth of our light industry, starting with textiles, ending with sewing, triangular and so on. Second shade. The fashion industry can't be reduced to one peruquerial art. It's a work of many ways. And I think it's impossible to claim this motion for a determination with such a loud name as the “State Programme for the Development of the Fashion Industry”. It needs to be clearly worked out in order for it to be a national program. It just lobbies out one direction and I think that the national MPs, we have to think about the level of preparation of documents in the Supreme Council. And if it's a program, it's supposed to fit the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u122	Thank you. Although I thought, frankly, Catherine Timothy, that you would protect yourself as a representative of a beautiful sex, that is the kind of program. Please turn on the microphone of the Shulga MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u123	Dear national deputies, distinguished Adam Ivanovich. Indeed, the question raised for Parliament's discussion, for Parliament's discussion, for Parliament's discussion, for the question, was put before the national MPs and would not want to offend the authors, but let's take this seriously. We spend so much time on things that can be considered not even in the Cabinet of Ministers. And there's a dangerous trend behind this. A trend in the humiliation of parliamentary authority. We have to respond to such things. Otherwise, we will find ourselves in such a situation when the worst antiparliamentary articles are confirmed. There are some people here who don't understand why they came here. This undermines the authority of the legislative body. In order to address these issues, there are many opportunities for us, in the public authorities. And also, notice, we're looking at this issue when the press was protecting the second hand a week ago, when 95 percent of the population is not fashion-oriented, they'd love to know, and they're happy not to take the second hand away from them. So I don't think any of these projects should go into the hall, and they should still be blocked at the level of the conciliatory board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u124	Please, from the Rodion Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u125	Communist faction, Rodionov. Dear comrades, I would like to draw attention to the statement, all of course in my right, but one aspect is that the document is allegedly poorly prepared. I'll give you the numbers that will tell you whether or not it can be prepared hard. This year, in 2004, 0.9 per cent is allocated to culture, it's for the whole culture, not just fashion, 0.9 per cent of the budget! In comparison, so much is allocated to the army in Austria. But because Austria doesn't need an army. What kind of culture can we talk about? That's the first one. Second. The fact that the authors have submitted this bill and that we have been discussing it for a long time is just saying that it is timely. Third moment. That's what the fashion industry is called. I would like to emphasize that in all countries this is a fairly high financial area where finance is spinning. In the third, but perhaps even though people didn't live in fashion, it was always the share of people, even in the Supreme Council. Look at the clothing of the members of the Supreme Council. They're trying to dress well. And the last. The culture of Soviet people was very high. And many, while abroad, have always paid attention to how well we dress, how much we try to be well - dressed in all organizations. Why do we now believe that there are many shortcomings, but we must take into account the observation and still bring this project forward, discuss and fashion, as they say, for any human being, for each of their own, but it must be. Even so, it's a fashion industry. We have to start moving to the best. And with regard to our standard of living, here's an example for you that the State has decided to put a cross on the culture at all, because no means are allocated.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u126	Question completed. We will be appointed on the day of the vote. Let us now consider the next last question. Different. Please, the word should be John the Rabbit, but I don't see him at all. Yes. Hare, please, to the rostrum. Yes, please, Storm to prepare Karmazin. Shurma, please show me the list on the board.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u127	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! The Supreme Council of Ukraine is looking at a draft of the Ukrainian Act on the Ratification of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol to it is a global initiative for the transition of humanity to a rational consumption of the planet's natural resources and environmentally balanced development, as well as the response of the global community to the threat of global warming on our planet. The main objective of the protocol is to provide a basis for joint action to prevent global global warming on a planet-wide scale by reducing or limiting greenhouse gas emissions. The need to address global warming is caused by a sharp increase in greenhouse gas emissions that have led to a natural imbalance. The result may be an increase in the average annual temperature over the course of this century by 2.5 degrees. This, in turn, will result in a change in the circulation of air masses when precipitation is distributed, catastrophic floods, droughts, and other natural phenomena that affect us. The Kyoto Protocol is the first international agreement to provide market mechanisms for international cooperation to solve global environmental problems. They are based on the recognition that the manifestations and effects of climate change do not depend on the location of greenhouse gas emissions, and the overall cost of reducing these emissions can be minimised by actions at the global level. Today, the Kyoto Protocol has been ratified or joined by 119 countries. Ukraine signed the protocol as early as March 1999. Countries have undertaken to protect the climate system for the benefit of modern and future generations on the basis of the justice of the common but differentiated responsibility and the opportunities they have. The Protocol identifies three basic mechanisms that are extremely important for Ukraine. Joint implementation of clean technologies and trade in greenhouse gas emissions quotas. It should be noted in particular that the participation of the parties to the protocol and the implementation of its mechanisms is voluntary. The mechanisms involved in implementing the Kyoto Protocol create a new segment of the world market aimed at globally balanced environmental impact reduction. Ukraine will gain practical market experience by participating in this international market, which will facilitate the introduction of economic mechanisms to protect the environment. Ratification by Ukraine of the Kyoto Protocol will help boost the international image of our nation, demonstrate our goodwill for joint action to preserve the environment, develop its economy on the basis of clean production, energy and resource conservation, and prepare for market transformation. The ratification of the Kyoto Protocol by Ukraine testifies to the consistency of state policy not only because of national interests in preserving the environment for present and future generations but also because of the global processes in which Ukraine is actively involved. According to previous estimates of one year’s delay, Ukraine may lose the ability to obtain about $1.5 billion in external investment. Ukraine cannot delay its decision to ratify the Kyoto Protocol, since time lost cannot be reached. The faction of SDPU(o) encourages you to support the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol and to facilitate its implementation in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u128	Thank you. The word has the national deputy Karmazin, to prepare for the Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u129	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! I have repeatedly pointed out that one of the state’s woes today is that current laws are not being implemented, and the cost of restructuring the coal sector is not being determined. And it's not just in Donetsk, it's not just in Dnipropetrovsk, it's not just in the Lugansk region. Now let me give you an example of what was done and done in Kirovgrad. I have repeatedly questioned the responsibility of the former Head of the Provincial Regional Authority, and now the Deputy Minister of Industrial Policy - Powerful - in the use of the funds allocated to the restructuring of the creation of additional jobs in connection with the closure of the coal mine "Novomirgrodska" and the involvement of those responsible. And the point is that at the initiative of the former head of the Powerful on the ground, a commercial structure of the Agro-industry company was created. The same head to the Ministry of Finance. The company was recommended as a cost manager for restructuring and creating additional jobs in connection with the closure of the Novomirgorodska Coal Mine. For the purpose of this project, the State has allocated 1 million 305,000 130 dollars. And where do you think they're going? Agricultural technology was purchased, but part of the technology did not yield, and it was handed over to foreign individuals and businesses, including Roman the Strong’s son, the Strong One’s own son. Moreover, out of the 57 people admitted to the company under contract, 30 persons did not work for a single day at the company Shahta Novomirgorodska. A total of EUR 674,000,600 is used for their employment without the permission of the bourgeois complex. I'm addressing the Attorney General. Please provide an order in this regard. There's got to be a criminal case. I'm talking to the head of government, Yanukovich. So let's stop putting the money into restructuring, or I can see that restructuring, which is going to be 4 billion dollars, is going to lead to that. I would also like to draw attention to what is being done in the Odessa region of Ishmael. where there's an Etalon factory, which is also a major damage. Moreover, the state’s assets, which were unlawfully removed and implemented, were part of the mobilization reserve, which, according to current legislation, is strictly prohibited from being alienated. And the point is that this was done by the State Tax Administration. Disposal of property is realized at significantly underpriced prices and by individuals allegedly because of the auction, and in fact because of the breach. And so 83 machines and so on are being implemented. I also refer to the head of the State Tax Administration to give instructions to places to stop production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u130	Thank you. The National MP, Cherniak, is passing on his speaking time to the Hare. Please, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u131	Honorable National Deputies and Citizens of Ukraine! In my presentation, I would like to draw your attention to the problems of small and medium - size business, which today is based on the physical persons of business subjects. In any democratic state, the government will support small and medium-sized businesses in every way because it understands its potential importance for the consolidation of democracy and the development of the country's economy. In our country, it would seem that the authorities should further promote small and medium-sized businesses. Because people who are busy in this area have essentially solved the problem of jobs for themselves and many others. And these people all over Ukraine are millions. Their work is very difficult. But they do not complain about life because they believe in their power. They are people who are entrepreneurial and active. It is these people who form the so-called medium class of society, which is to a large extent the support of democracy. But the ruling regime of our country is essentially fighting small and medium-sized businesses. I understand the motives for this activity of the governing authority, since the ruler of Ukraine is oligarchy, corrupt, antinational. Each day, it takes on more and more signs of authoritarian authority, or authority, that seeks to subdue the entire society and, above all, the people who manage it. For such authority, small and medium - sized entrepreneurs are a threat. They can't be tamed. Unlike the oligarchs who stole their people to the thread, all that entrepreneurs have is hard work. But me and my party, the Ukrainian People's Party, will never accept the policy of power to destroy small and medium-sized businesses. We will protect private entrepreneurs, their right to normal business conditions. Recently, I had to meet entrepreneurs from small and medium-sized businesses in the town of Czerkaskie Region and the town of Vistula Cherniewec Region. These entrepreneurs are separated by hundreds of miles. But all of them are equally ringing the bell about the merciless conditions of the business. I will give you just a few examples that show that the government and the ruling parliamentary majority are putting pressure on small and medium - size business, introducing new fights to fill the pockets of money thieves. First. A completely discriminatory policy for natural persons in entrepreneurial activities is tariff policy in the area of electricity pay. If the price of one kilowatt/hour per energy plant is 13.4 kp, the Cherkaske oblenerge releases electricity to entrepreneurs from Christianism at 30.7 kpc per kilowatt/hour. Where'd you get these crazy spikes? At the same time, the population tariff is set at 15.6 copies per kilowatt-hour, as among other things there are industrial enterprises such as sugar factories. So in the Supreme Sugar Plant, electricity is also released in one kilowatt-hour. What equality can be involved in such a situation? Where is the glorious electricity market? Clearly, the existing system of electricity tariffs is discriminatory with regard to natural persons. In addition, the rate for entrepreneurs changes monthly in terms of growth. Such a floating tariff does not allow an entrepreneur to predict the cost of production and service, which makes the introduction of a business ineffective. Equally discriminatory are the agreements imposed on entrepreneurs in this area. Under these agreements, electricity suppliers have unlimited rights and responsibilities have no responsibilities. Why is the Antimonopoly Committee silent in such a situation? Where are effective measures to protect entrepreneurs from the State Committee on Enterprise Development? The other one. The same discriminating approach to entrepreneurs is the cost-of-work policy for the development of a land project under commercial and commercial production points. In order to form an area of land, entrepreneurs of a Christian woman’s physical person have to lay down nearly a thousand bracelets. And there's more to the business from the Vision. And that's when you have to spend at least three and a half norm-hours to do geodetic work in a few hundred meters. So the actual cost of work is about 200 dollars per norm-hour. How could Minfin agree to such a price? Third. In order to install a phone, an entrepreneur has to pay a thousand dollars. For an ordinary citizen, these services will cost 200 or 300 dollars. Again, why do entrepreneurs pay 3.5 times more for the same job? Where is the equality of rights? Four. Special attention needs to be paid to the small business relationship with the fire department. To open a commercial kiosk, you need a permit from the fire department. Once again, we need to prepare a few thousand dollars for the company. Because we have to pay for the work of a variety of commercial structures that have been abandoned by the fire department. All these commercial structures use monopolistic positions and are very effective in raising funds from entrepreneurs under cover of firefighting. An entrepreneur is forced to go through school and pay for it in the legal order -- 40 or 60 bucks. Insuring property in a clearly defined insurance company, they are invited to use hand - to - hand signals, and they are recommended to subscribe to a newspaper or a magazine. And this so - called concern, it has no end and no end. As a result, the cost of their businesses and their precious time and health will be burned. And how much humiliation has to be tolerated! Fifth. Similarly, the pay for so - called medical care is discriminatory in relation to private entrepreneurs. For example, in order to obtain a permit to work in an air conditioning company, a worker has to spend at least the minimum wage. There has been a steady increase in the tariffs on jobs and services being done and provided at the expense of the institutions and institutions of the State Sanitation and Epidemiology Service. That's free medicine for you. In fact, no one wants to buy from small businesses. Efforts at administrative pressure on business entities are increasing. It has become a tradition to raise funds from entrepreneurs for the day of the city and to celebrate many other festivals. And those who refuse voluntary donations are blacklisted. Similarly, the press’s signature campaign does not bypass the business side. Entrepreneurs are required to volunteer for a regional newspaper, a newspaper, and a magazine. And that's a pleasure costing 60 or 70 bucks. As you can see, the government and the parliamentary majority have created ruthless conditions for small and small businesses. I urge the national deputies of the oligarchic majority not to shed crocodile tears for private entrepreneurs. They don't need your tears. They want to have normal business conditions. It was a shame to see how the factions of the majority were indignant that the Cabinet of Ministers wanted to increase the single and fixed taxes by 3-5 times. What are you indignant about? It's your established government! You have voted to set a minimum wage of 205 dollars as of January 1, 2004, instead of 237 dollars, as required by the law! Thank God that the efforts of democratic forces and entrepreneurs have succeeded in dissuading a single fixed tax. But the introduction of Ukraine’s mandatory pension insurance law on January 1st will still increase the tax burden on small and medium - size enterprises, perhaps even three times. Why are you silent? So, honourable national MPs, I think that we in the Supreme Council need to look separately at the problem of small and medium-sized business. And everything we do is so that we can honor the work of these people and create normal conditions for their development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u132	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Please, National Deputy Sokirko, get ready for Chernevski. I can't see. I'm gonna get ready for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u133	Mikola Sokirko, "Our Ukraine" faction, Solidarity Party. Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. As a result of poor agrarian policies, the country is experiencing a systemic food crisis that results in a sharp rise in food and bread prices. With every day the level of social protection of citizens is declining, the government deprives citizens of the right guaranteed by the Constitution to earn a living by refusing to raise the minimum wage, which is three times lower than the minimum wage. And that is where the electorate wants to express his opinion by calling on the government today. Stop rising prices for bread and other food products, index wages and pensions, raise the minimum wage of the minimum wage, stop tax pressure and administrative pressure on small and medium -sized businesses. And by confirming this, my predecessor, the Hare's deputy, has made a great deal of this evidence, and a thorough analysis has just been carried out. In the 2004 budget, the government was able to raise the minimum wage, tax reform, introduce some shadow flows into the budget, but the rate is taken to finance individual political parties, and budget costs under opaque schemes are concentrated in specific regions. And the list of social subsidies for cities takes several pages in the budget law. It is also surprising that the government ignores the idea of a budget committee, other committees of the Supreme Council. Look, social spending is not a priority when between the first and the second readings they raise the level of funding for all the power tools: the defences, the IMF, the BSS, and so on -- and social articles are provided at the former level. No budget committee proposal on the Minculture line or on the Minpraca line or on the social policy line is taken into account. As a national deputy, I have been approached by a large number of voters in Winnickin who are asking us to pay attention to the 2004 budget vote for removing article 88 of the draft Ukrainian law because raising fixed and sole taxes will lead to an increase in revenues to local budgets -- that's not true. It will virtually destroy the simplified tax system, the main achievement of which is the possibility of working legally in the legislative field of hundreds of thousands of small businesses. When we vote, we should remember that we have a political responsibility that entails the global consequences of the destruction of millions of jobs, the destruction of small businesses in Ukraine, the confrontation between entrepreneurial structures and taxpayers, small businesses will be overshadowed, and corruption will flourish in controlled bodies. It is time to declare support for small business in words and to reduce it in action. Considering that changing the rate through the budget is not part of the legislation of Ukraine. As is known from yesterday’s meetings of the Budget Committee, the government intends to complete the budget process at the second reading stage, although many such issues are still unaccounted for and not settled, including the main one is the minimum wage. The government will propose to the Supreme Council to set the minimum wage of -205 dollars since 1 January 2004. I would like to point out that in vain the government went through the process of harmonising the budget law, not in the Supreme Council, openly and transparently, but in individual factions, it was cool. It's the wrong way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u134	Thank you. The word has been given to the people’s representative of Puzakov. Getting ready, I'm sorry, it means "weak" getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u135	Vladimir Puzakov. A faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Kirovgrad. In a country where the oligarchs have control not only of the Bank, but of the rest of the authorities, life becomes oblivious, from morning to evening, every major pain is felt if the tariffs on gas, water, heat, electricity have not been raised. If two years ago it was not just fair tariffs, Ukraine and Kuchma were getting scarier and scarier. The heat in our apartments is getting smaller and smaller, and the tariffs are getting higher and higher. 40 per cent of the audited utilities in the community are now fearlessly and abruptly deceived and counted by the State and the population. At current prices, intermediaries receive surpluses. In the city of Kirovograd, for example, there is no satisfactory heat and water supply. It's been a long time since there's been any water in the past, people are asking why it's happening, and the answer is the same as always: "In connection with gas, water, electricity". That is why the limit of water and gas has been cut by 30 per cent, and that is not an economic crime, knowing that medicine, culture, education are now living a life of poverty and dying, and we are unable to help them, even in the next year's budget, we cannot put the necessary amount in place for their normal functioning, based on the fact that there is no money, and if we think about it honestly, every member of the so-called coalition government and personally elected, we can find money. For example, introduce a monopoly in the State on the production and trade of wine and tobacco products. Review tax benefits provided to taxpayers especially in free trade zones. Only these measures will ensure that an additional amount of $70 billion is made available to the budget, almost one and a half annual budgets. The State that has put itself on the path of a purely market economy that has been completely excluded from governance and has a regulatory role in the economy is who is the main culprit of the situation in which the prices of the most essential food, tariffs, gasoline and so on are cumbersome. Also, the visibility of the attempt to find power over those who profit huge capital does not inspire confidence. This is, excuse me, fiction and deception of public opinion, and the people behind the poverty line are suffering and their suffering is increasing. Due to the sharp rise in prices for bread, groats and flour, the consumption of bread has doubled as compared with military time, i.e. 400 grams per dependant, 600 grams per employee, 800 grams per worker. And now a family of three consumes one loaf of bread a day -- just 650 grams of toast per person, 215 grams per person. And in peacetime, without war and disaster! This must be done in such a way as to lead the people to such a state. And as far as the current power does not try to confuse people, the reasons for this situation are the most real famine in 2003. And no laws will solve the problem. "The Giant of Acquisition"? Released from the bottle by the existing system of power and driven back will not be possible until the system of power and the course of reforms has been changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u136	The word has a national MP, Slabenko, to prepare for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u137	Sergey Slabenko, electoral district number 19, Volinsk district. I'd like to start with a fragment of a citizen's statement by a citizen of the village of Rogozana Volodymyr-Wollin district about giving her a piece of pie as a former colporteur, and now a pensioner. She sent her statement to the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Court and the Attorney General. In her statement, she writes: "Your Honor, I understand that Kiev does not have a 500km distance to see the disadvantages, and so you send all my documents back down again to those people who have committed these violations." [[In her statement, she describes them.]] Olga Gordivna continues: "As a citizen of Ukraine, I am addressing you for the last time, but please do not send my complaints to the first instance, but assign a special officer to me and I will show him all the documents and witnesses that will overturn this lie." Olga Gordivna in her statement rightly asks the question that the actions of the local authorities should be checked by the superior authorities, but I have great doubts that this will happen. As an example, on October 17, this year, I was disturbed by the Supreme Council’s review of the activities of the Volin Observatories, led by Anatoly the French, on the issue of the efficient use of funds allocated from Ukraine’s national budget for financing capital projects in the Volinsk region in 2003. On November 12th, I received a letter from the Ministry of Economics stating, "According to the Volin Observatories at Lubomil Central District Hospital, a whole set of work has been done over the last few years and this has allowed it to be removed from critical condition." Next: "In relation to the efficiency of the use of budgetary resources, we note that the Chief Administrator is responsible for their purposeful use." Establishment of a commission of experts from the Cabinet of Ministers to study the issue of the efficiency of the use of funds. This is the competence of the supervisory authorities and the supervisory institutions. I address you, Your Honor, with such a question. Yes, based on the answer received from UDA Panchachin’s deputy head, it is possible to determine what is really going on in Volina and how money is spent effectively. Having spent just one day studying the subject. In one day, the signature was prepared by the Deputy Minister of Economy and the answer was given to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Is it not possible for the central authorities to carry out a comprehensive UDA audit in Volinsky, led by Anatoly French? It is necessary to wait a year for the year of the end of 2002, then to establish objective reasons that are once again a violation of the target cost. Once again, to be held accountable, and over the course of the year, there is no one to control this money. Therefore, in summary of the above, I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to address the issue before the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with regard to the attention given to the referral of members of the people and the consideration of the issues which they have essentially raised. I would like to ask the first Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikola Janović Azarov, to take effective steps to address the issue I have raised on 17 October 2003 and to carry out a review of Volinski's activities, led by Anatoly French on the efficiency of spending public funds on 31 objects in the Volin region, which I have been informed by letter No.21-7721/5 of 7 November of this year by your personal signature. I ask the Attorney-General to ensure that the Office of the Attorney-General examines the complaint of a citizen of Sharaban and restores her rights. My address is to be counted as an appropriate reference to officials. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u138	Thank you. The word is given to the people’s representative of Jaborovsky. The next Cossack gives him his time, so six minutes. Prepare Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u139	Third open letter to President Kuchmi of Ukraine. Mr. President, your Majesty has finally responded personally to my open letters in an interview with the court newspaper 2000. So we have a dialogue. Yeltsin’s feast in Gout had an impact on your already specific way of thinking. You've given your attention to the Balkans, Georgia, our Ukraine, the government, the Parliament and, I don't believe it, Yavorowski. A whole chapter of me from the king's shoulder with presidential generosity. The mestigation of the general writing congregations, paid from the people’s pocket by your administration, has failed. Several MPs "our Ukrainians" and courageous writers refused to take over the House of the Writers' Association. The plenary, which includes the most famous writers, was unanimously condemned by the written HCHR, organized according to your instructions, and you're the one who said, "From the media, I learned that the writers had been gathered and the leadership changed." You thought your domestics had already turned the Ukrainian writers into a flock of beggars, because the new liberal law on book publishing had killed your veto because you were blocking through the government the increase in pitiful pensions for writers. No, Mr. President, you're mistaken. Of the nearly two thousand members of the Society, you were able to intimidate, buy, kill only half a hundred. So there was no convention, no change in direction. In the chapter on Yavorivsky, you appeal to the President of Serbia and Montenegro, "I won't tell you what I told him." You don't have to, Leonid Danilovich. Millions of Ukrainians know your language, even after they have cut out their mouths. "But here's what he said. I'm here to make sure that politicians go to Parliament. We had an epidemic. The doctors went to Parliament. Four years from now, there's no politics, no doctor. This is about Yavorivsky, who has also turned to politics." Answer. Politics caught up with me in the late '80s when you, the secretary of the party, then the director of the extraterritorial military factory and in a terrible dream, couldn't imagine Ukraine as an independent country. And I, with that dangerous idea then, won in Kiev the tough elections to the Allied Parliament, and a year before the Ukrainian Parliament in the enlarged Lightwater. This is when you, a Communist, have your palms crossed from the very thought of it. You've never made your own rockets. And I wrote dozens of novels, novels and novels, books of publicism. In May 1986, the writer of Yavorowski was in the Chernobyl zone, standing next to Sakharov against Gorbachev’s self - confidence, later holding public meetings, being ready for arrest in the days of the HCHR, declaring the Act of Independence. In the risked days of fighting for the Ukrainian state, you were sitting in a group of 239. No one heard your voice or your breathing. And you have the audacity to say that Yavorovsky "also threw himself into politics." Yes, I did. For all food he has always loved, loved, and loved Ukraine more than himself. You betray her several times a day for the sake of your self - preservation and preservation of your anti - Ukrainian environment. In 1998, you threw your whole bushman armada against me, anyone but Yavorowski, who faked the election. And I was pushed to second place. You were told, "Javorowski is gone forever." And I rolled up my sleeves and wrote a novel called Crisis, four novels, dozens of stories, two books, "What kind of people are we?'," he led the program on the radio that you closed. The writers at the convention chose me as the head of the Society. In the Majority District, I'm being chosen with limited financial resources by a deputy who's passed your union by 58,000 votes! So you're talking about Yavorowski, or about the CEO's party that the anti-tunchmic wave made president? "And talked about the election of the President. Let's say they don't choose a politician, a writer there or someone else?" He replies: "There must be a politician in the head of the country, not an employee of culture, medicine, technology and so on. Because the head of the Power is foreign policy. National security. We need a person to go to school rather than start studying to be president." You've dedicated three paragraphs to me, Mr. President, and how many nonsensees. The writer Havel became a national hero of the Czech Republic! He brought his nation into a European society, a patriot who did not even care for his presidential pension. And your family and surroundings privatized half of Ukraine! Actor Reagan has made America a super state and turned your missiles into junk! In Israel, writer and glorious prime minister of Britain, unlike you, many wrote, read, and thought for themselves, Lincoln, Churchill, De Gaulle, Chernobyl, Valencia, Iliescu, Brazzauscas. So you're getting cocky as a professional politician who's been studying for seven years coming to the presidency, experimenting on a patient and resilient nation's second term and swinging at a third? The President, already aware that Russian hair was reaching for the Ukrainian Tuzla, is going to Brazil for a carnival. And the "unprepared" writer-deputy at the session is making the first public request for insight into Ukraine's integrity. Could he betray his people, such as Havel, Kwasniewsky, Brazzauscas, or the same Putin? So, Mr. President, your indisputable answer to me is reinforced by the pouring of cave fictions about “Our Ukraine”, Yushchenka, finally about me in your televisions and subtitles, the thieving of the Writer's Society, the Donetsk Wakhanalia, the total demilitarization of law enforcement. The agonizing behavior of your backyards? The betrayal of national interests, the Marauder cruelty and immorality of your team -- that's how he finishes the bushmism. In your interview, you have a phrase that gives you out. Imagine Shevardnadze waving his hand and leaving. There will be nothing left of Georgia.” The Ukrainians are convinced of another. Mr. President, wave your hand and go. And after you are born our new real Ukraine, just wave your hand and go.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u140	The word has a national deputy, Costinjuk, to prepare for the School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u141	The People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinjuk. Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. The "Our Ukraine" faction strongly protested against the insolent and unconceivable onslaught of power on the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. Against the reduction of social guarantees and restrictions on social protection of the population. Traveling bread, food, transportation, and utilities Millions of people are becoming poorer every day. The social crisis is silenced by controlled authority and the oligaric clans of the press. The President and his administration have put in place a severe censorship. Citizens are denied access to true information about the situation in the country. The authorities limit their right to freedom of peaceful congregations and to protest human rights violations. The government has launched a dirty company against opposition forces that protect national interests, rights, and freedoms of citizens. The media on the Bank's team is spreading slanders on the block of "Our Ukraine." At that time, the government deprives citizens of the right guaranteed by the Constitution to earn a living by refusing to raise the minimum wage, three times lower than the minimum wage. He refuses to have a million pensioners in the constitutional right to receive pensions at a minimum of living. The government exerts pressure on small and medium - size businesses, introducing new fights to fill the pockets of money - launderers. The government does not have the support of the people and wants to deprive Ukrainian citizens of the right to change power, to elect a president, so they fear direct presidential elections, which will be the verdict of the current regime. Neither did the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where the administrative majority, along with the Communists, violated the requirements of the Rules and the Constitution of Ukraine. The company received the portfolio of the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council in exchange for the Presidential candidacy of the Attorney-General. The cover-up has become clear. Voters have demonstrated the company's deep integration into today's system of power. The Communists, authorized by the authorities to run Parliament, now share with them all responsibility for the situation in the country and for the social status of its citizens. "Our Ukraine" requires a halt to the rise in prices of bread and other food products, to index wages and pensions, and to compensate for their undervaluation as a result of higher prices. To raise the minimum wage to the minimum of living, to stop tax and administrative pressure on small and medium-sized businesses, to adopt the Law on the Election of National Deputies on a proportionate basis, to guarantee direct election of the President to Ukrainian citizens. The "Our Ukraine" faction calls on the Ukrainian people to defend their constitutional rights and together we will give back to this anti-national government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u142	I just want the communists to be given the opportunity to answer and the authorities, and you'd see what they'd do. Yes, please, School. Prepare Nadya, Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u143	Thank you. The school of Andrew. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I'd like to pause for two aspects of my speech, first of all, I usually support speakers, I'm having a hard time speaking after Yavorowski, who in a fiery speech or in his letter to the President, you know, I'm glad he's happy, maybe the President can't read. Perhaps you should send a tape, write down your voice, write a fiery talk, write a tape to him, or listen to his surroundings, and at least it will come to them, not what they report to him. But in general, I wanted to stop at another aspect of the activities of the Presidential Administration and this Presidential Authority on a private television channel. Just recently, literally yesterday, some pathetic creature sitting in front of a TV screen was telling us all about television and me, including how Nazi or nationalistic propaganda is developing in Ukraine. And here I was listening. And it was based on the fact that the session of the Ternopil City Council unanimously by 42 votes to none. name for another. Of course, we can treat this rename differently, we can comment, but no one has the right to call it legal or illegal. No one here has the right to moralize because it is the decision of a higher legislature. That's it. It's all very simple if the same higher legislature is somewhere in Crimea or anywhere else they're going to name something else, of course it may be pleasing or displeasing to every person's right to respond to a decision, but we have to remember that there is a Constitution, in accordance with this Constitution, it's the higher authority of the local government that the people have chosen there, the decision that they make. So who should be judged, I think the people then. It has been said that we have a people who cannot choose the third term of a normal president. The people must be changed by then, if they cannot choose this President. You know, there are some nuances here in all of these things, where without taste or enthusiasm, there's just a bunch of dirtyness, it's not propaganda, it's sequential arson, it's an agony of an existing regime. And if it wasn't covered in various reforms or reforms, in fact, fear is making the knees and jaws of an existing regime. When it is similar to a exclamation point, when it pays for the services of people whose intellectual abilities are beyond doubt. They have to be checked, billed overnight for a year and a half, and then they may appear in front of TV or radio audiences. And lastly, I'd like to say that I'd like to remind you of the ancient and famous story of caravans and dogs. I'd like to say that the caravan only goes under dog bark. Your hawk is even better at measuring our step. Whip, and at the rhythm of your barking, we will walk toward our goal, and by your barking, we will win. Then, when we win, I hope to hear your gossip. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u144	The word has the national deputy Frost Anatoly, to prepare Harmash.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u145	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Repeatedly, I am approached by residents of the township of the Yakimiv district of Zaporozhye district with concerns about the settlement of the issue related to the start of the heating season in the village. The point is that the IMSH South branch of the IMSH Department of the Ukrainian Academy of Agrarian Sciences is located on the site of the Yakimiv Village Council. In 2003, in the Southern branch, IMSH created a complex situation in preparation for the heating season 2003-2004. From the debts of the past years, namely, the southern branch of IMESH owed SPT "Ascom" for the gasification and equipment of the car 544773 bracelets. And DK Gaz-Ukraine and Zaporozhaz for the 91938 bracelet gas consumed. Taking into account this difficult situation, through the village council repeatedly, even before the start of the heating season, he began to raise this issue at various levels of power, inviting those leaders who were subject to the Yakimiv Southern branch of Imesh to deal with the problem. On June 20, 2003, at the suggestion of the management of a city - type village, the director of the NCC arrived, conducting an easter of the citizens, where many issues were addressed, including preparations for the heating season. Repeatedly, preparation for the heating season was discussed at meetings of the village council. Sadly, though, the problem has not been solved. They received a fax from the director of this branch, which shows that the solution to the heating problem has no prospect. That's why they're forced to turn to me once again, both as a national deputy, and to the Supreme Council, and to the Cabinet of Ministers. As a result of the foregoing, the Southern branch of NNC IMESH’s IMESH City Village, Jakimovka Zaporozhi District, requests the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, to assist in resolving the issue of the gas supply of boilers located in the branch. The absence of a State branch, the low capacity of the population, the infertility of the last year -- do not allow this scientific budgetary organization to find its own reserves and pay back the accumulated debt for gas at 90 grand. The bracelet and provide a warm village. So, personally, I, and the residents of this town like Yakimovka, ask and personally Mikola Janovićazarov to resolve the issue at least in part in order to start the heating season. Otherwise, the inhabitants of this village are forced to take improper action. Please consider my statement as a parliamentary request to Mikola Janović Azarov as Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u146	Thank you The Word has Galina Fedorovna Harmash. Get ready for Lechchenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u147	Harmash Galina, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear voters! I'd like to start my speech by quoting a speech to "Luhanskina." Fire Against Truth" published in the last issue of the newspaper of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Tovarish. No, it was no accident that after the regime was established in Ukraine, its representatives began to correct the content of school programs not only from history, but from Ukrainian literature, removing works such as "The Earth" by Olga Kobilianski, which had become classic. Because it's the Earth that shows the whole tragedy of a situation that the struggle for land that has become a commodity can lead to. The so - called agrarian reform in today’s Ukraine is all about this: sometimes quiet and sluggish, sometimes loud and even bloody, land and land to the peasants for the benefit of the powerful world of this. It was to protect the interests of the people of the village of Novorosas Novopskovsky region of Lugansk and to return to them the property from the limited liability association "Elita" at the sum of 52 thousand bracelets that became the first secretary to the Paradise of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Aleksandra Ivanovna Kovalova. In response to her active stand for the protection of the rights of the defrauded and looted sexists, thieves broke into her house on the night of November 10 to 11, fueled the building with gasoline. The only thing left of a good house was burned walls, everything being destroyed practically to the ground. Alexandra Kovalova lost all her possessions, even her clothes, documents. Because of her happy circumstances, she was not at home at that time, so she remained alive. In fact, the local authorities did not respond in any way to the crime, only under the pressure of local socialists, the national deputies of Ukraine discovered a criminal case. Even though the governor of the Luhansk region of Ephraim has directed all kinds of help to the woman, officials on the spot do not rush to do so. Today, despite the pain of losing a parent’s home, Alexandra Kovalova is now faced with the difficult moral and material conditions in which she is now living, determined and determined to bring the matter to an end. And her strength and optimism add to her respect, support, the trust of fellow Americans and our socialists. From all over Ukraine, socialists are raising money to buy a home for this courageous woman. Understanding the essence of this regime, which is based on crime, lies, and provocations, does not intimidate us. The socialists say: "We're not slaves, we're going to win anyway. In this fight, we are strong and courageous." By the way, December 17th in the Herson region will be the election in four districts to the district council. We call on voters to support the socialists. In the Borislav region of lawyer Viktor Arkushenko, in the Cologne, teacher Nina Yvashchenko, in the Novovorontsov medical doctor Michael Poor, in Kakhovsky, director of the Agrarian Technicum, Natal Osseuljak. They, as socialist Alexandra Ivanovna Kovalova of Luhansk, are capable of protecting your constitutional rights, your interests, and your ability to change life for the better. Fight, we'll fight!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u148	Thank you. The word mass MP Lechchenko. Get ready, Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u149	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The closer the presidential election of Ukraine, the more crocodile tears, as if from the pain of the plight of the people of Ukraine, are poured out by the Ukrainian factions. They believe that the sheeplike skins of the benefactors can thus be drained from the memory of the afflicted, distressed people, of the great tribulation that these benefactors have experienced in the past 15 years. They are now in the bourgeois power of the Kuchma, who are struggling only to capture it in their own hands, to continue to abuse the workers, chewing and chewing on the distorted and distorted historical events of the past century regarding famine in Ukraine, repression, and so forth. They have consistently been able to conduct political provocations with regard to the Ukrainian Compatriot with the Presidential Administration. Suppose they don't understand, you can't. Here, too, in his statement on the political situation that was heard today by Deputy Costinük, we have made an attempt to shift responsibility for the state from a sick head to a healthy one. They claim some deep integration of the Company into today's system of government. What a hoax! Let them mention how at the end of the 1980s, along with the American and other special forces, the State of Workers - the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics - was rocked by a petrol coup in Ukraine in 1991, as they handed over power to villains and misdemeanours, thieves in the law, as well as the last such jackals near the great beast were stretched out, torn to pieces of national good, as they voted in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for all anti-national budgets, such programmes of temporary governments, privatizations or pacts of plundering the people, as the incumbent President had done in the coup in 2000 in the Ukrainian House, as in the times of the premierships of the Yuschenka, misapprehending their pensions, as they had then taken, and until then taken away from the current president, and so far taken over by other prisoners, medical professionals, small-minded children. How, along with Cuchma and American Ambassador Carlos Pascoal, our boys were sent to the American War in Iraq. As is the case today, the chiefs of the Bank’s Street are constantly consulted about the continuation of capitalist construction. They built their Ukraine, where the people are dying. Don't be sad, the people of Ukraine will never forget their thefts. And with regard to the Ukrainian Company, the conglomerate of Nazis to the level of Communists regarding loyalty to the working people will never grow! Just don't be called Communists by those who never were Communists. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u150	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy of Hinsburg. Prepare Kadenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u151	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. I thank you very much for the speech of my Communist friend, the previous speaker, and I join his opinion. But I have another problem today, 161st constituency, Konotop, Six and others. I have this problem, and it's probably everywhere today. Several of my references to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Education, the Minister of Justice, the Government of Sumu came to me with the same answers. The answers relate to the problem that has arisen in the school of Sustka County, where the entire labour force is standing today, is in such a state that it is unable to work because someone, which is understandable to whom, today would like to lead this educational institution. And that's what's coming out of it. As the teaching community says. This letter is addressed to you at the Shastkin High School. Our small school, which has 411 high school students and has 35 teachers. It takes up the premises of former secondary school No. 3, at the age of 100. In high school, our high school came up. There have been 12 years. During this time, it became known in the area, Ukraine, abroad, Germany, Switzerland, and the United States. Today we are competing with other similar schools of a new type in the city of Konotapi in Suma. And in our city, we have long held the top priority for the number of winners and prize winners of the various tours. The school had a clear outlook for development, its traditions. A team of teachers is a group of thinkers who are characterized by what has high intellectual potential in the state and the same level of professionalism. 80 percent of high school teachers have a higher qualification category, four of them are Methodist teachers. Seven is a senior teacher. But it happened that during the last school year, the school was working without a supervisor. The former director was budgeted, and the new director was never appointed during such a long period. The director’s duties were at the hands of the deputy director of Shivay. She became the director of the high school. Although legally she had no right to do so. Because the city’s education department, which we learned only recently, did not legitimize its authority by order. The pedcolector repeatedly applied during the school year and, in the case of the appointment of the director, offered candidates but did not succeed. It was explained that it was not easy to pick up a candidate. And on the rebirth of September 1st, they picked the end. The pedcolectic once again appealed to the mayor of the city to decide on the appointment of a school principal, and it was quite unexpected for all teachers, parents, the city’s publicity as the director of the high school, to become Yulia Mikhailovna, a mathematics teacher, a second-class specialist, a second-class teacher. This issue was in the order of the day - to - day congregation of pedcolectors and September 1st, invited to serve as district council deputies, mayor of the city, head of education. In these congregations, the group expressed distrust as a person who is not prepared to take such a serious position. I decided to take care of the appointment of a director. And once again there is no promise, but there is no change and no solution to the problem, because the political forces of the SDPU(O) have intervened because the school director Moroz is a member of this party. A similar assignment compromises any party today, impressing that time is not enough, that the officials of the department are twisting the facts, and after meeting with the ped group, the city leaders and the district promised to remove this problem, but for today it has reemerged, and I am meeting in this pedagogical group, today addressing the sessions of the Supreme Council to the Cabinet of Ministers, to which I have already sent out to count my address as a reference and need an answer. I would like to remind you once again that all the problems that have arisen in school today are demeaning deserving teachers who teach children and put such a burden on the shoulders of our children who see it all. I want to say today from this rostrum, I very much hope that the head of the Vladimir Petrovich Szczerbán district administration, who promised me to remove this problem, will still carry out his duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u152	Thank you. Leonid Konstantinovich Kadenyuk has the word to prepare for Radion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u153	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Honourable National Deputies, the city of Hotin, in Bukovin, celebrated its millennium last year. It is one of the most unique and self - centered cities in Ukraine, has an extremely rich history involving the lives and activities of prominent historical persons, such as Bogdan Hmelnicki, Peter Dorosenko, Mikhailo Lomonosov, and many others. The city was founded not by the intersection of important trade routes, but by Dniester served as a shipping artery to the Black Sea and then to Western Europe and the Middle East. It was by chance that a fortress was built on the banks of Dniester, which was at that time the most powerful in the fortifications of Eastern Europe. Taking into account the scientific and historical value of the city in order to preserve and restore its unique collection of monuments in Hotin, the State Historical and Architectural Reserve of the Hotin Fortress was created. International conferences are held each year in Hotin, with the participation of scientists. On October 17, this year, the International Conference was held on the role of nations and peoples in the formation of the historical and cultural heritage of the country. Scientists from Turkey, Moldova, and Romania took part in the conference with Ukrainian scientists. At the same time, the conference, marking recent work on the preservation and restoration of the Hotyn Fortress, expressed concern about the current state of many historical monuments and fortress buildings. After all, a unique architectural heritage, the Hotyn Fortress, has suffered significant losses and destruction for many years. The lack of capital resources in the development of engineering infrastructure, the lack of funds to maintain the proper state of the fortress buildings, further degradation of a unique fortress environment, destruction of valuable forgetfulness, and history and architecture. Individual monuments are re-emerged, and some buildings are in emergency condition. Experts estimate that a unique complex of Hotyn Fortress buildings needs immediate action to preserve and reproduce them. To date, some 50 percent of the castle’s historical nucleus has not been rebuilt. We need to carry out an engineering survey of the entire fortress complex. Anti-accident and conservative measures to prevent the further destruction of the historical barrier. Creating safe conditions for tourists and other visitors to the fortress The hotel has an extremely convenient geographical location on promising and international routes with Romania and Moldova, near the border and the district center of Bukovina, the city of Chernivci. The city is considered to be one of the main tourist centers in the area, and today it receives significant flows of tourists and guests. During 2002 and 2003, more than 100,000 visitors and tourists from Ukraine and abroad visited the city and fortress. The implementation of the first-line restoration and reconstruction work, their timely funding, will allow for the preservation of a unique monument to history, architecture, and defence heritage — the Hotin Fortress. The number of tourists and visitors in the city will increase considerably, and Hotin will rightly make it an important tourist center not only for Bukovina but for all of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u154	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy of Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u155	Commie faction, Rodionov. Dear radio listeners! You're the only one who can be contacted right now, because there aren't many deputies in the Chamber. But I would like to raise two questions in my statement: one of which was spoken of today or forced to speak today by the deputies from Our Ukraine. Regrettably, once and for all, they begin to repeat the message that the Communists, by electing the Attorney-General, elected a representative of the Vice-President of the Supreme Council, my candidate, I will tell one of the best candidates, perhaps the Supreme Council went on some kind of conspiracy with the majority. But the more absurd theses are hard to come up with. I want to say to the listeners, to the radio audience, "Our Ukraine" also counts itself as the opposition. Indeed, the Communists felt and felt that the current plight in the country, as has been said, had been the case more than once, that the current leadership, the Government, the President, was directly responsible and felt that, of course, this power must be removed from power by the Government. In this regard, “Our Ukraine” also believes that the current President should be replaced. This is the only position in which our goals coincide. But our Ukraine believes that it is enough to elect their representative as President, and everything will be very fine. The Communists have never felt that way or thought that way before. The Communist programme is not to replace one President with another, not to replace one clan with another clan. Since we've been relocating folded places, we all know the amount hasn't changed. And it will not be easier for this people. Communists believe and seek to change this power to the people's power, to bring the people closer to the means of production, to ensure that criminal, oligarchic groups are removed from the country's administration. This is, of course, a completely different programme, and never with the majority, nor with other right parties, our programme will coincide because we have different goals. But if we go along the path of confrontation, which is chosen by distinguished deputies, I say, it is in the hands of what the current regime does not change, because they seek communists who do not have anything to do with this regime, but rather to change Ukraine's devices, that is to say, in general differences. And that the current regime needs to be changed is the 2004 budget. I'll only get two numbers for the audience. Well, we all know in what situation the bread and the blood are, as she says, whether there's a roof over her head. That's the budget. For example, nearly 6 billion are planned for the judiciary and law enforcement agencies and less 4 for agriculture. That is, the fact that we are always talking about a new genocide and hunger is something that we are not paying attention to, but we are still trying or trying to strengthen. the so-called police functions of the State. Well, of course it's in the hope of what. or in fear that the people of Ukraine will ever ask for these. From these capitalists, why did they bring him to such a state of poverty and begin the genocide of their own people?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-21-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We must be content with our work today. We've done everything planned for today. Including all those who wanted to participate in the Miscellaneous today also granted their wishes. I'm asking the staff of the Office of the Apparatus to prepare appropriate assignments for those appeals and suggestions that were made in the "Variable" from the mouth of the National Deputies. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. The next plenary session, I think, will begin at 10 a.m. on November 25.
