ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:18]] Registered -426 A total of 426 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleagues, Toloczka Petra Petrovich, who is 65 years old, the Jubilee. Let us welcome and wish you every success. Nightnight Mikoli Petrovich, also Birthday. And so is Slobodan Alexander Viacheslavovich. So we welcome our colleagues, and we wish them prosperity in good health. Please listen to the announcement. In harmony with articles 4.2.2. and 4.2. 3 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the protocol of the parliamentary faction "Political Parties, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine" and "Trudova Ukraine" of 20 February 2003, I inform that the head of the parliamentary faction "Political Parties, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine" and "Trudova Ukraine" have been elected the authorized representative of this faction of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sharov Igor Fedorovich. To represent the deputy faction authorized by the national deputies of Ukraine, Dashutin Grigori Petrovich and Gureev Vasil Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, I wanted to remind you that today is the International Day of the Language. I welcome you to this festival, and I would like it to motivate you to meditate. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the list of issues that we have to consider today, you have. As you know, there are no parliamentary requests available, but there are many. Is there any objection to our voting on the parliamentary motions? Thank you. Then I'll put them to the vote now. A request was made by Ukrainian national deputies Yuri Karmazin to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Justice for Constitutional Activities, the illegal occupation of office and the exercise of the authority of the head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Pritika Dmitr Mikitovic. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:57]] For-151 Decision taken. Victor Antemuk to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the provision of official clarification in connection with the amendments to article 51 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2003. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:29]] For 118 Decision taken. Andrija Verevski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the organization of postal companies in the Poltav region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:53]] Z-91 Decision taken. Andrew School to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the national programme "Foreign Ukraine" for the period until 2005. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:21]] For-94 Decision taken. Hennady Rudenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the critical ecological situation in the village of Mikhailivka, the first Kotelev region of the Poltav region in connection with the operation of the Sikhlingproces gas company. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:55]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Viktor Drachewski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of work from the removal of submergment of the city of Nicopol. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:21]] For-188. Decision taken. Anatoly of Domanski to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation in the open stock company Lonotex of the Žitomir region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:48]] For 139 Decision taken. Mikoli Krutz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to exclude Carpathian from the list of objects that are not subject to privatization. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:16]] For-149 Decision taken. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the publication of the additions to the agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the Ukrainian-Russian state border, which describes and depicts the passage of the state border. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:47]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Vasil Onopenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations of constitutional principles for the administration of justice as a result of the improper financing of Ukraine's judicial system, in particular the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:18]] For-138 For - 138, the decision is made. Eugene Reddiennek to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations of legislation in the joint orders of the Ministry of Economics and on European integration of Ukraine and the State Customs Service of Ukraine on customs clearance of goods. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:52]] For 135 For - 135, the decision is made. Viktor Borszewski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the conflict situation that took place at the Dnipropetrov Steel Plant Petrovsky. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:19]] For 133 For - 133, the decision is made. Alexander Goodima and Mikola Rudzkowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reasons for the inaction of the inter-ministerial working group created by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the activities of the International Consortium for the Transport of Gas in Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:53]] For a hundred and For - 156, the decision is made. Groups of National Deputies: Gurov, Smianenko, Movchan to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to pay off the debt of mining and metallurgical enterprises to the Horn of Crimson. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:22]] For 175 For - 175, the decision is made. Julius Timoshenko, Mikhail Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the issue of the repayment of debts to participants in the liquidation of the consequences of the CHAES accident living in the Hmielnicki region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:52]] For a hundred and For 156. Decision taken. Georgi Boyko, Anatolia Natvajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the payment of regressive payments to the disabled miners of Dobropil. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:18]] For 155 In 155, the decision is made. Vadima Gurov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of privatising the State Shareholder Company Krudprom. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:42]] For-153 In-153, the decision is made. Andrija School to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of an organ committee to honor the prisoners of the concentration camp in Berezina-Kartusska. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:12]] For-144 For 144. Decision taken. Juriya Lucenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reconciliation of the service activities of the central executive heads with the membership of the VAT Monitoring Board "The Shrine". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:41]] For-141 For 141, the decision is made. Oleg Tajnibok to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the adoption of the Cabinet of Ministers decree on compensation payments to persons affected by the Chernobyl disaster, number 836 of July 26, 1996 in accordance with the applicable legislation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:16]] For-167 Decision taken. Vladimir Bondar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the modernization programme for the Lutskwatercanal water-preparation site. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:45]] For 139 Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the review of the size of pensions for military personnel who retired before 1992. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:11]] For-140. Decision taken. Anatoly of Orzhachowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the conditions for the maintenance and upbringing of children in the Herson boarding school for orphans and the Kurupin Children's Home. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:40.]] For 185 Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the actions of the lysing company VAT "Ukraineprominvest", which damaged Ukrainian production and threatened Ukraine's economic security. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:10]] For the 120th. Decision taken. Paul Silent to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of housing rights for workers. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:36]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Mikoli Joulinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree and order the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to honor the memory of Ukrainian academics of Simyrenko. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:13]] For-140. Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank, Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the protection and return of investors to the Slovenian Bank. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:40]] For-137 Decision taken. Valentina Seminouk to the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration for the provision of copies of the President's decree of March 21, 2000 on the issue of State administration of matters. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:12]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Zarai Katusheva to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on speeding up the proceedings by the Court of Justice in civil matters involving a complaint by a member of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:41]] For 122 Decision taken. Victor Petrov to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine in connection with the failure to implement in the Vinicki area of legislation on the social protection of veterans, the Heroes of the Soviet Union, the Heroes of Social Work and the full cavalry of the Order of Slava. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:16]] For-151 Decision taken. Andrija Verevski to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ivan Kirilenko, on how to use the state budget's funds, which are aimed at financial support for agri-industrial enterprises in the Poltava region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:49]] For-95 Decision taken. Viktor Drachewski to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the financing of the targeted programme of health-ecological monitoring of the city of Nicopol. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:18]] For the 120th. Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies: Klukkowski, Gladys and others to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine regarding the appropriateness of carrying out compulsory insurance against accidents in transport by regional insurance companies. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:48]] For a-117. Decision taken. Igor Reznik to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine in connection with the failure to comply with the ruling of the Illichev District Court of Odessa. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:14]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Yuri Boyka to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the construction of clean houses in the city of Brovary I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:42]] For-137 Decision taken. People's MPs: Pekhota, Samofalov and others, to the Ukrainian Minister for Emergency Situations and People's Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, to pay off the debt owed to the Hersonbud project firm for the construction of housing and social facilities in the Populnian region of the Žitomir region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:22]] For-126 Decision taken. Anatolia Átnajka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding public service debt and nutrition of students of the Slovenian Aviation and Technical College. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:52]] For 128 Decision taken. Andrija Polita to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the organization of the execution of court decisions by the State Executive Service. I'll bet you do that. [[10:23:18]] For 131 Decision taken. Juriya Artemenko to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine on the fact that the legitimate professional activities of journalists in the Poltav region are being hampered. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:44]] For 111 Decision taken. Grigory Omelchenka to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the introduction to the Commission of the President of Ukraine of citizenship issues of submission for the cessation of Ukrainian citizenship by the National Deputy of Ukraine Mirimsky Lev Yuliyovich, who is a citizen of the State of Israel. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:19]] For 131 Decision taken. Ludmila Kirichenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, regarding the situation around the society with limited responsibility for September, Lugansk region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:47]] For-94 Decision taken. Michael Wolinz to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the obstacle to the legitimate activity of the primary association of the Kharkiv Society with limited responsibility for Prom Product. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:14]] For 105 Decision taken. Leonidas Czernovecki to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the complaint of the head of the Kharkiv District of Hope, officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office of Kharkiv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:44]] For-90 Decision taken. Alexander Crnvoluntary to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of legislation by the management of the joint venture Demos. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:10]] For 114 Decision taken. Vasil Onopenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the gross violation by the Ukrainian City Council of Legislation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:36]] For 101 Decision taken. Vladimir Petrenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of the violation of legislation in the reform of the former CSP. Lenin of the Trieste district of Sumo. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:04]] For 109 Decision taken. Eugene Redbornek to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation by officials of the State Company of the provisions of article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:37]] For-126 Decision taken. Vladimir Yeshchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation by the Prosecutor's Office of the Cherkas area of legality in the investigation of criminal cases concerning the shareholders' association Grafia-Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:07]] For 121 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of land law in the Kirovograd region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:33]] For 118 For 118, the decision is made. Alexander Turchinov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Security Service on gross violations of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2003 relating to the deployment of helicopter parts in the city of Berdichov. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:05]] For-127 For - 127, the decision is made. Mikoli Polishchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of the baseless delay and the removal by tax inspection of the Borispilla region of the drug shipment. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:32]] For 196 For 196, the decision was taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legal assessment of the bankruptcy case of the New Ukraine Sugar Company of the Kirovograd region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:01]] For-151 For -151, the decision is made. People's Deputies Groups: Hinsburg, Grigorovich, Seminouk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the prosecution of the case before the European Court of Justice concerning the protection of the rights of the resident of Kyiv Tkachenka. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:37]] For 176 For - 176, the decision is made. Groups of National Deputies: Stretovic, Kirichenko and others, to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with the failure of the prosecutors and the police to respond to allegations of criminal activity by directors of a limited-liability society called Seal-S. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:31:10]] For a hundred and For a hundred and Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service regarding the predatory destruction of forests in the Cherkas region, their theft and their export abroad, which damages Ukraine’s national interests. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:31:40]] For 180. For 180, the decision is made. Paul Silent to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the protection of the housing rights of former employees of the Bank of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:32:07]] For 165 In 165, the decision is made. Vladislav Otroszczenka to the Head of the State Customs Service of Ukraine on the opening of customs posts for the simplified crossing of the state border in the Gordnjan district of Chernigiv region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:32:35]] For-147 For 147, the decision is made. Mikoli Katerenczuka to Head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund in connection with the sale of the trust fund of an unbuilt 24-bedroom building in the town of Hmilnik of the Vinicky region at a low cost. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:33:07]] For-161 For-161, the decision is made. Nveir Mhitarjana to the Head of the National Statistical Committee of Ukraine for information on the national composition of the population of Ukraine is the largest national according to regional principles and the number of bearers of national minorities according to the 2001 census. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:33:47]] For 203 Decision taken. Victor Taran to the head of the Government of the Savings Bank of Ukraine regarding the payment of savings to citizens projected by the State Budget. [[Terra]] I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:34:16]] For 155 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Borstewski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the multi-year draw from the liquidation of the emergency state of the heating of a residential village of the type "Miliorative" in the region of Dnipropetrov. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:34:49]] For 132 Decision taken. Let us now consider the matter of the schedule of meetings. Out of procedure, please, Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! On Wednesday, in connection with the holding of a closed meeting of the Supreme Council, the faction was denied the opportunity to make statements, as is done under our Rules. There is a proposal that we now allocate 10-15 minutes to statements from factions and then continue to consider the issues that are scheduled today in the order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u3	What will be the opinion of the Supreme Council? We'll have a chance today at 1:00, dear colleagues. Please don't scream, not all at once! Who in the name of honorary colleagues to take time to 11 o'clock for speeches, announcements, statements, statements from factions, please determine by vote. [[10:36:19]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Information from the Interim Investigative Commission is being reviewed, that is, listening to information from the Interim Investigative Commission to find out the reasons for the crisis that led to the financial situation of the share-holding commercial agro-industry bank "Ukraine" and to verify compliance with the law in its liquidation. Please, King Victor, head of the commission. How long do you need? Up to 30 minutes is the information, and then we're working on it. Well, that's an offer. There will be no objection. A lot? Well, let's say we cancel out if we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! To implement the Ukrainian Supreme Council ruling of July 4, 2002, the Interim Investigation Commission will inform you of the previous results of its work. I'm going to stop at the history of the Bank of Ukraine. This bank was founded in 1991 on the basis of the former government agroprombank of Ukraine with a statutory fund of over 13,000 dollars. He had 227 directors and 510 offices serving more than 200,000 legal persons and over 1.5 million investors. Between 1991 and 1996, the bank was rapidly developing, entering the eight largest banks in Ukraine. At the same time, his statutory fund has grown more than 5,000 times. By 1998, the activities of the Bank "Ukraine" were profitable, although this profitability had a steady downward trend. The point is that this bank has attracted the attention of politicians and high - ranking individuals who have repeatedly tried to engage in its activities and even to exploit its financial capabilities for their useful purposes. The bank’s leaders proved incapable of resisting this, and they themselves took the path of abuse. As a result, on June 29, 2001, the National Bank revokes the license and appoints a liquidator to the Bank of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine responded to this event in a timely manner, and on July 5th an interim commission of inquiry was set up in the case of the Bank of Ukraine. The work of the commission, in conjunction with the Attorney General’s Office and the military authorities in six months, has revealed more violations in the banking field than in all previous years. Two thousand 393 unreturned Ukraine loans have been set up on time for more than 1.3 billion dollars. A number of measures have been taken to prevent further theft of property by the Bank of Ukraine, to preserve its integrity. The commission named the names of those who were involved in the collapse of the bank and used their service position to meet their own infinite needs. These names were published in previous information from the commission of inquiry. A major achievement of the last commission of inquiry is the law - enforcement work. A special law on the bank "Ukraine" has been developed and adopted. On January 10, last year, the Supreme Council decree was also adopted, which is binding, here I would like you to draw your attention, which obliges you to publish a list of the 150 largest debtors of the bank, identifying their owners and outstanding loans. Under this decision, the Cabinet of Ministers had to decide within 10 days on the use of the real estate of the Bank "Ukraine" and to take all measures to accelerate the repayment of the debt for loans issued by the Bank. Nazbank and the government were to inform state institutions about the danger of making agreements with the bank’s debtors. The decree obliged the liquidator to publish through the media monthly the state of the bank’s debt and the flow of funds in the stock account. Nazbank had to set up a commission to study the legality of the long-term repayment of loans by the borrowers of the Bank of Ukraine. Sadly, though, none of these items were performed in a quality and timely manner. Moreover, former Finance Minister Jusko gave oral orders to terminate the activities of the inter-ministerial government group at the Bank of Ukraine without any reason. On July 4, 2002, the Supreme Council of Ukraine restored the work of the interim commission of inquiry, which is a logical extension of the previous one. According to these tasks, the commission of inquiry has finally confirmed that the causes of the bankruptcy of the Bank of Ukraine are the country's risky and harmful use of significant resources, questionable loans, non-economic spending of the bank's own resources management apparatus, the lack of effective control of the National Bank over the activities of one of the largest system banks, the uncertain and passive role of the government of Ukraine, the weak operation of law enforcement authorities, the prevention of abuses in the banking system, the high level of corruption in the financial and banking spheres, the unprofessional activities of the bank's management in market conditions. All these reasons have been confirmed by law enforcement authorities. Thus, 471 crimes have been discovered by law enforcement agencies, 216 of them in the past year alone. Of these, 375 criminal cases have been committed. Crimes include 254, 8 acts of bribery, fraud with financial resources, 107 thefts, and 27 others. The criminal responsibility involved 334 persons, including 111 regional officials and branches of the bank, including 3 bank administrators, 4 government administrators and 3 deputies, 37 branch managers, 22 bank executives, and more than 200 business leaders involved in the commission of crimes. The appearance of such a number of criminal cases in the banking field indicates that the commission of inquiry was able to shed light on some of the bank’s dark spots. As you know, after a failed attempt to resuscitate the bank through the establishment of a temporary administration, the National Bank has appointed a bank liquidator following a tender for the bankruptcy agency of the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine. However, the commission, having examined a considerable amount of documents, revealed serious violations of the law by the liquidator. The head of this agency, Rusalin, instead of stockpiling the money to meet the investor’s demands, spent it on himself and his environment. Yes, he paid his salary at the level of the employees of the European banks, took personal protection from the Titan unit, counted the funds to other firms that allegedly participated in the liquidation of the bank, shipped himself and his environment along with the drivers to Yalta. This liquidator is staring at the real estate of the Bank of Ukraine. For example, a third person rented a house in the center of Kiev at a price of 2.8 bracelets per square metre. According to our insistence, there's an independent evaluation, an expertise, it's done, and now the sale price is 8 grand. A square meter bill. In addition, the commission of inquiry found that the liquidator and the documents had been forged. As a result of the facts verified, the Attorney General’s Office was informed that it had committed a criminal offence against Rusalina in September 2002. By the way, other employees of the bankruptcy agency who were appointed heads of the liquidation commission after Rusalina, that and Strukhov, that and Nietzsche, did nothing useful either. As a result of the so-called bankruptcy agency's activities, one of the main positions in the bank "Ukraine" was destroyed is the timely payment of the accounts with the creditors of the first queue. The contractual relationship between the National Bank and the Banking Agency was terminated, and on June 26, a new, already fifth liquidator of the Bank "Ukraine" was appointed deputy director of the National Banking Authority of the National Bank "Ukraine" of Rajevska Konstantin Evgeniovich. In addition to the current work, i.e. during the six months of the commission, nine meetings were held at which the Head and First Deputy Head of the National Bank, the Deputy Attorney-General, the Chief of Economics, the Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice and the Head of the Department of Economics, the Representative of the Securities Commission on the Stock Market, the First Deputy of the head of Privatbank, the repeated liquidator of the Bank of Ukraine. Members of the commission went to Ukraine to carry out their assignment. I can tell the honourable MPs that thanks to the promotion and constant control of the commission of inquiry on January 1st of this year, 100 percent of the debt owed to the Bank of Ukraine to boarding houses for children, boarding houses for persons with disabilities and the elderly, boarding schools for children with orphans is worth 6 million dollars. Credit requirements for all public organizations, disabled persons, and veterans amounting to 634 thousand dollars are satisfied. 1.2 million dollars have been returned to all natural persons on the blocked payments, and I'm paying you attention, all natural persons have been paid back up to 50,000 dollars, and that's 182.6 million dollars. The funds of the Mutual Understanding and Reconciliation Fund have been fully reimbursed. In total, 47104 individuals and 600 legal persons were reimbursed for a total of 222,8 million dollars. Thus, the honourable national deputies, for your part, are fully satisfied with the requirements of the first order according to our law. Ahead of meeting the requirements of the second and third rows of creditors. The second line is the National Bank of Ukraine, where the Bank of Ukraine owes 502 million dollars and 316 individuals whose deposits exceed 60,000 dollars. That's a total of 516 million. In the third row, there are 57.5 thousand legal persons, i.e. entrepreneurs, organizations, farms, who have lost 919.5 million dollars in bankruptcy. If the National Bank is mortgaged, 1 billion dollars is needed to meet the needs of the third line. That's a huge amount. At the same time, the bank has some 2,600 debtors, who did not repay their loans at the same time for an amount of 797 million dollars and owed a percentage of 650 million dollars. So the debt to the bank is about one and a half billion dollars. In addition, the bank has property that has not yet been immobilized, such as houses, cars, and securities. So the theoretical cost would be enough to satisfy all creditors, but there would still be. But virtually no one repays the bank’s debt. To avoid being loud, let me give you an example. On July 1, at the time of bankruptcy, the debt amounted to 1.3 billion dollars. One year later -- 1.4 billion dollars Today -- 1 billion 450 million dollars -- and a quarter of a billion of those loans were issued under government guarantees and government programs. This is where I draw your attention. Of the 2,000 600 debtors of 50 legal persons, the bank owes more than 1.1 billion dollars, or 76 percent of the total. And this firm was owed from two and a half million to 260 million dollars -- loans like that were taken. Over the past year and a half, only 52 million, or 3.6 percent, of the outstanding amounts, have been repaid. For all of these debtors, the liquidator carries out a back-to-back job, but its efficiency is 12 percent. According to an article of the Bank "Ukraine" Act, the third, on the settlement of the debt to the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ukrainian Security Service, we were asked to consider the legality of receiving loans, including by decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers and by the administrations, and to take steps to return them by July 1, 2002. It should be noted that this legislative commission has not been carried out. How can a return of less than 4 percent be counted as done? You can't. I'm in. Dear Attorney General, let me remind you that by the end of liquidation procedures, there will be about a year and a year and a half, and there will be both unreturned loans and unreturned funds for businesses, institutions, organizations. I don't think anyone will forgive that. It should be noted that this view of the Henprocuror is, well, unclear, because the commission's initiative has allocated 200,000 dollars to the task force to make the work effective. Sadly, no. I would like to say a few words about the work of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. This ministry has done its biggest job in its direction. But look what's happening. Interior Minister Smyrnov informed the commission on 9 December 2002, citing: "There have been 1942 checks on the legality of obtaining and purposeful use of credit resources. The measures taken helped to reduce the amount of outstanding loans from 1.4 billion dollars to 754.8 million. The internal affairs authority directly provides for the repayment of debts of 76.5 million dollars, and 17 million are arrested for property. Today, virtually all problem loans have been checked. The result of the tests is to make procedural decisions." End of quote. Once again, your attention to the message of the liquidator that only 52 million dollars have been returned is 14 times less than that declared by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. True, we will find out when we get together. In addition, the Supreme Council was entrusted with the commission of inquiry to verify the legality of the privatisation of Ukristok and Prominestbank. The necessary documentation has been verified from all sides. In the course of the test, there were no legislative violations. It has been established that Prominestbank and Ukristok were created not by privatization, but by equity. Thus, no privatization has taken place and no violations of legislation have been detected. Today, the interim commission of inquiry for the bank "Ukraine" has answered most of the questions it has asked. Most importantly, we have today -- this is the share of the real estate of the Bank of Ukraine, which is in the hold of the National Bank, and it's worth about half a billion dollars. By March 1st of this year, it's leased to the Privatbank. And a week from now, honourable national deputies, fate will have to be decided on the basis of the interests of our state. I thank you, we have made a decision to ban the transfer of property until we can determine what to do with it. Clearly, the liquidator will not be able to maintain such a property complex. It is easy to predict that the spoiling and stretching of this property will begin immediately. For example, we do not need to go far. The Odessa District Master's Court of the Odessa Administration of Greenewecko transferred property to the Bank of Ukraine, which is 43 premises and buildings, the government. In turn, Mr. Greenewecki gave a gift to the local courts by handing them over to the central office of the Bank of Ukraine in the city of Odessa. Such an interesting example is that of law enforcement by those who should do and promote the maintenance of the law on the ground. Similar incidents took place in Kharkiv. This is because the law states that no one has the right to transfer this property. Such incidents of playing with the law are a direct consequence of the fact that, unfortunately, our government doesn't make our decisions with you today, that's the decision, that's the law. We clearly and clearly wrote that during the 10-day period, we had to determine the property of the bank "Ukraine" and it had been over 400 days. Ten days and 400 days, no one makes decisions. The resonant collapse of one of the largest domestic banks has shown both the imperfections of the judicial and executive system and the current legislation in this area. In this regard, the commission sees improvements in existing legislation as one of its activities. One of the problems, Your Honor, is that you and I, as legislative authorities, have legitimized many secrets, including ourselves: banking secrecy, commercial secrecy, a wonderful secret, the secret of investigation. In addition to being positive, these secrets also give rise to uncontrolledness. Regrettably, the darkness of such mysteries is spread, and some important information about those who have led to bankruptcy is the larger banking institution. When the commission asks the liquidator, he'll explain that it won't give us any information about the biggest debtors because there's no law. So, given the absence, I ask you, honourable national deputies, to consider the bill submitted by the commission, where the changes to banks and banking activities are 62rd, 96th, this is also a settlement regarding the property of the Bank of Ukraine. Moreover, honourable national deputies, I am addressing you as the head of the commission, and this has moved me to return to the question of the interim commission of inquiry. It's just a shame to be a member of a commission when everyone says you're an illegal person, you're not answering the law, and we're not giving you any information. And it's our own fault, we can't legalize or create commissions with you, or not create them, but we can't be in that state. The investigating commission is now attempting to collect all the shortcomings of this issue, to bring to your attention drafts that would make it impossible for the process that is taking place here at the Bank of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! We, members of the commission, worry, I think you're concerned, because so many appeals come to the commission both from places, and from people's deputies, it's the third turn of creditors. There are peasant and farm farms, dairy farms, and carnivores, mills, and bakeryes. In this line, educational institutions, budgetary institutions, public organizations, trade unions, sanatoriums, medical facilities. And behind each such legal person are the affected people, the members of the labor groups. Satisfying their legal requirements is the most difficult task, because virtually the only source, I emphasize, is to force the debtors of the bank to repay their loans. Coordination and direction are needed in the same direction as the Henprocurator, the Ministry of Justice, the judiciary, government and banking structures. Look, 50 debtors, 1 billion! And we're told that they've been checking out agriculture for thousands. None of these 50s are officially willing to pay back, and they have 1 billion, waiting for the bankruptcy of the bank to end and no one will present any claims to them. Is there anyone in this room -- look, for example -- who doubts that the former head of the Bank, now the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vladimir Saczek, does not know where his closest assistant is, one of the leaders of the Bank "Ukraine" Mr. Polituha, who has helped them both not only received a bank loan of 25 million dollars for 12 years in 1998? You know, the bank's running out of funding, they're taking this loan for 12 years, but the Polituha himself, he also stole 10 million dollars, and now he's in search and no one knows where he is. I am grateful that you understand what is happening. I am responsibly stating today that this attitude of the law enforcement agencies will lead our authorities to believe that we will not be able to repay the loans. The law on debt settlement to the President of Ukraine proposes to use its constitutional powers to ensure the return of business entities and state-owned loans taken from the Bank of Ukraine. Yet the hope of promoting and effectively controlling this important matter by the President has not been justified. Judge for yourself. The next commission asked the President's Administration what was made of the matter because there was law. We also asked the President to intervene, to use his constitutional powers. We were told, "The Head of State has repeatedly entrusted the government, the National Bank of Ukraine and the law enforcement authorities with the protection of the interests of investors - individuals, the involvement of their debtors in the responsibility and the repayment of their debt to the Bank of Ukraine." At this time these tasks are being carried out and are under the control of the President of Ukraine. In the near future, the President of Ukraine anticipates hearing from the government and the National Bank about the liquidation of the Bank of Ukraine and meeting the legal requirements of its investors," the end of the quote. To remind you that if this was not done in a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a half, if this is not done, then if this is the case, three years will expire and no one will be allowed to listen and ask for money. That's why I'm asking the President of Ukraine to also contribute and use his capabilities to their subordinates to order the liquidation of the Bank of Ukraine. There's nowhere to go, there's no need to look for the bank's debtors and the culprits. Here's what the commission of inquiry has come up with is that the national deputies sitting here in this room are also involved in this, in the issue of these loans. In my time, I call it, the head of the temporary administration of the Bank "Ukraine" was Topalov Viktor Semenovich, the electoral one. 115, now he's an MP. But now, look, when they found out that the bank was going bankrupt, with its help in headquartering, running the Volkov Bank, I apologize, not Volkovi, Saczek Volodymyr was given credits: the Ummanian Warm Cell, the Ukrainian Bank's Trade House, the Interagrosystem, totalling 6.3 million dollars and 9.8 million dollars. And these loans haven't been returned until now, so it's just called seafaring. Therefore, honourable national deputies, the interim commission of inquiry continues its work. Those materials that are coming will help us to focus on the government, the law enforcement system, our deputies in order to get us under control. There's nothing left to organize, we've organized all the commissions, we've organized working groups to control the implementation of our laws. Then I'll be sure, and you'll be sure that the people who are responsible for the collapse of the Bank of Ukraine will be brought to justice legally and the money will be returned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, one minute, let's discuss how we're going to proceed. Because the commission's proposal was just to make a statement and not put it in. Now let's work this out. We'll take 15 minutes to ask you a question. Well, you see, that's fine. Please sign up for the question. Light up on the board, please. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u6	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky, Lvivščina, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear colleague, distinguished deputy general of Ukraine. You know, I'm grateful for the report because I thought you were still this Rusalin, you're not going, I'm very glad for the stormy finale, where you called some specific names and names high. I have after all that I've heard, of course, that we need to get things to the end, but I understand it's not just up to the commission. But the question that you can answer, I think, is now. Every deputy who sits here has been approached by his constituents, because in one way or another, and from what we see, it's going to be a wonderful story, I think, in the eyes of society, one of the largest banks in Ukraine that's turned into nothing. So you're saying there's one and a half billion properties. Yeah? At the same time, there is a debt to our electorate, to our farmers, to the physical person who is 1 billion. There seems to be an opportunity for them to be fully accounted for. What, for example, can I, as a national deputy, do or must I do to meet the demands of my constituents, to pay them off these debts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u7	Thank you. I think that each of us must, first of all, support in the legislative order those laws that will be passed by the interim commission of inquiry, that is, the people's deputies. There, they directly commit themselves to making this procedure transparent, that is, to publish these biggest 50 debtors, it will become clear who is holding the money back and who is not returning it. Secondly, to oblige law enforcement authorities, the state, the government of the state to do what we ask them to do. Look, today, half a billion dollars is not the real estate of the Bank of Ukraine. gave 10 days to determine, we wanted to make a mortgage bank, we wanted another one -- we didn't know, it was stealing. So we think that your support in this direction will be a real contribution to solving this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u8	Oleg Zarubinsky, NDP faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u9	Dear Victor Mikolaiovich, first of all, I would like to draw attention to the first part of the name of the commission of inquiry to find out the reasons behind the financial crisis at the Bank of Ukraine. You know, every day on TV, Magnolia-TV tells us with the mouths of the Highlander, "the wind should be in prison." I understand from your speech that this is completely unrealized, even though the commission has been doing this for a long time, but it's obviously a different expression by John Krilov: which comes out of the hands of thieves, which is why the thief gets hit." I'd like to ask you, it seemed like a non-refundable super-risk loan. Who's to blame? What I want to ask you is that no one was controlling from the state, from Nazbank, what's going on at the biggest commercial bank? I think you should call all the names, you're entitled to it, you're the commission of inquiry. We want to hear today that the slogans that we hear about every day have been implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u10	Thank you. I completely share with you the idea where you say that the big crook, the big thief, in other words, he's not drawn to responsibility, but those numbers that I called them are the shooters, as we say, that they're attracted to. But if we do what we decided yesterday, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, will report to us on the tasks that we have set out: who is involved in the responsibility. I only named those families that are on the committee today. We're not prosecutors. We don't have authority and we don't get information about, yeah, all of them. To date, the Attorney General’s Office has studied, completed all the materials, and must refer the cases to court. Then we learn about those who should be attracted to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u11	Ivan Sidorovich Boki, please, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u12	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, I'd like to ask you a few questions, but I am yielding to this rightful woman, Valentina Petrovni Seminyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u13	Valentina Seminouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u14	Thank you, Ivan Sidorovich. Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u15	Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u16	Mikolaiovich. I have two questions for you. First of all, your information shows that the commission was hard to work because the law on the Temporary Investigation Commissions, which the President did not sign, is not signed. So today the President doesn't want people to know who stole the bank. That's the first question. Is that a yes or a no? I'd like a specific answer. The second question, from your statement, is that money was taken by those near the body, or I'd say it's under patronage. And today those firms that you took, including the deputies of the Supreme Council you called, those firms are booming and they're not returning money. In the end, the people who made the money for the pig and the village council that had the coins, the heat, lost the money for the light. Please tell me if you're going to publish the names of all the deputies and the names of the companies I'm thriving to be able to say, this is your property, we're going to make it happen, and we're going to give people their money back. How do you view it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u17	I'm looking at it positively, and the board members are also looking at it positively, considering that the people who blame the bank on "Ukraine" who got these loans fraudulently, they should, first of all, be punished, secondly, to pay back the money. Regarding the first part of the question. Yes, I confirm that a temporary commission of inquiry cannot work under conditions where no legal status has been defined. And from that, you see, that's the result. And I think in the near future, this is a question that we're going to be deciding with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u18	Mikhailo Pavlovsky, militia of the block of Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u19	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Pavlovsky, the faction of the block of Julia Timoshenko. Two questions. So, as you're saying, Victor Mikolaiovich, because your information, it's kind of hanging out in the air to make a special meeting of the Supreme Council on this issue, to invite the Attorney General's Office, the Attorney General, to invite the President to this meeting, because it's 7 billion dollars and about 7 million people who have suffered. Here, invite the President, look at these questions, ask people to know who cares about people in the country, and who cares about their pockets. So that's the first one. And the second. It still needs your information today, or we can. Today's information is published in the Voice of Ukraine, and it's very specific who's not helping, who's helping, who's preventing this problem from being solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u20	The answer to the first question. We've submitted, the members of the interim commission of inquiry have introduced a draft law, it's given to you, where one of the points is written: to request an answer from the Attorney General, a report, a report here on the Supreme Council, from the Attorney General, from the Supreme Court, from the Minister of Internal Affairs. If you support it, it'll be written in the law and it'll be implemented. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u21	Vladimir. And the second was the question?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u22	About publishing. It's a common phenomenon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u23	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u24	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please pass the word to Matthew Valentine Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u25	By the way, the previous information was published in the media.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u26	Thank you, Volodymyr Tikhovich. Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear Victor Mikolaiovich, aside from the 3-4 names there, let's just say secondary actors in this terrible adventure, but very large-scale action, you haven't called the main ones who developed this scenario to bring such a huge, powerful bank in the past as "Ukraine" to bankruptcy. The investigation today, as we have seen from your words, is going as wet burns, who is to blame? And here my colleagues are asking this question. Who in such a state of affairs is interested first of all? We'd like an answer today. When will your committee that has been working for more than a day say so? And to work, the organization of its activities has spent its budget, Victor Mikolaiovich. So citizens need to know who not only took credit, but who effectively cheated, I repeat, this bank, the Bank of Ukraine, for bankruptcy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u27	Thank you. So the honourable national deputies can only publish what is officially given to them. Today, repeated references, I stress, in writing, oral references to providing information about the largest debtors of the Bank of Ukraine, not just called the firm behind it, but called it according to our requirements, who is the founder of this firm, who is the owner of this firm, who took the loan, who has not returned the term, which is not given by reference to the bank's secret. I think that in the near future, because we've adopted changes to some laws, where transparency in banking should be, where we're opening up our overseas financial institutions, we're opening up the whole secret, maybe we'll open up this so-called secret about the past of a bank that no longer exists. So in this bill, you'll read, we're again forcing the National Liquidator Bank to publish. As soon as they're published, the commission will start doing your job. It's your will, you can do it, you'll support this law, we'll do what you put in front of me. And I'd be very happy if we could do it in a short time. You don't need anything anymore. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u28	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u29	Thank you. Victor Mikolaiovich, for the first time in years in the Supreme Council, I hear more or less specific information without politics, without hysteria, about the work carried out by the commission of inquiry. But still, you have to understand that this question remains, and it's going to be standing before us all the time, you're either not approaching it, or you're consciously not approaching it. I mean, I want to ask you in the development of the question of Zarubinsky and Matviev colleagues and remind you that this is the commission of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Victor Souslow, who reported all the possible abuses in the Nazbank environment, called the names of the leadership and called possible financially sad consequences. You're telling us the theft mechanism, the founding company, and so on. We ask you, did you have a chance to question those high-ranking officials of the National Bank of Ukraine who had a specific task of controlling the Bank of Ukraine, did you speak to them about the explanations you got from them? That's the first question. And the second question. Are there any cases for today in court?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u30	Thank you for asking. The previous reports of our commission inform you of those who have been summoned to board meetings. They were both leaders and former prime ministers, and the head of the National Bank, Victor Yushchenko, and all the others who answered all the questions of the national MPs. This has been informed, you can pick up the transcripts that were before. And I would also like to say that the commission and the previous commission, and this commission, insists on the transparency of the investigation of the Bank of Ukraine. We have a report from the Attorney General's Office, Minister of the Interior. Who are they testing? Why they don't check out the 50 biggest debtors and why the result of their checks is 4-3.5 percent. If you support the law, it clearly says, "provide." And then I'm going to be with you to evaluate the results of their activities not according to the reports, you see, which is 14 times less. More than reality, then you and I can answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u31	National MP Homutinnik, please. It's a faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u32	Please pass the word "Peklushenko."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u33	People's MP Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u34	Dear Victor Nikolayevich! Victor Nikolayevich! As a member of the commission, I would like to begin by thanking you for the work you are personally doing, and for the positive results that the Commission has, much thanks to your design. At the same time, I would like to comment on your report today. Why do you not inform your colleagues and voters that of the 16 members of the Commission, 60 per cent of the members of the Commission do not attend meetings, while they have registered? Please inform the faction leaders and let them take action. At the same time, in sharing the view of colleagues that the question of "who is to blame?" I'd still like to pay more attention to the question of what to do?".. How do you feel about our commission meeting Prime Minister Yanukovic? We at Slavyanski Bank found that when Yanukovic took on such problems, the results did not make him wait. That's the first question. And the second question. How do you view the importance of the issue of listening to the report of the Commission at our meetings each month?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u35	I fully share your point of view, I know your involvement in the work of the commission, and therefore I now appeal to the faction leaders that delegated people to the work of the commission to monitor their work and let them inform you in factions, because there are times when there is no quorum of the commission. There are times when we cannot make a decision because for various reasons there are no deputies. Therefore, I believe that faction leaders, given the importance of the task before the Commission, will commit their representatives to work more effectively and more carefully on the Commission. This time. Second. I fully support and, if the members of the commission support, we will plan a meeting with the Prime Minister, especially as the meeting is essential. A half-billion dollars of bracelets should be secured for the benefit of the State and not for the benefit of new fraudsters.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, time is up. I'd like that. What, what? Just a minute. Dear colleagues, time is up. I just wish that we, well, we'd be talking for an hour, we wouldn't be running out of questions. Dear colleagues, I would just like to ask the head of the commission for the support of the Supreme Council to return the property to the Supreme Council, to the Supreme Council on the Rilsky Way, it's 70 rooms taken away, and then passed on to the unknown authority in the last days, and in order to get us back, we'll solve the problems of material areas. That's the first one. The other one. I think we need to prepare, ask and entrust the commission to prepare a decision, even an interim one, in which we can clearly identify proposals so that they have a form of commitment, what we need to do, how we should listen to these questions when we have appropriate hearings. That's why we need to get out of the fact that respected colleagues who trust in power and the state in general, sociologists say, were lost after the loss of people's savings and after the bankruptcy of banks, including the Bank of Ukraine. So this is a much deeper question we need to look at. Thank you. Please have a seat. A draft law on the representation of Ukraine abroad is being announced for consideration. I invite you to report to Vitalia Jakovitch Šibka. Please, Vitaly Yakovich. Secretary of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, the draft Ukrainian Law on Representation of Ukraine abroad is being submitted in accordance with article 85 and 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and in drafting this bill, I have come out of my own experience. The development of multilateral cooperation between Ukraine and the world’s societies and international organizations requires the permanent representation of state and non - state organizations abroad. According to official data provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on September 4, 2002, there are some 90 diplomatic representations. Their activities are carried out in accordance with international instruments, which are the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 18 April 1961, the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations of 24 April 1963, the Convention on Special Missions of 8 December 1969, and the Vienna Convention on the Representation of States in Their Relations with International Organizations of a Universal Attitude of 14 March 1975. Moreover, the issue is governed by Ukraine’s regulations. I mean the decrees of the President of Ukraine, the positions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the orders of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. By the way, I call these normative documents. This is an order issued by the President of Ukraine to approve a diplomatic representation position abroad on 22 October 1992, a decree issued by the President of Ukraine on the approval of a position on a commercial and economic mission in Ukraine's diplomatic representation abroad on 30 April 1994 and an order issued by the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine and the State Administration of Ukraine to approve a temporary position on the procedure for granting commercial and economic missions in the form of diplomatic representation of Ukraine abroad in favour of the Ukrainian National Tax Administration on 3 November 2000. In view of this adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Representation of Ukraine abroad has been called upon, first of all, by the absence of relevant legislation, as well as the need for further dissemination of Ukraine's representation abroad, the creation of favourable conditions for the expansion of trade and economic and scientific and technical cooperation and cultural relations. The adoption of this law will create the necessary legal basis for foreign representations and will cancel a number of legal and regulatory provisions to secure diplomatic representation abroad. The law consists of the following basic provisions: legal representation of Ukraine abroad, diplomatic representation of Ukraine, permanent representation of Ukraine in an international organization, consular institutions of Ukraine abroad, missions of Ukraine abroad, means diplomatic, special trade, economic missions, financing of activities of Ukraine's representatives abroad, regulation of the granting of premises for representation abroad and taxation of activities of representatives abroad. The new provisions contained in the bill are: First. For the first time at the legislative level, equal status is provided for the ranks of diplomatic representatives of Ukraine and the heads of permanent representations of Ukraine in international organizations. This is an essential complement to the legislative base, because there is some misunderstanding in practice about the seniority of such diplomatic representatives. The other one. Also, for the first time, a legislative effort has been made to secure the use of land and premises. The status of the trade mission and the trade representative has been distinguished. The report of the head of diplomatic representation abroad for funds is passed under this bill through Kabmin. When it comes to financing and economic justification, it should be said that the adoption of the law does not require additional financial costs from the State Budget of Ukraine. The adoption and entry into force of the Ukrainian Law on the Representation of Ukraine abroad will contribute to the clear use of budgetary costs to maintain representation and provide the necessary regulatory basis for financing special temporary missions, as well as to separate the status of commercial representatives and legal persons. As you know, a conclusion was added to the bill on the draft law on Ukraine's representation abroad. It is signed by the head of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of Matsuk, where there is such a general conclusion that, based on the conclusion, we believe that the draft Ukrainian Law on Representation of Ukraine abroad can be adopted as a basis in the first reading, taking into account comments and suggestions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u38	Thank you. Please sign up for the questions. Light up, please. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. The next one is Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u39	Yuri Karsmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Your Honor, I am deeply grateful that you have introduced this bill, but, at the same time, please tell me, you predict, that you want to introduce everything that was in the President's decrees and in positions and so on, you want to put everything into the legislative field and, at the same time, leave the splinters in the same way as in article 2, other things that are not regulated by this law, other legal acts -- you write. Don't you think it's necessary, after all, to throw all of this out in other legislation, and to define everything exclusively by law, and to reinforce, including, parliamentary control over this activity? And there's a way to write, in particular, a unit of parliament like the Committee on Euro-Inclusion and the Committee on International Affairs. They're not listed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. I agree with you on that point. But, as you know, you can't save up for anything. And I think if there's any help from you on this issue, I'll take it so that we can work out this law together. Although, you know, this is where the Constitution works. [[about the last in your query]] So we need to know who today is affecting the work of representation abroad. And if we run counter to the Constitution, of course there will be no law. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u41	Olga Hinzburg, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u42	Thank you. Hinzburg, 161 constituency. First, I'm Vitaly Yakovich about what I didn't get to say on the first question. So, of course, in the district as you arrive, they're always asking questions about the village councils that the bank "Ukraine" owed, and I want to say that, if they took the district administrations and collected how much in every area they owed the bank "Ukraine." And they initiated this problem when they solved the issue of the return of this money, not just the MPs. That's what I'm here to hear. And to you, Vitalia Yakovich, I have this question. Please tell me the law that you are currently considering whether there is such a problem because of the solution to this issue of citizenship will be considered not to be accumulated only in Ukraine, I am not interested in that in other countries, but in our Ukraine through these representative bodies that we are currently considering, consular, there are trade, there are others, there are others, there are others. It's either lit up or not. Because it's a problem we can't solve on our own without interference.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u43	You mean our citizens abroad, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u44	Yes, abroad, I am personally interested in Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u45	You know, I'm personal, he's already registered, he's passed a bill on businesses that employ our citizens abroad. He's already registered, so I think he'll be listening here soon. It's not about that, it's just strictly about representation abroad.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u46	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u47	Thank you. Vitali Yakovic, I have a question that concerns one aspect of your bill, but there will be much to this aspect of the success of your law in the session room. You probably know that those industries that are working on the external market today are filling the budget with a lot of money, and they're left alone in the cruel world of international competition. Moreover, competitors have both legal and political support. So please tell me, to what extent is the bill aimed at helping businesses, because you have, please see article 6, where the functions of diplomatic representation to be carried out by a trade mission are encouraged to develop economic cooperation. Now, look at the position on the trade-economic mission that was approved by the President on April 30, 1994. This mission represents and protects the country of residence, Ukraine’s interests in the field of external economic activity. In general, the bill is certainly timely, it needs to be supported, but do you not think it is necessary to strengthen this particular note, a note protecting Ukraine's interests abroad.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u48	Thank you for asking. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u49	Andrew Schlell, please, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u50	Dear reporter, well, first of all, really, I also support all the previous speakers who have asked the question that the law is necessary, but there are some nuances here. Well, especially, I'd like to. I hope that this bill finally regulates this inequality in relations. I mean, how many Russian consular offices in Ukraine, and how many Ukrainians in Russia? And the failure to discover the necessary Embassy of Ukraine in Australia, there are quite a number of citizens and so on. And the second question, I want to ask, here is not clear enough, I agree with Matsuk, written property issues, i.e. land and buildings that will belong to Ukrainian consulates and representations. And that's very important, because as soon as I get back from Norway, there's a problem with getting land in this country for the embassy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u51	I think you're right, and that's an important addition. We'll take it into account when we're working on the draft for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u52	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u53	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Actually, I'd like to say that there's something going on here: a very important bill, and the committee puts five minutes on questions and answers. It's not clear that we can make it here. Well, that's none of your business. Dear reporter, I would like you to answer this question: what are the innovations that you have in the laws on Ukraine's international treaties, the law on diplomatic service and other normative legislation? The first moment, maybe the secretary of state will answer that question. And second moment. In your bill, you have the task of representing Ukraine abroad. The Vienna Convention is not about the task but about the functions. At the same time, I'd like to offer you. Tasks and functions are different things. Why not prepare and understand what you consider to be the tasks of these representations and what are direct functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u54	You know, the Vienna Convention has some guidelines first. And we make our laws imperative. That is, we set out tasks that should be done according to our legislation. That's the first one. At the beginning of your question, I would like to say that, above all, innovations are envisaged here, as you say, is equal to the status of heads of diplomatic representation in Ukraine and heads of permanent representations in Ukraine in international organizations. I want to emphasize again. This is an essential complement to the legislative base, because in practice, you know, there's a misunderstanding about this, and very often. And for the first time, there is an attempt to enforce the law on land use and housing. Today, this is not regulated in the relevant decrees. And that's what's important. That the report of the head of diplomatic representation on the use of funds goes through Kabmin. It's important. I can only name a few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u55	Rephat Chubarov, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u56	Dear Vitalia Yakovich! So when I'm abroad, it doesn't matter, either by ship, or in my personal affairs, I usually put the embassy of the country in question about what I'm here. I mean, I'm calling, saying, "Hello, I'm so popular, I'm in this country." And then the questions go, "What are your problems?" - I'm saying, "Thank you, I don't have a problem, I just want you to know that I'm here." And then I say goodbye. But at the same time, I find joy in the diplomats that I don't have any problems with them. I found that interesting. I then asked some diplomats, and I heard stories like this when some people come to office, they come in on personal matters, and they put their problems before diplomats, including their personal nature, and diplomats have to respond somehow. I want to ask you. In some ways, this law regulates the rights and responsibilities or obligations of diplomats in relation to officials who charge diplomats with uncharacteristic tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u57	I think so. Well, that's not the law. Thank you for such a question, but you should know that a polite diplomat will always take care of the problems that a Ukrainian citizen is facing abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u58	Thank you, Vitaly Yakovich. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Let's get to the discussion. We've got a committee to discuss there for 10 minutes. Yuri Karmazin, get ready, Matviyenkowa. I'd like to ask you very briefly, we have many more questions to consider today, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u59	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Clearly, this law is timely. Once again, I would like to thank Mr. Šibk for preparing him, but at the same time, I would like us to work on his third reading. Worked on that. Plans, first of all, are consistent with the Constitution. In particular, I see that in article 2 of this law you should add a signature before the word "international treaties of Ukraine" write as in article 9 of the Constitution the "existing international treaties of Ukraine which are binding on the Supreme Council of Ukraine". This will be in full compliance with the Constitution, and then there will be no cases that we had in Sevastopol when international agreements were being implemented that were completely not approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Moreover, the gas consortium is once again implementing agreements that are not approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and are serious problems and, knowing that Yuri Anatoliyevich, who is present today, the Secretary of State is a great professional on this issue, I would like to point out that in Parliament these issues are being investigated and we consider this to be a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and would not want this to be allowed. Article 32 provides for a report on Ukraine’s diplomatic representation abroad. Thank God she sees it coming. It is only necessary to limit clearly the framework that no later than 1 February of the following year provides a written report on all expenses and so on so that what has happened to us in China, where, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, not even your fellow family member, has disgraced the state of Ukraine. How? They pretended, they recruited Mercedes, they pretended, and the Chinese laughed, and the whole diplomatic world laughed, except the Ukrainian parliamentarians didn't report the help. I'd like to be informed, as well as informed, who appointed such ambassadors, who will disgrace the state of Ukraine, how we spend our expenses abroad, how we buy such representations and treats as used today by Mrs. Susanna Stanik abroad. Let's see, that's all labor money. In general, the fact that the law answers and refers to the Vienna Convention on State Representation in Their Relations with International Organizations is very positive. I would like it to be written here, too, which is not like in the 12th article, is the main representative, but is the representative of Ukraine in the state, and to be sure that there should be a flag, it should be in the representation of the Herb of Ukraine and it is totally inappropriate there in a position such as the President or someone else, it is the representation of the State abroad, not the Qutsministan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u60	National MP Sergei Matvienkov, European Choice Group. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u61	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear colleagues! The law is indeed necessary and we are particularly faced with these situations when our fellow countrymen, our colleagues, are in a very difficult situation. I'm going to give you a really fresh example. On 31 January 2003, at the exit of the Turkish port of Hopa, the Maksim Rylsky Hotline, owned by the State Azov Maritime Agency Inflot, was injured in storm conditions by left rudder and screw, which posed a serious danger to the vessel. As a result of the accident, water was filtered into the engine room. The captain of the vessel decided to proceed to the nearest basic dock repair of Tuapsa in Russia or, at best, to the port of Kerch. The decision was taken on the basis of the United Nations Convention and the Law of the Sea, adopted in 1982 and ratified by the Parliament of the Republic of Georgia in 1998. This convention determines the right to pass peacefully through the territorial waters of any coastal State by any ship that will not disturb peace and good order and the security of the coastal State. In the hope that the coastal services of a friendly Ukraine State could provide assistance if necessary, a course of four miles from the coastline along the Black Sea Coast of the Caucasus was chosen. Within an hour and a half, the vessel was stopped by Georgian border boats and 7 miles from the port of Batumi. Convinced that there were no prohibited calls for objects and persons on board, the master of the border boat invited the vessel to follow the voyage of the port of Batumi, where the vessel was so far. Georgia has imposed arrests and penalties on the vessel. Despite the intervention of Inflot to the Minister of State of Georgia, the Head of State Department for the Protection of the State Border of Georgia, the Chief of Maritime Administration of Georgia, the Ambassador of Ukraine to Georgia, the Consul of Ukraine to Georgia. The issue of the release of the vessel has not been resolved so far. The application was referred to the court in Batumi. However, the date of its consideration has not yet been set. Even the conclusion of the maritime administration of Georgia, which determined the captain's actions in the event of an emergency of a ship, in accordance with article 61 of the Maritime Code of Georgia and the International Law of the Sea, did not take effect on the State Department for the Protection of the Border. While the Georgian Maritime Administration considers that the acts of coastguard in the circumstances of force majeure are not justified, they are of a formal nature that does not take into account the circumstances of the incident, the vessel continues to be arrested. In view of the length of the parking, the continuous filtration of water into the engine room, a catastrophic situation has arisen due to the impossibility of further accumulation of oil water. The acceptable tanks intended for the accumulation of oil water are filled. Further intake may only be directly by partial flooding of the engine compartment. What am I talking about? The Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is here today. I urge you to take control of this issue, because there are people living there, so to speak, our equipment and I ask you to take urgent measures to resolve this issue. Thank you. I request that my statement be considered an official parliamentary request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u62	Thank you. I ask the Secretariat to prepare a formal appeal to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, if necessary, to the Parliament of Georgia. Please, Andrew School, get ready to play.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u63	Thank you. Well, of course, I'd like to say a few words first of all in the essence of the law. The law is necessary and, indeed, all we need to do here is strengthen: (a) the role Parliament in this law, and (b) more clearly, the main thing is to write more clearly and regulate Ukraine's right to land abroad. Such problems of land acquisition are, and are constantly faced by diplomats, and so are problems with the premises. The property of the land as a Ukrainian property is also very important outside as the constant work of representation is caused by certain conditions. This is a normal house, a house that's built, not rented, which is more comfortable and comfortable. In view of Ukraine’s loss of colossal property abroad in view of the still unresolved issue between Ukraine and Russia, the fact that Russia is the successor of the Soviet Union is causing constant problems. But nevertheless, I would like to stress that this bill does not need budget spending. It is unfortunate that budget spending is not needed because Ukraine’s representation abroad needs constant support. Of course, it is difficult to live in a country that is poor and miserable, has a poor and unhappy nation, but we must choose: either we have representation abroad and we protect our citizens who are there, and we have them worthy, or we do not have, we refuse. Because, frankly, sometimes it's embarrassing to go to Ukrainian representation abroad. When, until recently, two or four years ago, I came in looking for a long time at first, and then I found the Ukrainian Embassy in Belgrade, and frankly, it looked strange. Thanks to God, she has moved, and conditions have improved, both in the important and important country of the Ukrainian embassies. Next, I would like to stop at the need for constant balance of interests and needs. And in particular, the relationship between Australia and Ukraine. Well, Australia doesn't need an embassy in Ukraine, but the Ukrainian Embassy in Australia is necessary, because there are enough Ukrainians who live there after their origins and there is a huge need to facilitate the relationship between Ukrainians and Australians if the relationship between Ukraine and Australia is unnecessary. And the same situation, by the way, is with Norway: there is a Norwegian Embassy in Ukraine, and there is no Ukrainian Embassy in Norway. That is, Norway’s positive attitude toward Ukraine is highlighted and Norway is not understood. And I'm glad that such a bill is, and I'd like it to go as fast as possible. And first reading, because you have to add certain supplements to make this law more important and authoritative, and the Supreme Council in this law is represented more prominently and more authoritatively. And I am convinced that it will contribute to the development of international relations between Ukraine and the rest of the States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u64	Oleg Grachev from the committee, please. First Deputy Head of the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u65	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting considered the bill very carefully, and it unanimously supported the adoption of the first reading. Many previous speakers said that there was a need to complete or change it. We will be able to do all of this, and we will do so in preparation for the second reading. And once again, I would like you to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're finalizing the matter. Yuri Anatoliyovich, does the MCC not object to us adopting such a law? Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u67	Very short. Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, thank you, Vitaliy Yakovich, and very grateful to all those who speak, because all the issues that have been raised are extremely relevant. Each of them needs to be made clear in this law. We support the very idea of this law, we support its adoption in the first reading on the basis that it will be a complement to the Law on Diplomatic Service, issues that have not been addressed or non-systemic. There are certain editorial and legal inaccuracies that we will settle and contribute to the copyright group and the working group that is working on it. That's why we support the idea -- in the first reading, we want to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u68	Thank you. The draft Law on the Representation of Ukraine abroad has been considered and the decision will be taken on the day of the vote. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Special Investment and Innovation in Technology Parks on the creation of the Eco-Ukraine Environmental Technology Park is being announced for consideration. Igor Raphailovich, please. You have five minutes. If it is smaller, we will be grateful.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u69	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. The Supreme Council is being reviewed by the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Special Regime for Investment and Innovation of Technology Parks for the purpose of creating a new technology park called "ECO-Ukraine" and amending the Law on Added Cost Taxes and the Law on Business Income Taxation. There are now nine technology parks in Ukraine. 8 technology parks operate under the Special Investment Activities Act, which will be the ninth technology park. And there's also another technology park in the special economic zone of the Maple, which is an integral part of this area. The Committee on Science and Education examines the work of technology parks and closely monitors the results of technology parks. A recent meeting of the committee at Patton’s Institute was held to address the pressing problems of technology parks. The basic ideology of the existence of parks is so. First. As a result of the integration of the organizations into the fleets, the inflows to the State and Local Budgets cannot be reduced, that is, those authorities that were in the State and Local Budget prior to the establishment of the plant cannot be smaller after its entry. The other one. Technology parks in this regard can have both an innovative and an investment theme. The committee then proposes to create a non-stately independent scientific board of technoparks that will finally decide whether to acquire a particular subject or organization as a participant in a technology park. The Council is to be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Technology projects should be printed in the media. The Cabinet of Ministers is setting up a supervisory board at the head of this case with Vice Prime Minister Dmitr Tobacco. The technology park that we're talking about right now is a special technology park called ECO-Ukraine. In Ukraine there are particularly polluted areas: Donetska, Dnipropetrovska, Zaporzikka, and Lviv. And the creation of a technology park that you would know about waste and waste management in those particular areas and other areas of Ukraine is problem number one. What is part of the technology park? Technology will deal with such important problems as the introduction of new technologies for waste disposal. In particular, it is now about creating a joint for Donetsk, Makiyevka, and Yasnovata's new, modern garbage dump with the complete disposal of garbage. The second question that's extremely important to Donbas is the treatment of sewage with further supply or secondary contours, or, for example, the production of water from already drinking water and water supply. In the Donetsk region, it is known that in one year the waste of 700 million meters [700 million m] of cubic sewage is dumped. For example, this is almost one cubic kilometer of sewage. And for example, I want to tell you, if we were to bring down all the reservoirs that were built on Dniper, we would have three cubic kilometers of water. Now you can imagine what a huge amount of sewage is in the Donbas district. One ton of coal is about eight cubic feet [8 cubic m] of liquid water. The problem of dunging and poisoning the soil of Donbas is enormous, especially in connection with the closure of mines. Now the mines are closing and they're just filling up with water. This is about water penetration into aquifers, other mines. That's problem number one. Next problem. An important problem for Ukraine is the processing of polyethylene tetraphthalate. This plastic substance is used to produce bottles of various consumer products. Problem number one. Lead-acid battery problem, problem of worn-out cars. In a word, these problems are now gaining a lot in Ukraine, and the creation of such a technology park is very timely. In this regard, I appeal to the honourable Supreme Council, to you, honourable deputies, to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u70	Dear colleagues! Any questions to Igor Raphaelovich? Please sign up. Five minutes to ask. Please point it on the board. Jaroslav Suhi, please, the faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u71	Thank you. Igor Rafailovich, please tell us in the explanatory note to the law on the decision-making committee and in your statement that this bill is based on the need to address the very important issues of security and environmental reproduction for Donbas. I have the first question for you. How do problems like disposal, solid waste storage, submerged, and so on in Donbas differ from the same problems in Lugansk, Dnipropetrovsk, Zaporozhye, particularly in Stepnoir, where the mines of margantian ore are flooded, and you know that they are harmful ores? I mean, why doesn't this law apply to all the problems in the territory? And the second question. Please tell me if you have calculated the possible financial consequences of tax benefits being extended to subsidiaries and joint ventures. I mean, a number of combinations and factories. What can this lead to? What effect could this have on our State Budget? And lastly, Igor Raphaelovich, such a remark. In this way, the House will not support a bill that deals specifically with one territory, not the whole of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u72	It's about the first question. In general, the technology park is called ECO-Ukraine, but each technology park has its own company and organization that joins the technology park, according to the contract. So these organizations can be practically all over Ukraine. But the technology park has to be localized as a legal person in a certain place. Donbass, the Donetsk region was the first to take the initiative in such a technology park. It's already been said that I was approached about what could be done in the Dnipropetrovsk district and so on. I think we're creating one ECO-Ukraine technology park. Now the Donetsk administration was the initiator of this technology park, and we're creating it. But businesses that can be part of it can be located all over Ukraine. It's about the first question. As to the second question. It's part of a technology park. It's really an organization. But they're part of a technology park, not as an organization, but as a technology park theme, some kind of development. Involvement of the development in the composition of the technology parks is included under only two conditions. First. The organization, which is included in a developmental technology park, does not reduce its payments to the State and local budgets as a result of the inclusion of the topic in the technology park. The theme included in the technology park is either an additional innovation or an additional investment theme. Regarding the third question, I forgot.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u73	That was two questions. There'll be a third. Michael Pavlovsky will set up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u74	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Igor Raphailovich, it's very good that you forgot that you're not at the scientific council on the Supreme Council, but you've turned to the scientific council, so as a scientist I'm asking you a question. Please tell me that I wanted this to sound, and for the hall, you might want to point out in this law that the technologies that will be developed on specific subjects should be applied to businesses in all of Ukraine. Thank you. How do you view it?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u75	Michael Antonovich, you're such a smart professor that I don't even have to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u76	Yes, please, Vladimir Julius Pehota, European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u77	I ask you to pass the word to Potapov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u78	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u79	Igor Rafailović, you all know and the deputies know what problems we face in the implementation of the budget we have already adopted. Here's all the material that we're looking at today, and you're basically describing the text: explanations, explanations, evidence, beliefs and absolutely no normal, maybe small, but calculations. The 2004 budget, which we are already starting today, let us say so, to prepare, says that we can hardly achieve the values that we have adopted this year. And here's the bill that you're proposing is causing a very serious fallout from the income line and from the local and state budgets. Do you think it's right to submit a bill at all without very clear, solid calculations?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u80	You know, your point is correct. And the calculations are right in front of me. Calculations for each individual subject that is offered by the technology park. But the principle of a technology park should be the following. As a result of the integration of the topic into the technology park, the amount of payments to the state and local budgets of the organization does not decrease. So what's going on in the technology park is an extra job before what was done in the organization. Therefore, it is not necessary to think that the inclusion of a particular topic in a technology park will lead to a reduction in financial revenues in the state and local budgets. And this principle of not reducing revenue as a result of entering a technology park, not reducing revenue to the state and local budgets, this principle should be followed in organizing a technology park. On every subject, we do have calculations. And so for the second reading, we're going to present these calculations on the topics that go to the Eco-Ukraine technology park.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u81	Thank you, Igor Raphaelovich, time is up. Let's move on to the discussion. We have a committee to discuss for 10 minutes. Yuri Carmazin, please. Prepare Solomon. I'd like to ask you, dear colleagues, economically. We have seven more bills to consider. At least let's talk about it. Why don't we take a break at 1:00? There's no objection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u82	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Volodymira Mikhailovich, Honorable People of Ukraine. Once again, we are offered to make separate benefits in a separate city, for individual people. Reverend Igor Raphaelovich, I am very sorry that your authority is taken and used now. And it's going to be, we have a Seminomist technology park, you know, that's what we call it. That's what they say in the people, in industrial circles, in the name of Seminomist. Now there'll be a technopark called Tobacco-Janukovich. Well, that's what this tech park is going to be called, and we're going to be absolutely honest when we talk and analyze. How have the existing technology parks worked? And look at you. I had this hair lift that was left when I saw that it turns out that the objects of the technology we hid from taxation were the wings on the car "Volga" being shipped from the Russian Federation to Crimea. And there's a lot of other know-how that's scary to talk about. We've freed all of this from taxation. These are tech parks. We've already reached the highest level. I wanted us to make Ukraine a big tech park. But we will never make it if we promote such framework laws. What's more, this law you're proposing, Eco-Ukraine, to extend to it the tax benefits of paying the added value tax and income tax provided for by law. You offer to reduce the budget’s income in connection with the adoption of this law, but not to mention how much the budget is planned to cut. What you're talking about is the financial results of the projects you've put in the appendix, I've studied carefully. This, I'm sorry, is written in water, these calculations. And the budget losses will be today. And other businesses are going to die today because they can't handle a competitive fight because they don't have such open lobbyists. So I would ask all the national MPs, I'm asking the government, I'm asking the government to report here on the activities of all free economic zones free of law. And all the tech parks. And stop making some separate zones under individual people! This is the dissolution of the state of Ukraine. Let us make sure that all the fine conditions are for all subjects of business activity in Ukraine so that they do not have to benefit from the personal name of someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u83	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u84	Yuri Solomatin, Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster Dear colleagues, on our committee, this bill has been discussed in such a lively manner. And I want to inform you on the key issues that have attracted our attention. First of all, it's that there's a series of technologies involved, a whole series of research institutes -- 16, 13 metallurgical and chemical combinations, eight limited- and unlimited-responsibility societies, and some other structures. So we've got this impression, maybe it's a mistake, that this is the black hole, that some money pump is supposed to work on money laundering. If we are wrong, we would like to see the members of the profile committee correct our impression. That's why we have this proposal: where we're talking about, in a bill that during the introduction of a special regime of investment and innovation in technology parks, taxes on the income of taxpayers of technology parks. Attention, further: Their children's and joint ventures are dealt with by taking into account the features set out in the Ukrainian Law on Special Investment and Innovation in Technology Parks. We consider it appropriate and useful, or in this law that we are currently discussing, or in the law on the special regime of investment and innovation in technology parks to make such an observation, such an addition: such benefits are added if appropriate, including environmental issues, in the programmes of such structures, parks and organizations that are included, are at least two thirds of the cost of such a program. Only in this case can we be sure that it will work for the benefit of what is defined in the title of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u85	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Player.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u86	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I don't share that negative attitude towards the idea of technology parks that was expressed in this rostrum. Of course, any idea can be discredited. And we're doing it successfully. This may be what we can do most successfully. But this does not mean that right, constructive ideas should be denied. On the contrary, we need to think about how these ideas are organized and financially implemented for the benefit of the cause. That's the difference between my approach to this topic and the one that sounded here and the idea itself. I agree that in many ways we distort the idea. So let's fight the distortions of the idea, not the idea itself. Technology parks are not black holes, they're economic growth points. And this is evidenced by world experience. We only have nine tech parks, we have 270 in the United States. If this was a bad idea, why would they use it in themselves? And in many other countries. There's world experience, let's study world experience. That's the first one. Secondly, moving to an innovation and investment model is not possible without technology parks. It's just points of growth, including technological, it's a technological breakthrough, it's an opportunity to get to a new technological level, and then pull everyone else to it. I understand Deputy Carmazin, who said, "Let's turn all of Ukraine into technology parks." That would be wonderful. But if we can't do this right now, maybe we should do it at some point and then pull all of Ukraine to this level. And thirdly, this particular park. It's about going to the green economy. This is the perspective that the whole world is looking for right now, the green economy. And this is the technology park, this is ECO-Ukraine, the environmental technology park, and that's where it's all about. And finally. It's not about the benefits, it's about the benefits, it's not the holes in the budget, it's not the tech park, it's not the holes in the budget, it's not reducing the revenue to the budget. On the contrary, if the technology park works properly, it will ensure an increase in revenue to the budget. I think that in the first reading of the bill you can adopt and work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u87	Oleg Grachev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u88	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. In my speech, I wanted to continue with the topicalization of the discovery of technology 9 and 1 by ecologicality, all the more in the ecologically dangerous region of Donbas. But in connection with the speeches made by the honourable deputies, Karmazin and others, I'll say that the creation of a technology park does not have anything to do with the decline in government budget revenues. First of all, the adoption of this law is the granting of the right of a technology park to operate in a special mode of innovation. The special regime is that the technology park has the right to conduct an innovative project through a commission created by the government of Ukraine. During the project period and only after the project works, the technology park accumulates in a special account that is opened by a technology park, the value added tax and the income tax on the work, services and production of the project. The cost of this special account is used exclusively, and I emphasize the scientific and technological and innovation activities and the development of the technical base of the plant. It's different. Works for technology projects are new jobs that won't be done if this technology park isn't there. So the technology park initiates new jobs, creates new jobs, and increases the social funds accordingly. So I support this bill, and I invite all MPs to support it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u89	Victor Mironenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u90	Deputies! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I agree with those who are concerned, as if they were the technology parks of the hole that has been discussed. I share this concern with regard to the areas of priority development of BSEs. However, I would like to say to these distinguished colleagues. But you can't do that. Look, I've already talked about this. In China, why is the development of priority development areas, BSEs, still under development. Why do they have tech parks? Why is the economy growing rapidly there? Is it just because the communist agenda or is the law still working? Perhaps well-respected colleagues should pay attention to this. And we all say that crime is so high, stealing comes. And we're not doing anything to stop the theft. I say this to those who themselves should have done this theft, but they have done nothing so much in this regard. Second. Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to the following. In Soviet power, in socialism, the Soviet Union took first place in the world in the number of inventions. Ukraine in the Soviet Union is first among the republics in the number of inventions. Indeed, we did not have those we could boast about. In particular, the continuous spill became, you know, we were created, invented, and it was introduced much better in Japan and so on. But we understand, there was a strong State budget, we had to develop entrepreneurship, public, collective, private enterprises and not destroy socialism and union, but also develop alliances and socialism. Now we have turned our backs: theft, destruction of everything in the past, privatization. As a result, the budget is negligible and we say, well, there is no way to provide substantial assistance with money and benefits of refusing. What are we thinking, respectable colleagues? This is the friend who. The one I was talking to, he must have realized it was his address. Please think. About what? What are you talking about? Let us address specific issues, develop the economy, improve the environmental situation in the country, rather than speak beautiful words from this rostrum, 11 years of which the people are only worse off. When you were commended, I gave you a letter, and they commended you. You do well. What's the point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u91	Let's get this over with. Igor Raphaelovich. Please turn on the microphone. Yukhnovsky. Very tight, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u92	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to make literally a few remarks about the speeches of the honourable deputies. What Deputy Carmazin is saying is bad about Monocrystally technology, which he called "Seminozynka technology park," and this techno park "ECO-Ukraine" as "the tobacco and Yanukovich technology park" is not entirely fair. Indeed, Monocrystal technology is one of the most outstanding technology parks in Ukraine. Those monocrystics that they grow, they actually go around the world as synthesizing crystals, like crystals for modern devices and this technology park actually has its own specific production. With regard to the tobacco and Janukovich technology park, the tobacco industry had nothing to do with it, but Janukovic was the head of the Donetsk district administration, and he really included a lot of the scientific organizations that Deputy Solomon was talking about, but I think that's the right thing to do. So that all of these organizations, which are working very hard on the Donetsk Environmental Protection System, should be involved. I think that everyone needs to understand one thing -- the technology park means new production, new investment, price innovation. It's an extra product. And the creation of this additional product does not do any harm to what was in Ukraine's budget, so the technology needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u93	Thank you. Michael Pavlovsky of procedure, please. You've been named for good motives, good motives. Please don't set a precedent.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u94	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear friends, we have a misunderstanding here because it's not clear enough, not everyone has fully realized what a technology park and its working conditions are. So I would like to ask, Igor Rafailovich, that your committee prepare such an explanatory note and, we have distributed among the MPs what is a technology park, a general position. That's the first one. The other one. I'd like to say so objectively that Monocrystal technology really works. One trouble is Seminomist, he created obstacles to the creation of new technology parks. That's his trouble. So today we need to grow technology. And what I'm saying is, most of the technology parks today are in China, not the United States. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u95	Thank you. 30 seconds. Turn on Karmazin's microphone, or we won't move any further. Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u96	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. In view of what was called my last name and the misinterpretation of my position, I would like the national MPs and the people of Ukraine to understand. I'm asking just one, I'm asking the government to give us information about the activities and consequences of the activities of the technology parks that have already been created. I'm going to give you some other information to show you how it looks like vehicles, where it's being used, and how it shows. I think it's going to sober everyone up, regardless of what you say, to the regions and regardless of what the party is up to. This will refresh everyone as soon as the shower is cold. And I'm only a tech park in all of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u97	Thank you. Okay. Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economics and European Integration, Ludmila Musin. How do you feel about this project? Very short, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u98	The Ministry of Economics supports this project in view, firstly, of being the first environmental project. And the environmental problems in Ukraine in general and in the Donetsk region, they urgently need a radical solution. That's the first one. It's different. There are now seven innovative projects. What does innovation mean? The fact that as soon as they have been developed, they must be distributed throughout Ukraine. That's their innovation that they're launching to use clean, climate friendly technologies throughout the territory. And that's where they're most important. The only question is to control the actual costs, really how these benefits are used. I mean, just so it's not just a ride, maybe some kind of material. We control it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u99	Thank you. This is already a matter of government. Thank you. The draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on a special regime for investment and innovation in technology parks for the creation of an eco-Ukraine technology park has been completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. A draft law amending the Property Act of Ukraine on intellectual property is being announced for consideration. Head of State Department of Intellectual Property reports to Palady Mikola Vasilovich. Mikola Vasilovich, very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u100	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. You have before you a bill from Ukraine amending the Property Act, designed to comply with President of Ukraine's 2002 decree on measures to protect intellectual property in our country. The drafting of the bill is due to the lack of a proper legal basis. Sadly, when the Soviet Union was a state, only the state had the right to intellectual property. Today, unfortunately, in an independent Ukraine, this issue is not defined in legislation. That is, the law is adopted only in the interests of the State and settles relations with intellectual property created in the process of carrying out contracts financed by the State Budget and State trust funds. The project includes changes and additions to article 40 and the introduction of a new article 40. to the Ukrainian Property Act. An official edition of an article of this law defines the State as the subject of ownership. However, there is no mechanism in law for State participation in the distribution of intellectual property rights. Recently, the Supreme Council passed a law on cinematography, and similar rights are laid down there. That is, if the Ministry of Culture were to finance the production of a film, we would also consider that the State is also entitled to intellectual property, which occurs in the performance of certain films, and so on. The State acquires and exercises rights only in accordance with the laws of Ukraine. The State acts as a property entity, including intellectual property, for these objects created in the process of carrying out contracts financed by the State. As an intellectual property entity, the State acquires and exercises its rights in the person of the central executive authorities designated by the Cabinet of Ministers. So if, in the case of the Ministry of Culture, we would think that the Ministry of Culture, both on behalf of the State, could own this intellectual property. So, analogs. I didn't bring you today the patents of the United States of America, Germany, where this is going on, we're going to be saying, for a hundred years now, where, for example, the state is the owner of the Ministry, there, the defenses, if that's in the United States, there's military weapons, and so on. Or in the person of another central executive body. Individually, there are requirements for contracts for the execution of works financed at the expense of the state. The implementation of the proposed articles of this bill will ensure a clear mechanism for the distribution of intellectual property rights. We think that the inventor's work is also getting active because, well today, in the United States, in Germany, in Britain, in our neighboring developed countries, virtually cash flow in intellectual property, that is, trade in intellectual property rights today comes first. That's pretty serious money, it's already billions of dollars today. We would like Ukraine to be ready for this too. I think the time has come when this needs to be settled in our country too. We are grateful to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council for making comments and suggestions to this bill, most of which are correct and will be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. We will be very grateful for the support of this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u101	Any questions, dear fellows? If there's only one thing, we won't be writing it down. Please, Rephat Chubarov. Five minutes to ask, if so, because I can see there's going to be a temptation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u102	An honourable reporter, after all, you know, it's very difficult to keep a chapter between, say, the contribution of the state as such and the personality to the creation of an intellectual property of which. Well, money isn't, it's a very important segment, but it's not the main and main element, and it's the only element in creating intellectual property. We can give the money, let's say the two filmmakers are the same, but we get two very different movies. And that's why I want to ask you, where does what the author puts, where the intelligence, if the state wants to give up money, then have a full or 100 percent monopoly on that product that's not only made by money, but also by intelligence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u103	That's a very good question. I will say that this issue is already being protected in our country, but where it is not a subject of the rule of law. So if today's research institute is funding the development you're talking about, they're signing an agreement with a group of authors, they're natural persons, and the institute as a legal person, they have a common right to this intellectual property. So we think that the adoption of this bill doesn't undermine the flow of inventors, it has to be with a person, a legal person, or it's a state, or it's some other legal person, make a treaty, and there anticipate the rights of individuals to any intellectual property that may be created as a result of their joint work or joint activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u104	Vladimir Leschenko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u105	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Mikola Vasilovich, please explain article 40. Part five: "The intellectual property rights of intellectual property belonging to the State and their transfer to other persons." What's "other people"? These are the ones defined in article 40: Ukrainian citizens, foreign citizens, stateless persons, legal persons, and so forth? There is a sphere of national interest! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u106	Thank you. I'll say again that this question is solved today if we're not talking about the state. I mean, if an enterprise today owns intellectual property, that's a lot of it, such precedents, and that's logical, it wants to transfer its rights to another natural person, another legal person, it has the right to do so according to our existing legislation. So we have foreseen a similar point in this law. Because tomorrow, after funding some scientific development, after obtaining intellectual property rights, the State will want to transfer either to a state or non - state authority the right to use this patent, it should have the right, on the basis of a contract, to receive funds or on a free basis, as they agree with the subject to whom the right of use is transferred. And we think it could be both a physical, a legal, and a state, and a non-state institution.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u107	Thank you. Yeah, that's it. No questions? Have a seat, please. Philip Philipovich Budjigan, please. From the Committee on Economic Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u108	Honorable deputies. The Economic Policy Committee considered the bill. And 26.07.2002, registration number 2030. In its conclusion of 24.09, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office notes that the bill requires further work with regard to the comments and suggestions expressed by the management. More appropriate is the presentation of article 41 of the Property Law in the following edition: "The subjects of intellectual property rights are the author, the authors of intellectual property rights and other persons belonging to personal property and, or property rights of intellectual property in accordance with Ukrainian laws." The other one. We need to reconcile part one of the first paragraph of article 40-1 with article 10 of the Law on Protection of Inventory Rights and Useful Models. Therefore, the words "and on other grounds provided for in the laws of Ukraine" should be added to article 41, paragraph 2. The point here is that intellectual property rights can be transferred to the state and on other grounds, such as inheritance. Third. In the second reading, it is useful to produce more simple tools by which intellectual property rights created at government expense are transferred to the state. And to the end. I know that many of the provisions of the Ukrainian Property Law are out - of - date, since this law was adopted in 1991. So we need to fundamentally review it on the basis of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Civil Code as soon as possible. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft law. And after what you said. I invite you to work on the committee, first of all, those deputies who are very critical of this and of the other drafts of our Economic Committee, so that we can produce this position directly on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u109	Thank you, Philip Philipovich. They signed up for the show. Light up on the board, please. Five national deputies. I'd like a very brief, distinguished colleague to speak for everyone. Yuri Carmazin. It doesn't, does it? Oh, I'm glad.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u110	Vladimir Mikhailovich, you can't wait: yes, there was Carmazin and there will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u111	Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u112	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Of course, I'm not Lenin, and not all of us are alive, I'm sorry. Dear national deputies, in fact, the question that is currently being considered is extremely serious. I'd like to pay attention, it's good that we're back to this law, and I'll tell you why. Good, because the Property Law, where we now want to make a change, was passed on February 7, 1991. Think about it, please, in 1991. There are such pearls written that the subjects of property rights are other Soviet republics, the Soviet Union, this is article 3 of the law. Then, as a form of ownership, together with the state and private, a collective, communal property is considered state, article 31, and so on. So this Property Act is completely in conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine, absolutely. And today, to make a manipulative change in his intellectual property rights, it's not very serious. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I urged you, and you, thank God, spoke to the Supreme Council at the beginning of the session, said that you were for a comprehensive approach to legislative reform. An integrated approach means that such non-aggressors should not be excluded, that these laws should be reworked. Now about intellectual property. In the past Parliament, I have submitted a draft law to which I have asked you: let us recognize the subject of intellectual property rights of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because we work with you, work day and night, and write: this is our intellectual work. Where is she going, Volodymyr Mikhailovich? It's then sold by commercial entities for very big money, legislative acts I mean. If you and I were to set up a congregation for our intellectual work, we would be provided with computers and computers today, and all that is right, and there would be no other funds from the State Budget of Ukraine based solely on our intellectual property. And we just give it away, and then it's not used as an assignment. Dear National Deputies! I think it's going to ripen a lot before it realizes what it's supposed to do, and it's in many parliaments of the world, it's my know-how, unfortunately. Now, as far as the flaws of this bill are concerned. The most important flaw, I've already said, is that neither the Supreme Council nor the law are outdated. That's why I don't think he's responding to the Ukrainian Civil Code, so I think the law is needed just not now, it has to be reformulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u113	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u114	Dear 47 Supreme Council intellectuals! I've listed 47 national deputies who are interested in the law, and three foresights, 50 equal. The most talented, the wisest are all sitting here, because their questions are all the rest. I'm absolutely not speaking to a colleague of mine who just spoke, Yuri Carmazin. I love his globalism to do it all at once in a day, but Mr. Jury, you realize that you can't do it. The logic of the normal laws that exist in the states of stability, the great states, is that the law is passed, and then it is traced to how it works, where there are weak places where its "Achilles Five" is then amended in these points of the law. In this case, we have this situation. Article 40 of the Property Act states that "owners of property, owners of intellectual property may be individual citizens, natural persons and the state." Period. What we're clarifying today is the property of the state, it's very important. And why? So I can say in this short speech? In fact, Ukraine has lost almost everything over the past 10 years. We've lost the practicality and fertility of our soils, we've lost our economic potential, but most of all, I'm convinced that we're going to be able to gain it relatively quickly, the most frightening thing is that our nation with you has lost its intellectual potential. I was appalled by the fact that Canadian physical science has made a tremendous leap forward over the past 10 years. Turns out who? Our Ukrainian scientists. It turns out that mathematics in America -- one American told me -- has also made great progress on the account of immigrants from us. Here are the reasons, first of all, social, that the wages of our candidate for science are about 200 dollars and no more. In the West, it has a much higher chance of being realized. That's the first one. The other one. There's Boris Illrich, who's probably going to be speaking today, and he's going to confirm it. In 10 years, practically Ukrainian writers, Ukrainian artists -- so I'd call it wider -- forgot what the word "gonorrhea" means. Forget it. It's completely forgotten, because no one gets that fee. I've been publishing four books, and I haven't gotten a penny lately. Because of this, I am once again leading to the fact that this law is very important. I think that Yuri Carmazin is staying overnight for another week and he's voting for him absolutely, and I can see that he's backing him up, so let's support this law, it's necessary and necessary. Today we have nothing, we have no power, with which we are able to join the world society, we have lost too much. We're not going to give anyone our primitive TV sets or our combos or anything like that, but we're able to win ourselves a place with our national intelligence today. Because of this, I think that the law is being voted for and those who are not yet interested in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u115	Mikhailo Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u116	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I continue to think of my predecessor, and I want to say that when I was in the Supreme Council, I wrote 10 monographs, and I didn't get a penny for one, just one problem. Well, that's different. With regard to televisions, Mr. Volodymyr, I would like to say: there are counterfeits in Ukraine and, if they need to be supported as innovative, Ukraine can quickly have the most modern and even new TV, in principle a new TV and a new computer just need to know what it is. Now, concerning this law. Your Honor, I support you. It's a normal scheme. I'm the only one who wants to make a comment on all of Ukraine on our Mikhail Vasilovich. To date, you are mostly serving the interests of other states in Ukraine in protecting intellectual property. This Ukrainian Committee on Budgets is paying you money and you have to protect primarily the intellectual property of Ukraine, not other states. And now, essentially. So here's the detail. In the previous, what Yavorowski repeated was the subject of citizens, legal persons, and the state. And now what we have in Civil Rights is expanding and complementing: foreign citizens, people without citizenship, and so on. Do you know one person without citizenship who has contributed to the development of Ukraine? So I suggest you do that. What was left behind is one thing: Foreign citizens who work and live in Ukraine and do something for Ukraine. Next. Indeed, the State should act as an entity. Therefore, in the second article, the State acts as one of the subjects because it works with inventors. Next. If these objects belong to the sphere of national interest. And then the Cabinet of Ministers determines what's in the next article. So this chapter needs to be thrown out. Everything that is done in the State belongs to national interests. And he needs to be protected. That's a second observation. And the third. It's not just "other people" but "other intellectual property subjects" because the treaty states work with it. I want to say there's another problem. I even had grants in the UTC. From the UTC, that's the system. Everything you've done, you've been paid money, and you've completely lost ownership of this development. This needs to be adjusted because the UTC has caused a very large loss of intellectual property of Ukraine and Ukrainians. So that's what it is. So I propose that if the government promises not to oppose it, it can be read first, but certainly not more. Because we need to take into account these essential observations that are there. And I'd like to, I'll start with that and I'll finish it. Mikola Vasilovich, we must all, as Americans, protect our national interests first. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u117	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, in today’s world intellectual property becomes a decisive form of property. And the trade in intellectual property products becomes the main segment of the market. And if we want to move in this direction, the socialisation process, of course, we need to create an appropriate legislative field for that. From this point of view, the bill is valid and correct. Of course, we're going through the passage of drafts, which is the basic way and method of our legislative work. We need it now. a new property law, a long-adopted, modern property law, where all these issues are resolved, including intellectual property issues. But you can't do everything right now. And that's why we have to go this way and do it the way we do it the way we do it. But the question has matured. Indeed, it is said to knock on the door. And that's why I think the bill needs to be adopted. At the same time, I agree with my colleagues who made critical remarks, and above all, I would like to generalize the basic flaw, perhaps the bill is that it is aimed at protecting the interests of the state in intellectual property, but not at protecting the interests of individuals as intellectual property subjects. Although I understand why. Because the purpose of the bill and the bill is to protect the interests of the state. But this really raises the question: How can property rights be distributed between the State and the subjects? Therefore, it is necessary to write more clearly in the process of preparing the bill for second reading more clearly the mechanism for the distribution of property rights between the State and the subjects, especially when they did so together. My colleague was right to point out that it is not possible to finance everything. In fact, the emphasis is on what? If the state is funding, it's the right to own it. But not only are they going to create finance, but Chubarov has said it, not only through funding, through money, but through the intelligence of specific people. Therefore, we need to consider how to write down the distribution of property rights between the State and the subject. Here's a basic observation that I'd like to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u119	Thank you. Please, Boris Illrich Oilynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, there was an absolute reason for Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, and so I would like to say, by addressing Mikli Vasilovich, that years 12 or 13 could still be called this property law. Now it's supposed to sound like this: about saving the last remnants of intellectual property, because what's happening in this spiritual field, I don't want to tell you, all the borders are open, going up to the pillar there, on the border, you can see to Washington, Moscow, and to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. In this connection, I would like to use this situation to refer to a single decree in connection with the preparation of a draft decree by the President of Ukraine on measures for the development of the tourist and recreational sphere of Ukraine, where the second paragraph of paragraph "g" foresees, quote, a programme for the implementation of non-rearitist exhibits from funds in the museum's reserves with a view to involving funds for the updating of the material base of museums, historical and cultural monuments, cultural heritage monuments. Paradoxical situation: Although selective, the sale of museum collections contrary to current legislation is proposed. At the same time, the lion’s share of museum funds perishes in reserves where they are essentially killed. To get out of this coalition, it is necessary, as far as I am concerned, to create a competent body to involve professionals in all fields, as well as law enforcement professionals, to learn the world's experience in this matter, to evaluate and classify the values of the museum fund at the widest possible level. And it takes time, and it's not small. Comrades of the Communists, may you be quieter! Now, allowing sales is like legalizing the theft of impenetrable costs that are still being made from under the field. On behalf of the concerned public, please remove the above paragraph from the draft decree until it is clarified. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u121	Review. Please, Ivan Fedorovich Kuras.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u122	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I asked for words to be discussed in connection with what. In fact, I don't want to repeat, it's absolutely fair both about, and the counter, which has already been spoken here in both the report by Miklao Vasilovich and the honourable colleagues. I just want to say one thing: I have seen the need to eliminate some contradiction between intellectual property rights that have existed to this day. The state, as it has done, has found itself outside this state arrangement. And it participates directly not only in financing, but also in providing materially, organizationally, and human resources, and so forth. Colleagues talked about it. So it must be done. I wanted to talk to you about something. Before this bill was introduced by our department, this issue was discussed at several scientific conferences. And here, the nationals, we have Ukraine, and we have international ones. A round table was passed, and a scientific conference was held. The Institute of State and the Law of Our Academy of Sciences has established the International Center for the Protection of Intellectual Property Rights. This issue was discussed there too. And I wanted to bring to the Supreme Council today the opinion and the scientific community, and the Presidency of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, and the Association for the Protection of Intellectual Property Rights, which also works in Ukraine, about the urgent need to address this problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u123	Thank you. A review of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Intellectual Property Act has been completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. Dear colleagues, if you wish, we could now consider in such a concise manner another draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition. Well, the two of them, they're interconnected. Please, Kostusev is head of the Antimonopoly Committee. Give it to me very briefly, squeeze. Well, if it's not your wish, maybe it's clear because we're at 1:00. Please, two words.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. For your consideration, a bill proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending certain laws of Ukraine is presented. He envisions a series of changes to the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee and other laws. This is due to the fact that Ukraine's Law on Protection of Economic Competition has taken effect, which has substantially improved the system of protection of economic competition in Ukraine and brought it into line with European standards, increased the number of functions of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, redistributed powers between its individual bodies and changed their system. At the same time, the basic Law of Ukraine on the Antimonopoly Committee has yet to be amended accordingly, making the application of the new law more difficult. With the adoption of the bill, the establishment of an organisational system for protecting economic competition in Ukraine will be practically completed. The introduction of amendments to Ukraine’s other laws is mainly due to the introduction of their terminology into the terminology of the Ukrainian Law for protection of economic competition. In particular, I would like to thank Gurenko Stanislav Ivanovich, members of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment, as well as the head of the Secretariat of the Committee of Nations, Janovna, for their work in preparing the bill for consideration in the first reading. Please support the draft Ukrainian law and adopt it in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u125	Any questions? Please, Vitaly Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u126	Vitaly Shibko, Ukrainian Socialist Party Alexiyyovich, you're now looking out for competition in Ukraine, and you're making sure that it's regulated in legislation, and that's what's really going on. I'm writing you a letter saying that, today, the same gas companies in Dnipropetrovska and, for example, in Kirovgrad, in the neighbouring region or in Dnipropetrovsk, in Donetsk, have different prices, at which they trade the same companies as they seem to have arranged. So this agreement shows that there is no competition. You answer the mines: it's a difficult question, we analyze it, we'll answer it in a little while. I've been waiting for this answer for the third month, and I'd like to know how it's being analyzed and, really, why is it that, literally, after 100 kilometers, the price of gasoline is already much higher? Why this is happening I'd like to know how an expert in this field.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u127	Thank you for asking. The thing is, we have such tight deadlines for responding to the people's deputies -- 10 days. And we're giving this answer, as it were, to the previous one. And it takes a lot more time to investigate. And this kind of investigation goes on, and when it's done, you're going to get a meaningful answer, essentially, because in 10 days it's just not possible. We do, and the answer will be given essentially.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u128	Yuri Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u129	Dear reporter! Lucenka, Soccer. I had a similar request five months ago in your structure. The difference between the prices of Kiev and the Donetsk region for petrol is 10 percent. It is clear to everyone that this is a monopolistic plot. Clearly, there are mechanisms for overcoming it. The answer came to me first. Then the final answer: “We do not see any violations”. I can't understand if the same firm in Kiev and Donetsk is trading, and to Kremenczuk closer to Donetsk, as far as I can tell, than to Kiev, at a higher price, it's an obvious monopoly plot, it's a monopoly price. I mean, it's clearly your jurisdiction. My answer is, unfortunately, not you, but the Donetsk Antimonopoly that no sign of conspiracy has been found. Well, it hasn't been discovered if they're simple. I put a fiscal check there from one gas station and another. Well, it's simply, let's just say, a failure to do your duty. And that's one thing. I understand it's not a question, it's a request to you to deal with this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u130	Yeah, yeah. I've already written it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u131	And the question. To avoid asking questions, I think we can communicate calmly at the level of addressing and explaining. And my question is. Still, what is involved in accepting the document that you report today? These are shortcomings in previous legislation, or are these requirements, let's say, a situation that has changed?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u132	Thank you for asking. Excuse me, have you addressed me personally? I'm bringing mine to you. I'm sorry, because if the head of the district office didn't answer to you personally, I'm simple. My employees will be ordered to do so. That it was not the minister to whom he had addressed the people's MP who replied. With regard to your second question, the law on the protection of economic competition has entered into force. This is a new law, it meets all the requirements of world, European, and other laws have existed 10 years before it, and something needs to be reconciled and brought into line with the new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u133	Michael Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u134	Thank you. Alexeiyovich, you were a national deputy, a very smart man, and that's why I have this question. Whether consciously or not, those who prepared the law essentially copied the law on your Antimonopoly Committee and gave functions, police functions, there should be no such. So I wanted to say that whether they agreed with you or not, when they wrote this law, they expanded their authority. And Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I want us to make a note to our Scientific and Experimental Department that change and complementing means to bring it into line, not to write a new law, and our Legal Office has not noticed that there is a new law written there, so, in principle, it can't be adopted. On the re-first reading, I'd still agree that you can do that, because everything else there has to be removed. And at the end of the question. The Antimonopoly Committee needs to know that you know that there are three types of competition: free competition is an ideal that is not in nature; monopolistic competition of large firms is basic and political competition. The Antimonopoly Committee is creating in Ukraine and fighting for free competition and creating conditions for monopolistic competition, that is, for foreign firms to capture our market and we had no opportunity to fight them. So the function of protecting your market and your manufacturer is nowhere to be seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u135	Thank you for asking. In further work on the bill, this issue, which you have violated, will be dealt with and dealt with accordingly. It's about acceptance in the first reading, and that's the idea, that's the idea, of a profile committee, of an expert board of the Supreme Council. As for the functions, well, Deputy Lucenko asked, "Why didn't they prove a conspiracy there?" Well, if there are no functions, how can we prove a conspiracy? Our foreign colleagues have far more rights than we have. There's no time. I'd like to tell you everything. If you don't give functions, how do I prove, for example, a conspiracy?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u136	Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u137	I think after that we can not speak, and we're going to shorten the time, but I want to ask. Dear Alexyyyovich, I agree that functions need to be strengthened and your capabilities, but tell me, how do we have to do, in addition to natural monopolies, that we still have artificial monopolies in the agrarian market, in the food industry, that the anti-monopoly laws make us work so that we do not try to lower the price to the critical level that goes beyond the lower cost of farmers in Ukraine. We have these examples every day. It's milk, it's meat, it's bread. They're not many, they're making deals, and they're suffering a few million peasants. So tell me, how and how can you help your committee to help the villagers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u138	Thank you. Thank you very much. You can give us help to give us authority. What do you say, I agree with you completely. And more than that, we found a plot and ordered nine businesses, a conspiracy with the authorities, that forced farmers to give milk only to this enterprise and only at that price, and we paid a reward for it as if for the milk congregation. We have many things to do, both in bread and in grain and in milk. This question is at the heart of the Antimonopoly Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u139	Thank you. Time's up. Please have a seat. We're not going to end this, you're going to end this. Please, Philip Philipovich. We need to move on to different things. Let's do it very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u140	Budhagan, Communist faction, economic committee. On November 20, 2002, our committee discussed the matter at its meeting. Let's say that on January 13, 2001, in that call, we passed an economic competition law that came into effect on March 2, 2002. This law has significantly increased the scope of issues relating to the legal regulation of economic competition placed on the central executive authorities with a special status to protect competition, the Anti-Monopoly Committee of Ukraine. This led to the need to harmonize the Ukrainian legislation governing antitrust activities, the protection of economic competition, the restriction of monopolies with the new Ukrainian law on the protection of economic competition. In particular, this bill proposes to amend 21 laws. And what's interesting is that more is the law on the antitrust committee, where the most important changes are being proposed. Clearly, the estimate is ambiguous, and many more will have to be clarified and modified. In particular, the new proposal is to complement the competence of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the state-authorized heads of the territorial divisions of the committee with the right of entry on the basis of a decision of the court to a residence or other possession of a person and to examine, search, remove or place an arrest on property, objects, documents, other media that may be evidence or a source of evidence in the case. However, the additional powers of officials and bodies of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine should be aligned with the provisions on security legislation, including the Criminal Procedure Code and the Act on Operational Search Activities. In addition, the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws proposes to amend the Act on the Antimonopoly Committee, according to which the Antimonopoly Committee authorities will have the right to require information from owners and authorities, as well as from other natural and legal persons, including with limited access. This situation is in conflict. It needs to be aligned with article 32 of the Constitution, which regulates access to information with limited access. Amendments to other Ukrainian legislation, including the Ukrainian laws on natural monopolies, on communication, on rail transport and on 17 other laws, are mostly codifying, usually related to changes in terminology, as well as the names of legislative acts. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws under registration number 1080, taking further account of its proposals for second reading, including the Scientific and Expert Department and the proposals that the deputies will make today, and so on our committee come, we will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u141	Thank you. We're running out of time, but let's take a few minutes. How many, five? Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please. But 10 people were enrolled.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u142	Yuri Carmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion is very important. It's very important because it makes changes to several legislative acts -- both the Enterprise Act and the Enterprise Act, the External Economics Act, the Investment Act, and, ultimately, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. You know, we recently encountered the antitrust committee of Ukraine addressing the issue of a substantial increase more than twice the price in Odessa's hero city. And this was initiated on our request by the MP. And you know what we're dealing with? The city council, led by Ruslan Bodelan, did not issue documents to the Antimonopoly Committee. And he directly wrote the answers that there is nothing we can do about it because we haven't got the papers. It is now registered with the authority to use these documents that are needed, and these changes are recorded in the law. Is that right or wrong? I think it's the right thing to do. At the same time, there is a question to this law, and I would like the transcript to be made, and to the developers, I ask that conceptually at this level such changes be made. Foresaw the broad rights of the antimonopoly committee, we need to predict that it can cause harm, and we need to ask the question of responsibility. Therefore, we propose to introduce article 31, where to write the “Responsibility of the Antimonopoly Committee and its officials” as follows: “The officers of the Antimonopoly Committee for Failure or the improper performance of their official duties are responsible for the order determined by the Ukrainian legislation. The damage caused to legal or physical persons by the illegal actions or omissions of the Antimonopoly Committee or its officials in exercising their powers is to compensate in full for the funds allocated in the State Budget for the maintenance of the Antimonopoly Committee. This will make it clear within the framework of the law. And the next two observations. The Constitution of Ukraine does not provide for the right of the President of Ukraine to issue decrees setting out the priorities and directions of competition policy. But in part, in article 7 of the Antimonopoly Committee Law, paragraphs 2 and 3, such authorizations are recorded. They need to be removed at the conceptual level. Next. It is also suggested that the President’s right, with the consent of the Supreme Council, to release the head of the committee in the event of a gross violation of his official duties may be left, otherwise a situation in which the head does not perform his duties and cannot be released. And the last. We are facing the threat of a sharp increase in fuel prices and the collapse of spring-field jobs. I'm calling on the head of the Antimonopoly Committee: to take urgent measures to stop the monopoly actions of NCRE -- to raise tariff prices that have raised tariff prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u143	Thank you. School, please, Andrew. Next Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to stress that the law is essential and its regulatory, regulatory part is important for all spheres of activity in practice and economics, and rights in Ukraine. I would just like to focus your attention briefly on the fact that we are continuing to give authority to the Antimonopoly Committee to another branch of power, particularly to the President. And it was rightly pointed out that the right to regulate should be left, that is to say, both to be appointed and to be released. But I would like to know that the right to freedom belonged to the Supreme Council. We must finally understand that the accountability of an organ like the Supreme Council is more appropriate and understandable, and that it will work easier for the Antimonopoly Committee itself, and for us with you. I would like two more words literally to say that the antimonopoly committee's inactivity should be punished much more than its reactivation. Since the committee’s own passiveness has led to a lot of problems lately, I will no longer hold back from setting examples. However, when the problem could have been addressed and the problem had to be addressed with the help of the Antimonopoly Committee, and it was not removed, then indeed the material responsibility should be borne directly by the head of the Antimonopoly Committee and the entire Antimonopoly Committee. And in general, two words about competition, right and wrong, about artificial monopolies and natural ones. It's already been said about how the dairy industry was destroyed, in fact, because there was artificially undervalued in the purchase of milk. This was by conspiring the owners of businesses. The same is true of the banking conspiracy. We don't see that it exists in the creation of the so-called margin of purchasing and selling dollars, it's always there. And this conspiracy has to be prosecuted by law, but it has to be addressed primarily by the Antimonopoly Committee, because it's an artificial monopoly, and the conspiracy of banks has been the main and real ruin of all economies and, above all, the Ukrainian economy and is a destroyer now. So with bread, so, well, practically everywhere you go, there's work for the Antimonopoly Committee. That's why I'd like you to. And we're going to adopt this law to activate the Antimonopoly Committee. Of course, the role of the committee should be taken into account and strengthened, and it should be strengthened as a monitoring and regulatory body. I call for a vote in the first reading with a view to developing and giving a real mechanism to influence unnatural and natural monopolies in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u145	Puzakov Vladimir Tikhovitch, please, and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u146	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Since I represent the Kyrovograd region, I will speak on her example. In our area, not every business can go to the external market. In the city of Kirovograd there is a giant Hydrosila, who, in a condition of instability, sent 70 percent of his product for export. But today it's just going to stop. What is the reason? And she's alone: the non-return of VAT, which is now worth 9 million dollars. And it's scary that this debt doesn't go down, but it's going up. The state doesn't even take the slightest step to meet manufacturers -- to return VAT to the monthly term. In addition, VAT non-return has no negative social impact, affecting the development of the enterprise itself, because the downsizing of the enterprise is a reduction in income from the local budget, the Pension Fund, the Social Insurance Fund, the wages, none of them will win. So the state has to fight for every enterprise, protect it, increase production, improve quality, because competition is getting stronger, and the consumer finds it elsewhere. Today, the hydrosila plant's collective is forced to cut production, and it might even happen that at the time of the spring meltdown, there's not enough production in the factory to satisfy the customer. And if things don't change, obviously there won't be an incentive to export products, because the more you export, the worse you get. That's what our defense of economic competition is. And it makes such an impression that the Antimonopoly Committee doesn't understand what can happen to an enterprise that works for the image of Ukraine to trust our state. The hydrosila factory's workforce is looking for different ways to protect its economic competition. So far, one is possible, although it's not a very convenient way to do it, it's loans, but loans are large interest rates, which once again tics lead to lower income and budget cuts. So you have to say that when you protect your manufacturer, you have to think about this law about real protection of economic competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u147	One minute, Valentina Seminouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u148	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Chairman! Dear Alexiyovich! The law needs to be adopted, but first of all, I would like to have it spoken, especially in the transcript, in article 7, that to the competence of the Antimonopoly Committee, where, on the basis of the decisions of the court, persons are allowed to enter the residence and other possession, to search them, to remove and arrest property, objects and documents, other media in this case should, in the first place, be removed, especially because if we take that police state that we are building today, we cannot proceed with such an offer. Therefore, amendments to the Economic Convention Act should also be made. The other one. Today, we cannot agree with article 13, paragraph 1, of this law concerning the granting of permission or the prohibition of reconciliation by a group of representatives of the Antimonopoly Committee. There should be a broad, clear text in the bill. I want to, Alexei Alexiyovich, we're from the Special Monitoring Commission on Monopolies, the talk between representatives of other states about privatization, we're going to give you especially in writing. I'm asking you to consider this. And I would like you to be at parliamentary hearings, to hear these proposals and to hear about these conspiracies, especially representatives from other states in privatization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, according to the Supreme Council Rules, we're moving on to the Vulnerable. Thirty national deputies were enrolled. The word is given to Puzakov Volodymyr Tikhovich. Please follow the rules. Next Gurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u150	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. On 15 February, I took part in a solemn ceremony to place flowers in the monument to the internationalist soldiers. 14 years ago, the last soldier of the Soviet Army left Afghanistan. At first it was a celebration for every Afghan, their families and us. But it is a disgrace that today the “rationalists” have called the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of War and Peace Operations. [[& Tiles]] You listen to the bitter speeches of the Afghan boys, and the heart is filled with pride that we had such heroes. And, at the same time, it's pain when you hear about their misery, their treachery, their humiliation of human dignity, to listen to the constant reproach that we did not send, and our country did not send, the Soviet Union sent you. The idea comes to mind that whoever died in Afghanistan's territory, carrying out an international duty, will forever be remembered by relatives and loved ones, he is a hero. And who was he who remained alive and returned to his homeland also a hero? Turns out, no. As one of the speakers said, "We are the victims of today's criminal regime in Ukraine." And it's probably true. They are persistently tried even to deprive them of their benefits, and in society these benefits are seen as the root cause of low wages and pensions, salary arrears, insufficient financing of health and education. They are now working hard on further public-scale taxation, on monetary compensation. The Chernobyl people are already familiar with this compensation. Ask the family of the deceased how they will be compensated for the loss of loved ones. Take the air and hold your breath, and the pension for the deceased soldier is 27 bracelets! Now imagine that we have cash compensation in our country. Organizations are now being set up that attempt to defile and rob Afghans and herbivores with foam at the mouth. It has been 14 years since the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan, but during this time the views of the war that has overshadowed the fate of many compatriots have changed at least four times. Afghan participants have become occupiers, and a comfortable position has now become for the authorities: Ukraine has not fought in Afghanistan. What is happening in our educational institutions? In the 11th grade of Afghanistan, the theme is 45 minutes. 45 minutes per 160,000 Ukrainian citizens who participated in Afghanistan, in Afghan events. 45 minutes for 3,000 360 non-refoulementers to Ukraine, of whom 3,000 280 were killed and 80 were missing and captured. 45 minutes for more than 8,000 injured Ukrainians, of whom 3,000,560 became disabled. 45 minutes per 2,000 729 mothers without sons, 505 widows and 711 orphans. Our children, however, are completely programmed to follow the very pretentious traditions of Ukrainian pretence. Even military school students lack information about Afghanistan. Our children, the children of those who fought the open lips, are watching American fighters with their heroes when they live. And they're right next door. In this regard, I would like to say that a State that throws its fate at its own free hand and gives its internationalist soldiers, veterans, disabled persons, families of the dead, prisoners of war, is unlikely to find many fellow citizens -- I conclude -- ready to join the ranks of defenders. In a country where the families of the deceased receive a disgraceful 27 bracelets - pension for the dead in Afghanistan - and where, without the help of the same State, the attitude in the army has become a parasitic element of society, it is unlikely that there will be many patriots, no matter how much they have been pummeled by fairy tales! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u151	The word is given to Gurov Vadim Mikolaiovich. Next Gurwitz. Follow the rules, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u152	Dear colleagues! Respectable radio audiences! Vadim Gurov, Krivbass. Today, when we approved my request to the Prime Minister at the plenary meeting, we supported the 150 deputies on the privatization of Ukrprom and I, Vadim Gurov, understood one thing that must be done. Clear and clear, to understand what Ukram is? I think it's just another little balloon they want to privatize. This is Krivbass. It's the foundation of our steel industry. I mean, we've taken the saints, we're not going to say what, but we're going to destroy the foundation. There's no home without a foundation. What is Krivbass? One day at dawn, when I first came here, they asked me, "Where did you come from?".. "From Krivbassa." "What's there, and there's mines?" That's why I realized that we know what's in Brazil, what's in America, but what's happening in our country, we don't really know. Now, Krivbass is the sixth largest iron ore mine in the world, the 1st place in Europe. That's 70 percent of our country's iron ore, that's the fence, that's the foundation, I stress again, of our industry. What we have in this town. 120 years of exploitation, kurgans singing for Donbass, and Krivbass singing even more for Krivbass. Let's move on. Wastes, tails. If we've been watching from the helicopter, it's a moonland. And between them, the 800,000 that they put in both the budget and the budget, and the total budget, is huge, which is why our country is still living. Therefore, in order to solve these problems, it is necessary for the approach to be public. That's first of all. What's waiting for us? This is primarily the elimination of old mines that have exhausted their stockpiles. What is it? They shut down the well, they thought we'd shut down, the water would build up, and it was over. We're in a lot of trouble right now. The same thing, you know, trouble in the Yellow Waters, where radiation water is now heating up practically the city. And now we want to sink the First Level, which is in the center of the city. And they say the commission has decided, science has indicated so. That's the science they're going to tell them, that's what she's going to do. Let's move on. We've got to get rid of the mine water. Sailing water is a terrible thing to do. We've already salted the Hersonian, the Nikolaev regions. That's why. I'm not against privatization. In principle. But to do that, we need to get the base up. We need to have a law on nadra, about land rental, about territory alienation. It's only after that that we start this sacred work. That's what I call you to, my colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u153	The word is given to Gurwicz Edward Josephovich. The next school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u154	All right, can I get started? Edward Gurwitz, faction of our Ukraine. Respectable colleagues, distinguished guests of Parliament. On 15 February, there was an incident in Kiev that showed that fundamental political freedoms were still lacking in Ukraine and that the authorities continued to manipulate public consciousness in an unceremonious manner. A group of members of the “Brotherhood” was dispersed while moving towards Independence Square to participate in the authorized rally by members of the Kiev militia for no reason. At the same time, 19 persons, including women, were illegally detained, and means of apparent agitation were destroyed or confiscated, requiring the condemnation of the ruling Iranian dictatorship, calling for support for the actions of States that constitute the bones of an international anti-terrorist coalition. During the day, I tried to get the detainees released. The latter were not released until late in the evening and their prosecution continues. After interviews with the police, it became clear to me that law enforcement structures had once again become hostages in the hands of unscrupulous politicians. The “Brotherhood” slogans and its very appearance in the square were completely contrary to the so-called anti-war rally scenario written in the power corridors. It was by no means a major role in his organization and the exercise of power that he entrusted to the very unpopular among the Kievers who had been expelled from Parliament, almost forgotten by the political provokers. That is why the action was so small and its anti-war nature was destroyed by the prevailing slogans in support of the blood dictator Saddam Hussein and the convicted of terrorism, Abdullah Ocalan. Those who spoke at the rally generally had not as much anti-war as anti-American, anti-democracy sounds. In the light of the foregoing, I consider it necessary to investigate this incident, to prevent further persecution by the members of the “Brotherhood”. It is also necessary to invite the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to present to the Supreme Council in the coming days the position of the Government of Ukraine on the resolution of the Iraqi crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u155	Thank you. The word is given to Andrew School, the next Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u156	Dear radio listeners, distinguished national MPs, who are not so many, but they are, I always say, on the "Variance" there are those who speak and the best among the national MPs. So I'd like to tell you, first and foremost, and the radio audience that story about, I'd even say, the story of how I was deprived of the legislative initiative as a national MP. And it happened in a very simple way. One day we were looking at the amnesty law, and it was sent to read again. We sent it, it's fine, but it's got a little post. It turns out that the Supreme Council has made a decision to take away my right to work on this law, and to pass it on to a committee that is very sensitive to this legislation. This decision was not voted on, of course, nor was it provided for in any other normative documents, but it did. If the Rules are adopted, the Rules provide for the possibility of re-reading the time for processing the instrument, but there is nothing to say about depriving the national MP of the legislative initiative. I don't know, maybe there's a new bill that was passed without our knowledge about the removal of the Andrew School legislative initiative. Maybe. I'm just not informed about him, because, as one of the committee members said, the laws under my name, the school name, will not pass. They will come and go, not now, not so on Thursday, not in this session, so on the next one, but they will pass. And the only thing that's bothering me is what happened and it's gone unnoticed. I'm reading other drafts that went to read again, and I'm looking at, there was no such right that was exploited by the committee. It happened to me. I'd like this to be in the form of a parliamentary inquiry, my speech. I want someone to inform me whether it's the Supreme Council Secretariat or the Governing Council, how it happens. Because I'm saying in general that the status of the people's MP has been annulled in a very large number of ways. We're in this somewhere, the people's deputies themselves, they're guilty, but most of the time, it's a matter of internal competition. I realize that someone doesn't want to, someone isn't interested, someone is jealous of these or other positions, but it doesn't have to affect the quality of the laws. And I will thank you that this Amnesty Law will be further developed. And people in a totalitarian state, in a state that can only plant, are easily planted, but very hard to get out of prison, a state where the most prisoners per capita. And what's to say if we have a prime minister who's been behind bars. Well, when I was young, it was a mistake. But whatever amnesty there is, we wouldn't have a prime minister today. So the Amnesty Law we have is at a higher level of government. I want to say that right now it's not even about the political prisoners who are behind bars, they're going out and they're going to be heroes. So despite being a part of the TB disease, they are still heroes who are the simple mortals who rot in prisons. I'm not afraid of that term because, in fact, I've been very sick about it. I urge us all to take care of each other together and to ensure that the Supreme Council issues quality and positive laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u157	Victor Taran, next Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u158	Yulia Timoshenko, Victor Terrence. Dear colleagues, Ukrainian citizens. Today our plenary session began with the greeting of Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin with the International Day of Mother Language. And I also want to welcome every one of you, dear citizens of Ukraine, with this day, because the native language, the native land, the native Ukraine, the native mother, are the most sacred concepts that each of us has in the deepest depths in the innermost parts of our heart. And I want every one of you to have a Cossack Zaporozhye spoken in Ukrainian, and the history of Cossacks is over six centuries old, and the working Donbas, the mining Donbas, and Odessa, the harks, all of us, to feel that we live in one single state. And I would very much like, my fellow Members, to have this practice, when some of us speak the language of a foreign state, at last it's gone. Because it's made up of this, you know, notion that when a national MP of the people of Ukraine speaks in the language of a people of another state, it's, you know, such a weird thing, and people marvel at it. And I'd like to wish you even more so that the guarantor of the Constitution, and that means the guarantor of the national language -- Leonid Danilovich Kuchma -- also speaks this language perfectly. And our beautiful Ukrainian teachers, the teacher, may have found a kind soul that could have taught Leonid Danilovich not to speak the serrated language, but the normal language, the literary language, the language of Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk. And I would like to report to you, dear Ukrainian citizens, for the work of our Yulia Block, Timoshenko, that, under the insistence of our bloc, we managed to put 10 million dollars into the budget this year for the development of the Ukrainian language. This money has to go to rural libraries to buy books for our children in the village they read. And what I'm saying is that yesterday our Parliament took a very good lead when we beat the President's veto to relieve these heavy tax clamps, this pressure on the Ukrainian book, because today in Ukraine, there are really 0.9 books per capita. This was said by Andrew School, but perhaps the most political prisoners. And I want to say that this is going to happen, Ukraine will be Ukrainian, but it will only happen if the Ukrainian authorities do. And I would like to warn you about something else, dear Ukrainian citizens, today the newspaper "Ukraine Young" says that there will soon be an initiative somewhere in Dnipropetrovska, where Leonid Danilovich Kuchma will be taking a third term. And I think it's possible. After all, for the money of Ukrainian taxpayers, this card was released, where Leonid Danilovich greeted himself and greeted you all on New Year’s Eve. And for that to happen, we have to go out on March 9th on the Shevchenkov days and say so in Ukrainian language, so the Ukrainian authorities and not the Russians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u159	Michael Pavlovsky. Next Tooth. And as for the native language, I think that the native language is the language of the family where the human being was raised. In general, let us be tolerant of both Russian and Ukrainian. This issue should not be politicized. Please, Michael Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u160	Thank you. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, Hmelnicki. Fatherland's Party. I have three references. One thing is that we're going to write a bill, amendments and additions to the law that we passed on debt restructuring to immediately cancel article 3, which imposes fines and pennies on debt at 100 percent. That is, if a person has been missing for a few days, then he will never be counted again. This is of particular concern to pensioners. I even got a phone call in the morning. And I want to say that we're going to do it, we're going to delete this article. If the President does not uphold this law, then all claims to the President as he supports his people, the people of Ukraine. The second question. I want to address the leadership of the Supreme Council, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. We see in the order of day the youth program represented by the government, but I want to pay attention to it, and it's going to be such a protocol commission, so that we can look at Julia Timoshenko's law, and I'm a co-author of state support for building housing for young people, where we don't have declarations, but where we're going to take 4 billion bracelets in order to solve the problem of mortgage lending for young people. [[3-4 years]] It's our bill that shows how to do it. The government writes a declaration: create conditions, create, give. Where's the money? When? How? What time is it? Today, 150,000 young people are on the line. Imagine if 800 apartments a year were built today, they would not be young in 100 years, since we are 30 years old. Third thing I wanted. Third. I'd like to address our voters. People are good! You want to live better in the country, immediately contact the President of Ukraine to give him the commission of the First Channel to highlight the gathering of deputies of all levels on March 2nd, which will take place in Kiev and the events on March 9th."so that you can see objectively that the First Channel highlighted what is being done in the state, address the President, perhaps he will be listened to by the representatives of the First Channel and will be shown objectively what is being done in the state. And people I call on everyone on March 9th at 11 am to come to the European square and show that you want to live better and we can live better in this state. I have the written consent of Julia Timoshenko to speak for another three minutes, but I will not speak and ask for one minute at the expense of this time to give Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u161	Please, Yuri Carmazin. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u162	Honorable National MPs. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine, Solidarity. On February 23, Ukraine will once again celebrate the Day of Fatherland’s Defenders. The Ukrainian people have struggled for independence for centuries, and it is not just language, borders, their own money unit or government, but primarily the relationship between the state and its citizens, if each person felt that it was their country that cared about it and was willing to fight for it. Honorable national MPs are all who defend her borders, independence, the security of our citizens, who increase her welfare and greatness every day of their work. So on the eve of our holiday with you, I would like to congratulate all the citizens of Ukraine on the Day of Fatherland's Defenders, to wish that the notion of the defenders of the country was the most honorable and worthy. I would like to be cared for by the Lord God, Ukraine, and us. I would like to remind you that the decision to create a coordinating body in a forum for democratic development in Ukraine in September 2002 was made to appeal to all political parties, public organisations, to the entire Ukrainian people, to the patriotic democratic parties, to civil organizations, to support the process of real unification and to influence the leaders of the Ukrainian democratic forces, whose combined powers are of only a declarative nature. So we're going to protect our country and ourselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u163	Valentin Sergiyovich Zubov, next is Mihovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u164	Valentin Zubov, Julius Timoshenko block faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences. Of course, there is no point in speaking in a semi-empty room today in terms of logic. But given that speaking and addressing the opposition of the people, the people, to their electorates is only possible today, Friday, in different ways, I cannot fail to take this opportunity. What would I like to say today? Respectable radio audiences, several days ago, held parliamentary hearings on one of the most tragic pages in the history of the Ukrainian people, namely, the famine of the year 33. This is a very important, very important event. But I have to say directly, how parliamentary hearings have been held, how they have been organized, is a real surprise to me in a mild way. First, because the overwhelming majority of speakers talked mainly about the repression of the Stalin regime and no one said that we were dealing with this problem in the new famine of the 1990s. Remember 52 million, 48 million. Whose job is this? Who organized this new famine? Secondly, I would say that the cynical moment in the hearings was that Mr. Tobacconik, Deputy Prime Minister for Humanitarian Affairs, was the main rapporteur on the issue. This is the person who led the administration of the President for a certain period of time who was involved in the organization of a new famine in the 1990s. Well, the most important, respected colleagues, respected radio audiences. Any event should be carried out for a specific purpose. Yes, we were indeed obliged to give tribute to those who died in the 1930s. But most importantly, I think we must carry out activities to learn lessons from history. One of the main lessons, in my view, is that hunger has not only been possible through the targeted policies of the then regime, it has only been possible because we have all lost the opportunity and the ability to social resistance. As a student of the University of Kharkiv, I asked myself: How could a young father, let's say, hold on to a dying child with his own hands, and he didn't want to catch the pitchforks and plant those villas to any of the first dead militia out of the area? We just can't forget about it. And today we need to understand that history repeats itself. Maybe it'll happen again tomorrow. Same thing. And that is why I once again call upon you, the people's deputies, the distinguished people's deputies, to let the radio hear that we will live a normal life only when we understand. That power should be based, not on fear and humiliation, on the injustice of the people, but on fear of disobedience. When we realize that power must serve the people, not the other way around. That is why I call on all those who are not indifferent to the fate of Ukraine, to whom there is no difference in the fate of their own children, to take the most active part in the actions of non-compliance on 9 March in the protests against the current authority. If we do not realize that our destiny is in our hands, no one will ever change our lives for the better.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u165	All we need to understand is that violent disobedience is to be held accountable. So let's understand these questions. The word is given to Mihovic. Next Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u166	Ivan Mihovich, Human Rights Committee. Dear colleagues, the Head, the electorate, these days on the fourth anniversary of the imprisonment of Abdullah Ocalan, the Kurdish people in mourning over the millions of victims of the many years of liberation struggle. We hope that it will complete its freedom, as well as the collapse of the attempt to intervene worldwide against Iraq. Civil rights have been gravely violated in my hometown of Zakarpatta. Ten years ago, SDPU(o) took responsibility for our region. Today, everyone can see the disastrous effects of its domination. However, in the fall, the director of the district administration reappointed Rizak. Instead of solving acute, mature socio-economic and political problems, he was concerned with restoring the original party structures, following the instructions of his Kiev leaders. He uses the office, all the resources available. Various forms and methods of the party are used primarily by subordinate managers, including budget officials. Among the leaders, they show unfavorable, disobedient ones, and they are replaced most often according to their own desires. Thus, in six months four heads of the Reich administrations were changed. The group is looking forward to that. In the Mukativ district, for example, a compromised uncle was taken back to this position, and last year the circuit board session expressed its mistrust for gross violations of law and morals. To advance the parties in the decision-making area of Rizak by means of law enforcement, fiscal, control bodies, compromises unwanted leaders, initiates harassment in the press, uses distribution of state resources, reprivatization, existing system of rewards, special merit pensions, and so on. The governor's media advertisement has become so ugly that it's hard to imagine. He is credited with even budgeting, regular social and humanitarian assistance, sponsorship, and so forth. The merger of the state and party functions is directed at Rizak to prepare for the next presidential election. The test of her model is being carried out today on the candidates for the district council's deputy instead of the ones that have exploded. So in the Tachiv region, only one representative from the SDPU, by the way, is admitted to them. These and other facts conflict with many articles of the Constitution, the law on political parties in Ukraine. The monopolist of one party in the area causes a number of negative consequences, distorts the process of political structure, stops the socio-economic development growing population apathy, indifference, indignation at cynical manipulation of the immorality and impunity of trained areas serving the head of the presidential administration, and the sophisticated pharisaic masks the traces and results of their party activity. The predatory looting of natural resources and national goods, mass unemployment, hunger, social diseases, injustices and humiliations among my countrymen feed on regional partisanism, alienation from the state and authority, anti - Ukrainian sentiments, and migration orientations. Representatives of political parties, national and cultural societies, veteran associations are turning to us, national MPs, and the world community. I'll add it to the finish line. My predecessors, the Communists, along with other progressive forces, fought for the reunification of the Carpathians in the only Ukrainian state, turned this former colony of Austria - Hungary and the Czech Republic into a flourishing land. Today, it marks a destructive expansion. The Supreme Council, the Government, the President should think about what he's going to be with him for such a short-lived policy. My countrymen are asking for, demanding, saving us from the sneaky, insatiable pseudosocial Democrats and warning people in other regions, be alert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u167	There's no ruby. The word is given to Rephat Chubarov, next to Hinsburg. He passed the Zarubinski suit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u168	Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. This year will mark the 12th anniversary of Ukraine's independence. As in recent years, the day before that will again be marked by numerous intrusives, speeches by leading politicians, officials, and so forth. But that's not what I wanted to talk to you about. I am deeply alarmed by the concrete actions of state structures aimed at rehabilitating the leading leaders of the totalitarian regime. This is exactly the kind of assessment that I am making at the state level of official action to mark the 85th anniversary of the former Secretary of the CDC of the Szczerbitski KPU. Agree, you've got to be kidding me. A society of independent Ukraine is taking steps to honor the memory of those who were directly involved in the repression of true fighters for their independence. What happened to us? It is so easy for us to forget all those who put their lives into the struggle for dignity and honor of the Ukrainian and other nations. In my speech, I want to reaffirm once again what I said in this rostrum a few years ago. We, the Crimean Tatars, have preserved and preserved for centuries the gratitude and light of the memory of those who, in the most difficult times for our people, extended their hand to him. But we will never agree to try to enrich those who were involved in the repression and abuse of us. I want to illustrate to you the true face of the corporate leaders of the mid-'70s, which is during the reign of the Dzhrbitsky. It was on November 27, 1975, that a letter was sent to him by Crimean General Secretary Kirichenko and the heads of the Crimean region of Chemadurov, in which they, after complaints that the Crimean Tatars were trying to return to their lands, said that they were the Crimean Tatars -- they found in their actions -- I quote -- "Sakharov and Grigornka's apostates." So tell me, who are we offered to honor? Those who considered Andrew Sakharov, Peter Grigornck, Vasil Stus, Viacheslav Crnovola, and many other "sacrifices"? We have to put an end to this nonsense. We are to mark on a national level those who really fought for this state for its independence. Today, on February 21, the Crimean Tatar community is taking action in Crimea to honor the memory of General Peter Grigorovich Grigornck, a prominent Ukrainian, one of the most active actors in the legal movement of the former Soviet Union, a consistent and courageous fighter for the restoration of the rights of the Crimean Tatar people. 16 years ago, on February 21, 1927, he died in exile, in far - off America, where he was pushed away by the Soviet authorities. The last words he said to his son Andrew were, "Don't be sad, son. I don't want to live anymore because it's not life." Last night in Kiev, in the cathedral of Vladimir, there was a memorial memorial feast of Peter Grigorovich Grigornka’s memory. I want to thank those many Chinese who have come to this honor. Let us honor the true heroes of Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u169	The word is given to Olga Petrovni Hinzburg. Next Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u170	Hinzburg, Communist faction. Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! I was going to speak on a different subject, but completely. My heart has been turned over by previous performances. I can't help but start with another one. Since 1917, when the Communist Party took power, it has led the Soviet multinational people on a road that has led a backward country from a platypus to a literate, powerful country. Plants and factories, schools, roads, children’s homes, holiday homes, and all that you are currently stretching for 10 years of independence, were built by these leaders, led by these leaders, who led the Soviet people behind them. Passed by the fronts of the Great Homeland War, in 500 days and nights in 1947 the Communist Party was responsible for the rebuilding of the ruined national economy, a Soviet government. Today, when addressing its electorate, celebrations are to be held or held in all cities and villages to commemorate the Day of Fatherland’s Protector. And I, in addressing my constituents and also all the Ukrainians, to my entire nation, I want to speak with such words. Dear veterans of the Great Homeland War, soldiers of the Armed Forces of Ukraine! February 23, Day of the Soviet Army In 1918 the Red Army was born, which protected the council under Narvo, Pskov’s young country, the world’s first socialist state against foreign invaders. In this inheritance, the power of the spirit, the courage and the high patriotism of our people, are honorable. Keep going. In my native language or not, I continue to speak Russian. Dear veterans of the Great Homeland War! You've won this war, you've defeated fascism, you've worked for many peoples, and all of Europe has spoken thank you in different languages. Whosoever is with you that day knows what happiness is. Moscow was protected in 1941 and Ukraine was liberated in 1944. The word "for the family!" burning in your hearts, like a bell tower, over the graves of fallen comrades, cutting tears out on rough soldiers' faces. But history has prepared another blow for you, and on your shoulders is a struggle between labor and capital, freedom and slavery. And what inspires you in this work is the will to win, the memory of lost comrades, the love of your people, the future of your children, and you stand firm in this struggle. I want to congratulate you all today on this holiday, to wish you courage, those high feelings that you are given to experience only when you think of the high. Live long as an example of loyalty to your duty, your oath, and your Family. With a holiday!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u171	The word is given to Lechchenk, the next to Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u172	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! I want to appeal to the bourgeois bourgeois authorities of Ukraine again this spring. You have seen for yourself that the country’s presidential reform, rather than its positive effect, has resulted in devastating consequences. The Communist faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is constantly trying to push for reforming relations in agriculture for the benefit of peasants. It was only during the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that today’s gathering of Communist national deputies was initiated the Government Day at the beginning of last year’s harvest, parliamentary hearings on the progress of reforms, and measures to improve the situation in the countryside, which took place on January 15, this year. A number of bills, proposals for technology, parity of agricultural and industrial prices, lower prices for fuel-oil materials have been introduced. The central executive authorities have several parliamentary questions on specific issues of the village’s vitality. But it should be noted that these constructive actions of Communist deputies face severe opposition from the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Presidential majority in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They opposed and opposed public action, which is either parliamentary hearings or Government Day, or a report by one of the executive departments on the state of affairs in the village. The reason is that they are afraid of publicity and openness because their actions are anti - Selian, anti - state. And this is the detail: despite the frequent change of governments, the above management of the Ukrainian agro-industrial complex is constantly leading the same people in different positions -- John Kirilenko, Mikhail Glady, Sergey Rybuk, Catherine Vaszczuk, and others. These are the famous destroyers of the village of the Presidential, Anti - Selian, although by name and close to the village, the party. They are not interested in the fate and misery of peasants, although they say so. In fact, they lobby for the interests of large agribusiness in the countryside and serve faithfully to the President’s purpose to turn the land into a commodity, that is, to take it away from the peasants. And then yesterday, the presidential majority in the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not support the offer of a Communist faction to do early spring-field work, which will be extremely difficult this year, the government's report on preparations for springtime, referring to the village's assistance. We can conclude from all of this. There will be no improvement in the situation in the countryside without changing the current authority and the system of government at all in the near future. What advice can be given to peasants? First. As soon as possible, document your property rights on land and property belongings of former collective enterprises, and for no money to give them to crooks from power and bourgeoisie. The other one. Associating with landowners and property owners, registering them officially and in a group rather than alone defending their legal rights in relations with new owners. And it is even better to create our collective agricultural enterprises, cooperatives, and manage the land together. There are quite a few examples. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u173	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin. Next Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u174	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Kyiv region I appeal to my countrymen, especially the residents of the city of Fastiva and the region of Fastev, who are urged to meet with the leaders of the opposition trio, Peter Simonenko, Alexander Moroz, and Julia Timoshenko at 10 a.m. The meeting will take place in the city of Fastov in the area near the house of culture. Let's say, "No!" a criminal Qutmin oligarchic regime. And here's what I'd like to say. In our national history there is a change of scales - the white one is smeared with black ones and vice versa. Bogdan Hmelnicki is not our hero, he made the wrong decisions 300 years ago. And I'm not surprised if Vladimir Red Sunshine will also be declared an anti-Ukrainian element because they baptized Russ not in Catholicism. I would like to say a word about the outstanding son of the Soviet Ukrainian and Russian people, whose birth date was 13 February this year. This remarkable man was born in the town of Taráš Kyiv oblast, and grew up a boy in the village of Mlinok near the village of Reprik of the Fastov region in Kiev. And they didn't come there once at a mature age in postwar years. He died and was buried in Moscow in 1994. I went to 79 schools in Kiev. In the 1930s, he graduated from Kiev University and was assigned to the Institute of Physics and Technology of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR. 45-46 years old, Director of the Institute of Physical Problems of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR. During this period, it is working on the creation of nuclear reactors of various uses, from nuclear power plants to submarines. The academic, President of the Academy of Sciences of the Soviet Union, MP of the Supreme Council of the USSR, member of the CPS since 62, awarded the six Orders of Lenin, three times the Hero of Social Work, winner of the Lenin Prize, four times the winner of the State Prize. His name is Anatoly Petrovich Aleksandrov. Thus, the current Ukrainian and Russian public have been virtually blinded by the century since its birth. Why? I will only make one point in the Ukrainian context. After the Chernobyl nuclear accident, his name was turned into a “couple” of the Soviet totalitarian regime. And I'll say one thing in prison. That is not true! The truth is different, and it will be a short time when the name of this great man will be fully vindicated and a proper memorial will be given to him in his homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u175	Mikola Evtichovich Melnik, next Winsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u176	Mikola Melnik, Ukrainian Socialist Party I'm glad to say right now from this rostrum that the socialists in this room are in almost full composition. Some deny it, but it's our Ukraine. What am I gonna do? The honourable voters, the honourable deputies who are now in this room! On February 7, 2003, an agrarian meeting took place with the participation of President Leonid Danilovich Kuchma of Ukraine. The agrarian talks told the President of the total failure of the agro-industry complex, prompting that the decline in agriculture could have tragic consequences for the Ukrainian State. In modern Ukraine there is a mass poverty of rural people, a half - hungry life of part of them, a complete halt to rural construction. This is the result of extremely low, plundering purchase prices for agricultural produce, meat, sugar, and so on, resulting in increased social tensions in the countryside, the reluctance of young people to live and work in rural areas. Our president, after listening to the agrarians, suffered a great deal of anxiety and heartache over the tragic fate of the village. On the other hand, in all the peasants of Kuchma, Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovich was ordered to work on the concept of immediate action to eliminate the severe consequences of the management of government officials in the Blacklands of Ukraine. The peasants ’ boisterous applause read Leonid Kuchma’s words to pour themselves into euphoric consumption for the immense trust and hope that they have lost to our President in recent years. Two weeks later, fuel prices rose by 10 percent, meat prices decreased by 5 percent, electricity prices rose, imports of sugar in Odessa were heated, and free zones ran through endless flow of meat, milk, and so forth. The Oblenergo leadership continues to shut down the supply of electricity to tractor brigades, the payment of light, and so on. Taxpayers continue to destroy the SPS with fines deliberately planned by the Cabinet. In recent times, prices have gone up, and they have gone to minivans and yadchemics. I and all the villagers who were present during the Pascal task of President Prime Minister are very surprised by the inaction of our Prime Minister. It remains unclear whether the President has the power to force the Prime Minister to carry out his presidential duties and orders. Ignoreed by the Prime Minister’s commission to the President, who saw and sought to mitigate the effects of the devastating pressure on an agribusiness complex by businessmen, tax collectors, and bankers. Using media to highlight the meetings of the Supreme Council, I openly appeal to the President of Ukraine, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, asking for guidance on the true course of the Prime Minister, who has no right to ignore the mandate and order of the guarantor of the Constitution. The peasants question the sincerity of the mandate of the guarantor of the Constitution and speak of another lie by the President of the peasants. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u177	The word is given to Joseph Vicentiovich of Winski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u178	I would like to familiarize myself with the statement made by the Socialist Party of Ukraine. "The crisis in the economy, in the political and social sphere of Ukraine is particularly exacerbating the criminal zones that actually operate under the patronage of the highest authority. Ironically, this is what special economic zones have become. Today, there are 11 and 9 priority areas in Ukraine. Investment projects have been created that included foreign capital for the economic development of the territories. They, however, have become areas where the most criminalised groups operate, which under the cover of the law are laundering funds from the state's budget. In fact, some of these have become latrines for illegal imports of food products, food supplies for law enforcement and customs, for the Tinning of the Agrarian Market, for the smuggling of goods. They serve, not the interests of the people, but the interests of the oligarchs. Nor did counting on our transit potential, free economic zones, Crimea port and Kovel interport. Since 1998, socialists have repeatedly addressed the Supreme Council against the thoughtless creation of free economic zones, exposing them to the damaging effect of forming state - owned budgets. It is well - known that the excessive in their territory have been criticized by international organizations. At the suggestion of, among other things, members of the socialist community, the tax and excise goods and foodstuffs that are sold or imported within the framework of the CEZ have been abolished. It was the socialists who cosponsored the Food and Food Safety Act, which made the insurmountable introduction of inefficient raw materials uncontrollable. Foods, especially baby food with bio-addled foods. For a long time, the creation of free economic zones in Ukraine was lobbyed by the presidential political forces in the Supreme Council, which used them as a mechanism for enriching regional clans. Now that the serious economic and budgetary distortions became apparent, President Leonid Kuchma, who had signed the laws on the creation of CEZ, joined the critics of the special zones. As they say, it's better late than never. But who will compensate the billions of dollars lost by Ukraine, allowing criminal clans to fatten and launder money through imperfect legislation and the creation of a special regime to promote all kinds of developments, an international criminal organization in our country? The faction of Ukraine's Socialist Party in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, understanding the full responsibility of the state's highest legislative body, insists that all economic zones in Ukraine should be stopped. An interdisciplinary commission should be established to identify and resolve all these issues related to the investigation of activities and the elimination of zones. People need to know what gave CEZs to develop the economy, build businesses, create new jobs, etc. In doing so, it is important to keep the mode of promotion as far as possible for those investors who have invested in manufacturing rather than in eating or importing nonessentially dependent products. There is a need to introduce a moratorium on free economic zones for the next decade. We believe that these inter-ministerial commissions, together with the Attorney-General's Office, need to monitor the economic losses of the state, the local budgets, the social infrastructure and the domestic producer from the activities of the CEZ and their impact on the domestic market on the goods produced in sufficient quantities in Ukraine, to analyse the impact. The APC, companies of light industry and those that are destroyed by inefficient raw materials imported through holes in these areas. All of this needs to be done immediately in order to protect Ukraine from serious calculations and losses in national economic policy, to prevent criminal clans from benefiting from the good of the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u179	For replication, please give the floor to Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u180	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I am now speaking as a representative of the faction of the United Social Democrats in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because I am authorized by this faction. Mihovich Ivan Ivanovich spoke of the Social Democratic Party, member of her party Rizak Ivan Mihajlovich. [[united]] I'd like to make the following statement. With regard to the destructive role of SDPU, I would like to remind you that today we were not involved in events that were, indeed, tragic for the development of our country, we are not involved in the famine of the 1930s, we are not involved in the repression of NCDs, we are not involved in the deforestation of the Carpathian forests in the 1950s or 1960s. In addition, I want to tell you that the United Social Democrats are a consistent political force that operates on the basis of their installation and programming documents, which you were able to see yesterday. As far as the role of local administrations is concerned, they seem to serve the Presidential Administration. Today, I would like to remind you that, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, local government administrations are subordinated to the government of the country and to the administration of the President, and this is a constitutional norm. Following. John Rizak, indeed, is a member of the U.S.S.S.A., who is a member of Ukraine's fourth vocation, which, after his appointment as head of the state administration, has assumed authority under the Constitution. You accused him of pushing. Indeed, he exerts pressure on those who today avoid paying taxes and who today do not pay wages to people. And if the State budget is executed by 99.5 percent in the country as a whole, 107 percent in Zakarpat. There must be criticism. But we have to respect each other, not insult each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u181	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! We're gonna call each other now, and we're not gonna end up like this today. Two words. All of it. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u182	Dear colleagues and voters! I would ask against this misinformation, for the Ukrainian people who began under the leadership of Governor Ustić in 1994 the deforestation and mass destruction of the forests that were the heirs of this governor. Today’s governor has been in power for all these years as the first deputy head of administration. I don't remind you of the disgraceful referendum, the presidential election, the gross violations of the consequences of natural disasters, and a lot of things.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-21-m0.u183	Ladies and gentlemen! Let's finish! You can't do that! What do we blame each other for?Oh, my God! You can't do that! All right, let's get this over with. I now declare the plenary sessions closed. Next week we're working with you in the districts. We're starting the plenary meetings on March 4th. Taking this opportunity, I would like to welcome everyone with the celebration of Motherland’s Day, the desire for health and harmony, the cloudless peaceful heavens. Good luck to you!
