ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. I'd like you, your honor, to prepare for registration. Turn on the glade system, please log in. [[10:02:04]] Registered -430 There are 430 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. I think we can even make decisions today. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikoko Mihajlovich. Let us welcome him and wish him health and success in his responsible parliamentary work as head of the parliamentary group. [[Applause]] By Friday’s Rules, we discuss matters according to the schedule of meetings. You have a list of the questions that are proposed for consideration today. The Rules do not provide for the consideration of parliamentary requests. But since there are so many of them, with your permission, they could be voted on as MPs. No objections? Thank you. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Vladimir Leschenko - the Attorney General of Ukraine - for the establishment of a service in the offices of the Internal Affairs of the citizen of Visocsky at the time of the road and transport accident, with the result of an air traffic accident in the village of the town of Korop, Chernigiv region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:03:40]] For 132 Decision taken. Constantine Sitnik, to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the cessation of violations by the National Deputy of Ukraine Alexander Stoyan of the oath, the Constitution of Ukraine, which resulted in the incompatibility of his regular activities with the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine and the parliamentary mandate. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:17]] For-174 Decision taken. Peter Cibenk, to the Kiev City Head on dissatisfaction with the response to the request of the Ukrainian National Deputies for the transfer of the property complex of the "Zoryan" cinema to the Kiev City Veterans' Organization. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:48]] For-127 Decision taken. Igora Tarasyuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of the conditions of activity and the development of the spiritual Marisian Center, in the village of Zarvanica, Terebovljana district, Ternopil district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:22]] For 134 Decision taken. Mr. Mikoli Polishchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Health for the violation of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. When assigned to managerial positions in higher education institutions, the state form of property. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:58]] For 172 Decision taken. Vladimir Bondar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the administrative pressure of the Volin district administration on the breadth sector of the region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:26]] For-167 Decision taken. Eugene Kirilchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in response to unsatisfying requests for the protection of the rights of Ukrainian citizens affected from nuclear tests at the Semipalatinsk Peninsula. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:58]] For 177 Decision taken. Anatolia Átovajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the new horizon and the elimination of the crisis situation on the mine of Karl Marx of the city of Jenakiyev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:29]] For-153 Decision taken. Mr. Mikoli Polishchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, President of the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, on the use of measures to prevent pre-existing infections among the population of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:59]] For 218. Decision taken. Eugene Kirilczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the unsatisfactory service of the population from the repair and repair of mailboxes in the large-scale houses of the city of Lucca. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:31]] For 177 Decision taken. Leonidas Grač to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the manifestations of the national extremist and Russianophobic forces and the prevention of inter-national hostility. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:59]] For-127 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies: Chandra, Lebedivsky, Catherinechuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation of a unique monument to the architecture of the eighteenth century of St. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:33]] For-141 Decision taken. Vladimir Yeshchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing and reconstruction of clean-up facilities in the city of Złotonoša Cherka. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:58]] For 177 Decision taken. Alexander Shevchenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers Decision of 25 December 2002 on the amendment to the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 19 April 2002 No. 551 "For the approval of the list of objects financed by the State-owned capital investments in 2002". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:40]] For 116 Decision taken. Sergia Slabenko and Vladimir Bondar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of a programme for capital construction in the electoral districts in 2003. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:07]] For-141 Decision taken. Boris Bespalog to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for his dissatisfaction with the response to the request for information on pension insurance. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:32]] For-129 Decision taken. Viktor Yushchenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the transfer of gas networks to the village of Zarvanica of Terebovljan district of Ternopil. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:59]] For 148 Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the long-standing failure to resolve the issue of the removal of building defects in the received apartments in the city of Hmielnicki by citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:30.]] For 224 Decision taken. Andrija School to Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to prosecute 34 trucks with smuggled goods at Galician Customs. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:01]] For 190 Decision taken. John Plush to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the elimination of monthly allowances for military personnel of special aviation law, the Ministry of Emergency Situations and People's Protection from the Chernobyl disaster, which exacerbates their material status, social protection. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:37]] For 237 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies Tsuzko, Pisarenko and others to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for violation of article 49 of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2002 by the Pension Fund. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:08]] For 219 Decision taken. Mikoli Kroutz to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the execution on the spot of a decree by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the payment in 2002 of Ukrainian citizens' cash savings invested until 2 January 1992 in the institution of the former Federal Reserve Bank of the Soviet Union operating in Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:51]] For 172 Decision taken. Valentina Savitsky to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the payment of the debt from the relief and compensation to the liquidators of the accident in CHAES Baraniv district of the Žitomir region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:21]] For-187 Decision taken. Michael Wolinz to Vice Prime Minister Vitali Hayduk of Ukraine on the crisis situation in the state holding company Pavlogradwogil in connection with the non-payment of wages. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:50]] For 202 Decision taken. Valentina Savitsky to the first Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the payment of arrears from salaries paid to teachers of the Novograd Wallin region of the Žitomir region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:22]] For-166 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the situation in society with limited responsibility "Molkomcent" of the city of Kirovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:48]] For-163 Decision taken. Mikoli Katerinczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the death of the judge of the Court of Appeal of the Winnitsk Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:14]] For 132 Decision taken. Alexander Golub to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the situation in the closed-circuit company of the city of Borislav Lviv district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:42]] For 148 Decision taken. Vladislav Otroszczenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failure by the State Executive Service of the Ministry of Justice of Kyiv of the District, Court of Appeal and Supreme Court of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:11]] For-170. For a total of 170, the decision is made. Leonidas Grač to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the response to the violation of the rights and freedoms of the multinational population of Crimea, and the violation of it on the national level. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:40]] For 158. For 158, the decision is made. Alexander Golub to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of the gravity and abuse of office as investigator for the Fastew Interstate Prosecutor’s Office in the Kyiv region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:08]] For-143 For 143, the decision's been made. Dmitry Sandler to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the improper treatment of law enforcement officials in the area of Ternopil. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:39]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Michael Dobkin to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the compliance of the current legislation with the Ukrainian State Customs Order on the arrangements for the establishment of medium-term contract prices. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:08]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Sergia Bichkov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures to investigate the murder in the city of Dnipropetrovsk, entrepreneur Eugene Nikolayev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:34]] For 210 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin - to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine - on the facts of the abolition of Odessa law enforcement officials, their illegal contribution to the fictitious bankruptcy of the Society with limited responsibility for the South Grain Company. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:08]] For-126 Decision taken. Istwan Haydosh - the Attorney General of Ukraine - on the rightfulness of the alienation and privatization of the land area of the Mukativ boarding school for orphans, Zakarpatsk district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:40]] For 171 Decision taken. Viktor Drachewski - to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine - to pay off the Department's debt of execution of the sentences of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine in the Dnipropetrovsk region before the Aurora Agricultural Society. [[10:22:10]] For 106 Decision taken. I'm just asking the Secretariat to clarify. Since the Department of Punishment does not belong to the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Mikoli Katerinczuka - to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine - for the provision of equipment to the Kalinj district hospital of Winnitsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:43]] For-166 Decision taken. Alexander Colonyari to the Ukrainian Minister of Health for Health and Health. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:08]] For 180. Decision taken. Viktor Drachewski to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine to increase the state of territorial inspection to monitor compliance with legislation on work in the city of Nicopol, Dnipropetrovsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:38]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Sergia Slabenka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding computerization of schools in Volinsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:01]] For 116 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights regarding the situation that arose in connection with the liquidation of the preschool institute in Kirovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:30.]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Valentina Semenyuk, head of the State Committee on Information Policy, Television and Radio Broadcasting in Ukraine In connection with the inadmissibility of protecting the Ukrainian national deputy to the 1+1 television company, to participate in the television broadcast for which it was officially invited. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:06]] For 172 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the head of the State Committee on Land Resources of Ukraine, the head of the Kirovograd District State Administration regarding the granting of land to social workers of the village of Pavlić Kyrovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:36]] For-123 Decision taken. Michael Dobkin, head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service, on the misconduct of officials of the Black Sea Regional Customs. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:02]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Groups of National Deputies - Bespalij, Assadchev and others to the head of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Markets on illegal actions of the authorized State Commission of Securities and Stock Market of Golovk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:33]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Yeshchenka to the head of the Cerka District State Administration for the financing of drinking water for the inhabitants of Špola. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:02]] For 133 Decision taken. Mikoli Pesocki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine, on the inadequacy of the creation of a state-wide security and maritime enterprise, the Sea State Administration of the Dniprodous Seaport. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:36]] For-100 Anatolia Franchuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding the Radgosop of the Bahchisarai Plant in connection with the insistence on its membership in private structures. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:08]] For-96 Decision taken. Mikoli Piscio to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the theft of property of a rental company of decorative culture and gardening in Lugansk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:36]] For-83 The decision is not taken. All requests have been voted on. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an offer that can bribe you with its novelty. Maybe we should vote now and decide to vote on issues related to the administrative system. That's an offer. And then put in the agenda of the day with a package that we didn't include yesterday so that we could work on it. So, honourable colleagues, I'm putting a motion for a vote to now take ad hoc and vote for us to take a decision on the proposed issues. Please vote. [[10:29:38]] Z-70. You see, the decision has been made: There is no decision in the 70 ’ s. Let us turn to Friday’s meeting. A draft law on the order of election and dismissal of a professional judge by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Deputy Head of Legal Policy Committee Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u2	Your Honourable Head, the noble national MPs. Your view is on the draft Ukrainian Law on the Order of Election and Liberation of Judges, which is chosen and recognized by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To the history of the question. The point is that today the question of how judges are elected is regulated in a timely manner by the Supreme Council Order, which was adopted in 1997 and predicted that it regulates these relations to their legislative regulations. In addition, after 1997, he was adopted by the Law on Sudokustre, which substantially changed the whole range of issues related to the settlement of the relationship between the appointment of judges and their dismissal. As a result, there was an urgent need for a legislative solution to these issues, and it was for this purpose that a draft of the Ukrainian Law "On the Order of Election and Discharge of Professional Judge of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" was introduced. The drafters of this bill are national deputies: Vasiliev, Moses, Bandurko and Sirenko. This is Project No. 2560. At the same time, a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was also submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the same issue, which was made by the National Deputies of Onischuk and the People’s Deputy of Pecklusenko. In fact, both of these legislative initiatives apply to the same subject, and they are designed to significantly improve the order of the legislative settlement of the appointment of judges. Without stopping in detail from the content of this law, I will report on the most important innovations of this order that may cause your interest and should be disrupted. First. This innovation involves the fact that, from now on, the authorities of the State Administration are obliged to publish in the media, where the judge works or works, a violation of the court’s appointment must be made public. In order for voters, citizens, and other interested persons to be able to address both the Supreme Council and the qualified committees that have previously considered these submissions and to express their attitude toward this proposal for the election of a judge. The other one. Competitive arrangements are in place to prepare applications for the replacement of judges on an uninterrupted basis. Third. It is predicted that such a submission should be disrupted and that the preparation of the materials concerning the judge should not be later than three months before the end of their term of office. The problem is that today in the Supreme Council, when you and I are considering the appointment of judges, the majority of them are already due, that is, they are no longer acting as judges and are awaiting their appointment in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To a large extent, this is caused by the fact that legislation does not provide for a deadline before the powers are completed for the introduction of this judge. The bill foresees that no later than three months, even in other proposals, they are already coming to the committee so that it may be four or five months for the judge to work, even when he is in office when he votes here in the Supreme Council to work as a judge rather than wait for his appointment. The draft law regulates the procedures for the transfer of judges. By the way, I'm paying attention to you, Your Honor, that we're dealing with the appointment of a judge, by electing him as a judge on an untimely basis, such as an appeal court or a local court, but also to the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the decision to transfer him also applies to the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For example, when he works as a judge of a local court in one area and because of the need or personal circumstances, he wants to be transferred to another local court in the same area but to another area. It is precisely when this decision can be made not administratively but only by the Supreme Council itself. True, the procedure for preparing documents in such cases is somewhat different. Individually, honourable members of the national parliament, the procedure for reviewing the submissions is also envisaged by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine itself, which is not actually settled today. Special attention is paid to appeals made by national deputies regarding the candidates. The committee is supposed to form a special commission in such cases, which will consider the appeal of a national MP or another interested person and will bring him to the committee’s consideration. And in closing, my honourable colleagues, I want to tell you that the settled is also a very important other question, which is now actually outside the regulatory framework. This is how many times can be submitted to the Supreme Council if the Supreme Council has rejected the appointment of a judge once in a row. The draft law stipulates that this process can take place only twice, no more than twice. If the judge is not elected by the Supreme Council of the Renewal, he is said to be off the hook, and he is to be released. Naturally, with the adoption of this law, the validity of the 1997 decree has been lost, as I have already said, which is, to a large extent, out of date, because it does not correspond to the position of the new legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u3	Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! But you insist that we follow the rules. So I'm going according to the schedule, we're going under the shorter procedure. Have a seat, please. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. Prepare Michael Melniczuk. Put on a sign for those who sign up for the talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u4	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Every time we assign judges to office, we see that this process is going on perfectly, completely formally, and exactly the same way that judges and judges feel. Of course, a bill is needed, but not exactly such a bill, more specifically, is not needed at all. In fact, these issues should be settled in the Law on the Status of Judges, a part of these issues should be settled in the Law on the Superior Council of Justice, they comply with these laws and, by adopting this law, they will have to be amended in both laws. So you have to make changes to the law on the court system. The project deals only with the release of judges elected on an indefinite basis by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but this order does not extend to those appointed for the first time by the President of Ukraine, who is also dismissed by the President of Ukraine. There's absolutely no release. What order do you want to do this? It's all done freely, in matters of relevance. And now that the country's being completely resupplyed, you realize that it's also dangerous for Ukraine. There are such observations that the regulations on the procedure for the selection of judges on an indefinite basis, which was accepted, were to be included here in this project almost entirely, because it is obsolete and does not have the legal power. I consider it appropriate to provide additional mandatory materials regarding the election of judges, the number of civil criminal cases that have been considered. The average burden on a judge compared to the average rate for a country, an area, a particular court; the number of amended and revoked judgements, the court's judgments compared to the average rate for a country, an area; the number of cases involving alteration and cancellation of decisions, judgments and the determination of the parties to a court; a copy of the court's decision; copies of the decision of the court that changed or cancelled; the number of individual decisions put forward; the number of complaints brought against the judge to the judicial authorities, the courts of quality. the commission of judges, the law enforcement authorities; the outcome of the proceedings; the number of criminal courts being violated because we have criminal cases being investigated after a year and they are sentencing and deciding. Ukraine's decision. The number of disciplines that have been violated in relation to the judge, the consequences of their consideration. For such materials to be submitted, the head of the committee must address the head of the Supreme Court, the head of the Supreme Economic Authority, the head of the State Judicial Administration, to prepare the submission of the relevant materials. Only such a law would ensure the rule of law in that country and the rule of the Constitution. I believe that we should be accepted in the first reading, but it is imperative that we consider these additions to the article, say, 6 and the mass of other articles and laws that I have called them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u5	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u6	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The motivation behind this bill is that the issue of much of the law on the judiciary is not settled. But I still stand in the position of listening to the thought and the ministry of justice on this matter. To make some adjustments to the Rules and Regulations of the Supreme Council in this regard. After all, according to the bill that the National MPs were working on, I have some comments and suggestions. It would be appropriate to amend the law on the judiciary, especially in part six of article 61, by mentioning here a reference in this bill and in the law on the Supreme Council of Justice. It should be noted that the bill refers to the release of judges elected to positions on an indefinite basis only by the Supreme Council. The release of judges for the first time remains uncertain. Here my colleague Karmazin has already cited these examples. This is particularly true of the appointment of judges by the President of Ukraine, article 126 of the Ukrainian Constitution. And legislatively, this order should be determined upon application by the Higher Council of Justice. It is correct to note that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office for the appointment of judges by the President of Ukraine for the first time. Because article 29 of the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Council of Justice. Only arrangements are made for the appointment of judges for the first time. And this is defined in section 2, article 61 of Ukraine’s law on the judiciary. However, the procedure for considering the appointment of a judge is not defined by the President. There's a lot of inadequacies in the Sudokus Act, especially with regard to district qualification committees, to their composition. Please take the county commission of Lvivsk. This includes six areas, we know that only six judges can join a qualified commission. Thus, representation from one district is made up of one judge on this commission. And I would like a few words about judicial reform. We need to identify ourselves immediately on these issues as well. One day must be set aside and dealt with the issue of judicial reform in Ukraine. Because we're delaying this trial and it's decided on the work of judges. And last of all, I want to make this statement. In the Chernobyl area, the Novoseltsky region began a hunt for Judge Dodek Mikola Stepanović by the district government and those who find him inconvenient. And this is done with the help of the press, with the help of some members of the Supreme Council. I think it's a basic judge, he's got to be protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u7	Mikhailo Antonovich Pavlovski, faction of the Tymoshenko bloc
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u8	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Julia Timoshenko's faction. Hmelnschin's motherland. Dear fellow national MPs, distinguished journalists, voters, I want to draw attention to one side. I propose in this law that you write out more clearly the procedure for the release of judges. The criteria must be set out because today, the previous speaker has already spoken about it, the issue is being politicized. And on orders from the administration, the president or the locals, they release those judges who fight for democracy or who make fair decisions. We already have experience with Judge Zamkovenko. We may still face the problem of Judge Vasilenko, who is known to have violated a criminal case against the President in many articles. And it goes like a political order. So it is in this law that we have to write out the appropriate criteria and standards so that even the Higher Council of Justice cannot deviate from these standards, because we know and in this room we have seen that it is very easy to carry out political orders today in our country. It's on the one side. On the other hand, as in the selection process, there is essentially an opportunity for public debate, the law allows for public discussion of the judge, and so in the release symmetrically should be the possibility to discuss this issue publicly in order to at least a little lessen the influence of the administrative resources, the influence of the political orders that are present in our country today. So our faction suggests that in order to make these changes, and they're essential, you can make them, you can still offer them for the first time again. Because if we have experience on our first reading, the amendment is not supported by the committee, then no one will ever support it again. So we've ruled out this opportunity to support the amendments in the voting process. So I'm going to re-read it. And this chapter of "Freedom" makes it objective to slightly reduce the dependence of the judicial branch of power on the Presidential Administration and executive structures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u9	Yes, thank you, too, Mikhailo Antonovich. Please, from the Ministry of Justice, Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, if you'd like, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u10	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! In general, in agreement with those questions that really need to be regulated by the procedure for the selection and release of professional judges, the Ministry of Justice believes that, as such, it is not necessary because, in our opinion, we simply need to amend the Law on the Status of Judges, the Law on the Higher Council of Justice and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine where all these issues can be regulated. Why? Because first of all, the proposed draft law duplicates both the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws that already regulate the procedure for the selection of judges and their release. In addition, the proposed project does not allow for any breach of design standards that are not allowed. There is also a duplication of a number of standards that are already provided for by other laws. So in the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, we just need to make changes, I repeat, to the laws that are already in force. This will simplify the procedure and really regulate the serious issues raised regarding the election and release of judges. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u11	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft law on the order of election and dismissal of a professional judge by the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been completed. The decision will be made on the day of the vote, taking into account the discussion. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Radio Frequency Act is being announced for consideration. Out of procedure, please, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a question, and on what basis is he even included in today's consideration, if the previous schedule does not include this issue at all. There was a different law in the field of radio communication, and so on, but that was not the case, we were not ready for it as a minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u13	I'm asking you to give me information from the Secretariat right now, but the point is that those bills we haven't been able to look at are going from the last few days. I'm going to ask you now, and I'm going to tell you. Please, Sergey Doroguntsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I would like to contact you in connection with an agreed discussion of matters at the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council. Today, we start directly with the questions of everyone by the reduced procedure. This is another means of removing deputies from active participation in the discussion of all issues, some of which could even be solved by asking questions. I never felt as useless in the hall as I am now. Do you understand? Working here since 1990, I have never felt as alone as I am now. We don't need anyone here, because we're gonna listen to two for, two for, and then we're gonna move on. I'd like to go back to this question, give the task to the regulatory committee so that one day the MP might feel at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear Sergey Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! We've planned 160 drafts this week, plus we've been pushing for more bills. I think the main work is going on, you know me better on the committees. And here's just a process of sanctification, if you want. I think, Sergey Ivanovich, if you have any questions, if they arise, please, there will be no questions. I think we always work calmly, retreat where we need to, from the established procedure to reconcile all positions. This is what we will do in this case. So let us now go to the draft Law on the introduction into certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Radio Frequency Act, and the secretariat asks for information on this matter. Hennaday Andriyovich says Yuri Lucenko that the question for this week was planned. Please, Jan Sergiyovich, head of the State Committee on Television and Radio. Please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! It is proposed that you consider the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts in connection with the adoption on June 1, 2000, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Act on Radio Frequency Resources of Ukraine. In line with the practice of European countries and the need to bring our legislation to a European level, the law introduces a new institution for Ukraine’s communications and radio frequency. With a view to harmonising Ukrainian legislation on governance issues in the radio spectrum of Ukraine, there was a need to harmonize the separate standards of earlier laws on television and radio broadcasting in Ukraine, the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting, and the Act on Radio Frequency Resources in Ukraine. Such changes are proposed. First. To article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on the National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting, to introduce the rule that television and radio organizations licensed to speak, the Communications and Radio Administration licenses the use of radio frequencies in order to be determined by the National Council. The other one. Article 28 of the Ukrainian Act "On the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting" and Article 5 of the Television and Radio Act complement them with the rules that provide for the National Council of Ukraine to be responsible for television and radio broadcasting when developing rules for the use of the channels of speech, must agree with the Communications and Radio Administration. And make changes to article 28 of the National Broadcasting and Television Council Act, which states that according to the National Council, the Communications and Radio Administration, it assigns radio frequencies to the needs of television and radio. And another addition is to replace in the text of the Television and Broadcasting Act the words "the Permanent Commission of the Supreme Council" with the words "the Committee of the Supreme Council" in accordance with the 89th article of the Constitution of Ukraine. Acceptance and implementation of the proposed changes will not require additional material and other costs. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u17	Any questions? Please, Vitaly Shibko. Five minutes to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u18	Vitaly Shibko, Ukrainian Socialist Party Ivan Sergiyovich, you know that there is such a practice if someone bought some space or it was issued under a license, it may not be fully used. For example, he bought this range, and he uses about 5 percent and he only pays for 5 percent, and the other area walks. So I'd like to know what you're seeing, is that the right thing to do? Or if someone got it, stole it, more faithfully, they should pay for everything, not store it for something for the future, and then either trade it, or hold it for something? I'd like to know your vision of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u19	Thank you, Victor Yakovich. The National Broadcasting and Broadcasting Board, which is its competence, usually licenses 24 hours of speech for a full period of time. And that's why, of course, you're right, it's impossible, as it were, to reserve a radio frequency resource for yourself, because it's an extremely strategic resource of the state, and we're completely in the same position here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u20	Yuri Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u21	Dear John Sergiyovich, I have a question for you. Please explain to the deputies what is the liaison administration, who, which authority specifically performs this function, is the first? And secondly, on what basis does the Television Foundation actually deny the right to issue licences?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u22	Thank you for asking. I'll explain. Back in the past, the Supreme Council adopted a law that tried to create an organ that would not be narrow-minded, which could be managed by a radio-frequency national resource for the benefit of the entire state, not the specific authority. And such administrations exist in European countries. That's what we've come up with now by changing the legal nature of law in fact into other legislation. The Supreme Council passed such a law. Today, this issue is within the purview jurisdiction of the Ukrainian National Radio and Communications Center, which is part of the Communication. If such an administration is created, then this is part of an administration that is outside of the essentially informed body, well, as stipulated by legislation. I gave you an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u23	Alexander Baraniski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u24	Well, you said who today. Circumstances and Cross-Viewing are now under control. And with regard to the National Council, the National Council is not deprived, and all the principles of today are preserved. Today, too, the National Council accepts the license, and the right to frequency is given by Cross-View. Everything is preserved, only the organ is called the lake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u25	Alexandre Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u26	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear John Sergiyovich, I have any doubt as to whether this law should be adopted at all and not only this one, but all that concerns your sphere of influence. Not so long ago, I spoke at a session of the Supreme Council and I asked you correctly that Ivan Sergiyovich, your subordinates, especially the Zitomir Broadcasting Company, led by Boyko, ignores, tramples on the law on the status of the national MP. I asked you to influence him so that the video would be shown. I mean, after my speech, Boyko did absolutely nothing and you didn't influence him. And what's more, he's already retired, and you've been with him for two years, according to my data, to continue his contract for his work. Then should such a law be enforced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u27	This law brings, once again, the rules of existing legislation in line with decisions taken by the Supreme Council through law. That's why he's obviously needed. As for the influence on the leaders, I met with the heads of the state radio company on the same day and gave appropriate instructions that I should avoid violating the rights of national MPs and making their legal rights publicly available on the air. I think that Boyko also explained that your program will necessarily be on the air, and it is about political reform. I think it's settled. Just think about it, dear fellows, for that matter. If even 225 MPs want to get on the air in a company in the world, it can't be divided. There's a mechanism. But we're dealing with this clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u28	Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear John Sergiyovich, my question concerns the very meaning of the term "national council." Now we have national councils, national commissions, other entities that are hiding under this definition -- "national." Please explain to me why this council dealing with specific matters is called "national"? And is there really a national content in this council’s work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u30	This is a question before the Constitution of Ukraine, it prescribed such an organ that is not known, constitutional, which affects the national situation in general as the National Council on Television and Radio. I think it does function as a national value. This is my vision. Thank you, Yuri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u31	Thank you. Time's up. A report from the Committee, Stanislaw Long, from the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing, and Communications. Long Stanislaw Alexiyovich. Then there will be a report from the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Very short, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u32	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Construction, Transportation of Housing and Communications, at its meeting on 23 October 2002, reviewed the draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of Ukraine's Radio Frequency Act. The bill provides for amendments to the television, radio and national councils of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting in order to bring them into compliance with Ukraine's Radio Frequency Act. Adopted by the Supreme Council on June 1, 2000. The changes relate to the competence of the National Television and Radio Broadcasting Board to develop and agree with the Ukrainian communications and radio administration, the rules on the use of language channels, the control of distribution and the use of radio frequency resources for broadcasting, and the order in which television organizations, users of licenses to use radio frequencies are issued. The committee notes that the individual provisions of the bill do not comply with the provisions of the Radio Frequency Act. During the discussion, members of the committee concluded that the committee recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a bill as a basis for the first reading, in order to bring it into line with the law "On Radio Frequency Resources of Ukraine" in preparation for the second reading, which also coincided with the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, do you have a question? Please note, if not, that we will listen to another report. Please point it on the board. Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u34	Dear reporter, here again, I'd like to make this very clear. There is a proposal in this bill to define the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting, and to license channels. But this order under the Radio Frequency Act belongs to Kabmin. Do you support this position or not? And the second. With regard to communications management. So figure out what this is going to be, because in a country like Ukraine, every new piece is being considered, you know, as suspicious. It's the apriors of something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u35	Thank you. First question. Part four of article 22 is supplemented by the following phrase after the first sentence: The radio organizations that have a language license, the administration of communications, and the radio frequency of Ukraine in the order established by the National Council are licensed to use radio frequencies. So it's just radio frequencies. With regard to communications administration, there is the International Union for Electricity, which relies on a government authority in each country to function as a liaison authority. This is not a separate government, it is a function that the International Power Union performs in which the State is entrusted with these functions. And this body basically only performs interstate functions in international cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u36	Obviously, it has to be written in the law that there is a body that performs the function of communications administration and radio frequency, and still goes beyond the text. And so we're going to have to understand that we need another structure to create and give authorizations, offices, transportation and phones, and all that. You have to write it right now. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u37	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Stanislav Alexiyovich, you propose to make changes, not you, but to make changes in particular that make the rules for using the channels of speech and agreeing with the administration of the communication and radio frequency of Ukraine mandatory. Before you've been asked, what's more, for terradio organizations that already have language licenses, where everything was supposed to be, we're again giving additional regulation to the administration. Please tell me, do you know what your last name will be? I mean, who's doing this, I want to understand, because I can't see any good from this? I'm sorry, I don't see any good from this, from what's added to the extra and unnecessary barriers to this activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u38	Okay, thanks. And once again, I want to say that this isn't a government authority, it's a function that relies on a government body. So reconciliation can only be with Cross-View, which is really responsible for the national frequency table and which forms a national table, agrees with all the neighbouring countries, the International Union of Electricity, the European Union, so that frequencies don't intersect anywhere, and on the same frequencies there are, for example, as planned digital Europeans, and some operators are working in this range as well. Thus, in order to perform international reconciliation functions, the liaison administration performs this representative function. There will be no last name in the communications administration. Unless there are any other individual organs that are additional to what is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u39	Thank you, Stanislav Alexiyovich, sit down, time is up. A report from the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information has been given by the First Deputy Head of the Committee, National MP Artemenko. Deputy, have you been promoted? Well, you'll be the first deputy, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u40	Thank you. Our committee has considered the draft law at its meeting and considers it necessary to recommend that the deputies reject it and there are several reasons for it. First of all, we think that the adoption of this bill will be premature, because we've already discussed new texts, and yesterday we voted in favour of a new bill on advertising, and on the committee we've looked at new laws on the National Council on Television and Radio and Television and a bill on a new law on television and radio broadcasting, and there are some standards that are already taken into account. Secondly, we consider this to be an entirely wrong political decision if this law is adopted. First, there were parliamentary hearings, we talked about greater freedom for our information space, we chose the National Council with you, and for the first time now, eight people in the full composition of the National Council are working, including representatives there and from the Supreme Council, who are defending our interests, and at the same time we are accepting with you, we are trying to convince ourselves to adopt this bill in which the same freedom of speech, the same order of getting the frequency, are trying to fail. I just want to point out that the general slogans are about more control or something from the administration that it's going to be called, that the Nacrada license is the only and sufficient document that gives the radio organization the right to speak, that's all nonsense, but it's someone's advantageous to take control of it, to create this organ, and if we can now ask even those members of the Nacrada who are delegated from different factions, then we're going to ask from some kind of amorphic formation that is the Communications and Radio Frequency Administration. Today, I say, really familiar, this is the National Television and Radio Council. And the same is true of part five and part four of the laws, to develop and agree with the Governing Body. I'm not talking about things that are outside of this law, let's say that if we adopt this law, now this national table on radio frequencies that we agree on is going to agree with the National Council, it goes beyond the National Council, and all of these frequencies that we want to see in civilians, they're hiding somewhere in the military and they're going to hide them, and maybe I'll even say, sell it simply. So our committee's proposal to reject this bill, and we're going to have new TV and radio bills, and we're already going to take all the proposals there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Anatoliyovich, give the name of the national deputies for the discussion. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u42	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Honorable National MPs. The consideration of this bill shows, once again, that the bills prepared by the Government of Kinah and automatically supported by the government of Yanukovic are absolutely not aimed at improving the lives of our citizens, nor are they aimed at transparency of our radio spectrum balance, I would like to say, to say, to say, whether it is a resource. You see, I'd like to say that we passed the Censorship Definition Act yesterday. I saw the Parliamentary Diary report last Tuesday. Not once, Mr. Head, not once, even by the laws where I was the authors, by the "darks" that are already in Parliament, have I ever been shown. I'm asking the most democratic speaker in Ukraine so far to correct this situation in order to correct censorship in the middle of the Supreme Council. I was talking to Ivan Sergiyovich of the venerable Chiz and saying, "Is this normal, Khreshtátík 26, radio, enters the national MP, four militiamen in armor meet. The national deputy, the sergeants are standing, go write your pass to get through. And this process of humiliation exists, and everything is paid by taxpayers, and then you say, we don't have enough money. Ivan Sergiyovich, they're standing by this day these four militiamen in the armored vests over there. ‘ There’s nothing more to do with militia? Take a look around Ukraine, there's nowhere to work, there's nothing for militias, and we're funding, God knows what's out of taxpayers. Now you've come up with another focus: the communications administration, not now, a little earlier. It was absolutely right here that such a law was not necessary. I agree with what Mr. Artemenko just said. Now there's a Cross-View, there's a Communication, we're still putting the Communications Authority in place, and we're handing over additional functions after they've already got the language license, they've been tilted into the National Council, they're going to be tilted by administrations, they're going to be further licensed. What are we doing? Are we improving our lives? And finally, I want to end with a positive. Today St. Sidor Day is a patron of the Internet. I welcome everyone who uses the Internet with this holy day, and I want to end this positive one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u43	Thank you. You see, dear fellows, as the saints get to life. Please, Andrew School. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u44	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Ukrainian National Assembly I would also like to caution against the short - term decisions of the national MPs. You see, what even our Chief Expert Office says about what can be accepted in the first reading is simply unacceptable here. There is no first or second reading here. The law is very small, very simple. A table of one sheet is made up. And that's why I think we need to look at the root of this. Is that what this is all about? When another fiscal body is formed in Ukraine, a state that cannot, in fact, boast its democracy, it is formed to suppress, suppress, suppress, make life difficult for the media, as a minimum, to make it difficult. Of course, you can always play with words and say that it does not make it difficult, but it regulates. For me, words make it difficult and regulates under today's circumstances are synonymous, and any control that's going to be carried out is going to be a ban on this control, first of all. As soon as they start talking about the Internet already mentioned here, as soon as I hear about how it needs to be organized, it means to me to ban the Internet as a democratic phenomenon. That is, anyone who wanted to express their opinion there could have done so. It's the same here. Look, we're going to create, whether we write it or not, we're going to write it through, and then we're going to look at another bill. And this is about assigning the administration of communications and radio frequencies to Ukraine for the purposes of television and speech, that is, creating another supervisory body. And of course, although he's taking over, he's still going to be an organ, and you're not going to get away, Mr. Chairman, the cars, the cars and the phones alone. This will come later, through a second coma. Because we have to control it, we have to deal with it. Next. Again and again about this license. You can't really agree with the proposal to appoint the National Council of Ukraine on TV issues, to radio the order of licensing for the use of language channels, because this order, according to the Ukrainian Radio Watch Act, is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This is Article 19 of the Law. Here I fully agree with the Chief Expert Office. Because we don't have the right to talk and talk in this situation, it's all done. Here we take, here we give, and we do it because of the repairs. I think it's more radical here to prepare new drafts, to develop and propose broadcasts, where it's clearly regulated, to clearly cut off all the power of the state to control the media by allowing or not allowing the state. must control the media. We keep in mind the withdrawal of our licenses. As soon as the first crumbs, such as publicity or democracy, appear somewhere on a channel or channel, a lawsuit for a license begins. There would be a violation of the same law. So once again, I say not to correct, not to correct, but to adopt new, quality laws that would not prohibit, but regulate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u45	Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u46	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Kyiv region Dear colleagues! I basically support those evaluations that have already been made before this bill, but I want to pay more attention to the following. We already have so many national councils, national commissions, but they're redistributing something, issuing licenses and so on and so forth. And it's like they're so independent that there's nowhere else to go. And everyone knows that under the national flag, and under the flag of independence, there are certain rings in all these commissions. So I cannot agree with what is proposed in this bill that the procedure for licensing the use of language channels, which according to the existing legislation are already determined by the Cabinet of Ministers itself, should be passed on to this National Council. Moreover, I would consider it appropriate for the Cabinet of Ministers to draft a bill on how to license natural resources. And what's on top, and what's growing, and what's on the same radio frequency resource, is that right here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this typical order has been approved by those who will be guided by specific documents based on it. And the next. The administration of Ukraine’s communications and radio frequency has already been mentioned. I would like to support the chairman’s suggestion that the bill must determine on whom these duties depend, on the State Liaison Office, or on the Ukrainian National Radio and Communications Supervisory Centre, or on another central institution? In addition, it is legally binding to state that this is not the basis for the creation of additional positions of office. In view of all that has been said, I think it is appropriate to return this bill to the first reading again. And finally, about St. Sidor and the Internet. Walked on the Internet and found such a wonderful message on one site. In the Albas region of western Basra, two units of British Royal Marine Special Forces captured five American officers and moved to the side of the Iraqi Republic Army. According to the Special Forces, five Americans were taken along as examples of low levels of development of U.S. military personnel. All the runners, as one, have expressed their readiness to join the Shahedes, with which I congratulate those who voted in favour of sending our radiochembatalion to Iraq. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, the time to consider a bill amending some Ukrainian laws in connection with the adoption of Ukraine's Radio Frequency Act is exhausted. Perhaps you have a closing word, Ivan Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u48	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. It's not a closing statement, it's just a response to the comments of the national MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I point out that it is not the Radio Frequency Act that is being considered, but simply the changes dictated by the law that was passed three years ago or two and a half years ago. Please take this into account when voting on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u49	A draft law amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences on the Responsibility of Drivers of Road Vehicles is being announced for consideration. Reporter, First Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Kornienko Mikhailo Vasilovich. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u50	Thank you. Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is proposed by the draft law on the introduction into the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, which aims to fully implement the mechanism of influence on the state of road traffic events and minimize their consequences. Individual MPs on the adoption of this law were accusing the IMF that it was as if we were pushing this law. I have to say we don't need this law, it needs the state, and I'll explain it a little bit further. Let's look at the history of this question. I would like to remind you that following the initiative of the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 1997-99, a number of amendments and additions to administrative legislation were made to the strengthening of the responsibility for violations of road traffic rules. As a result, during the period 1996–2000, despite an increase in the number of vehicles in the state, by almost 500,000 units, the level of emergency has declined. In 2000, nearly 10,000 fewer accidents were committed than in 1995. At the same time, the number of people they killed dropped by 2,000. 300 and traumatized by 10,000. 400 people. At the same time, following the adoption of Ukraine’s law of April 5, 2001, which amended administrative legislation in part of the non-alternative transfer of competence for decision-making on road safety violations to judicial authorities, as well as the reduced liability for violations of traffic rules after the seventeen posts of the Admincodex articles, the situation of transport discipline and traffic safety has deteriorated considerably. Between 2001 and 2001, the number of road accidents increased, leading to an increase in the number of civilians killed each year by almost 800 and the number of injured by nearly 2,000. This is the price of the changes that were adopted in 2001. The proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences apply primarily to the most socially dangerous types of violations. This is: the arbitrary use of special light and sound signal devices, this is article 121 of the Codex, the second is the management of transport vehicles without appropriate documents or persons who do not have the right to do so, and the violation of the rules on the transport of dangerous goods, the passage of large-scale and large-scale means of transport. [[Part One, Article 126]] This is article 133. [[its changes]] In order to reduce the cost, the time of citizens to consider administrative materials for infringements of road traffic regulations provides for a decision to be made on the part of the relevant officials of the internal affairs authorities. If the wrongdoer disagrees with their decision or wishes, he may appeal to the court. This will also help to increase the liability of offenders and reduce the workload of the courts, because according to statistics available for Ukraine of 3.2 million. The administrative protocols, which were drawn up in relation to road users and sent to court by State inspectors last year, have been examined by the courts only half of these protocols. At the same time, in line with administrative legislation, there is no technical capacity to ensure that fines are actually imposed, resulting in the government budget of Ukraine losing tens of times a year. The provision of the penalty and the payment of the fine is proposed by removing the driver’s licence to pay the offender a fine in the absence of a licence, as well as by leaving the vehicle in violation of the parking rules, which complicates the passage of special means of transport or the movement of pedestrians, and by retaining the carrier’s means of transport until payment of the fine. When emergency situations arise and safety is improved when dangerous goods are transported and they are transported to large and large vehicles, a means of transport that has been detected, which can cause damage or damage to roads and streets, transport facilities or create a danger to people’s lives, or other serious consequences are expected to be delayed and delivered to a special storage site outside the roadway to remedy violations. We can break these conclusions from the foregoing. First of all, it's time that, as a worldwide traffic safety officer, it's time to respond materially. Second, to make this responsibility timely is also a world practice. And the third, the fine imposed must be drawn up and directed to the budget. I've already said that the budget is ten times less profitable. And in the end, we're confident that the "unfertilized" drivers will become much less and the road situation will improve. By the way, the conclusion of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine that the bill corresponds to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Code of Administration and other laws of Ukraine. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a question to the reporter. Let's take five minutes to ask you a question. Please state on board the names of the national deputies. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u52	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please pass the word Shibku Vitalia Jakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u53	Vitaly Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u54	Vitaly Shibko, Ukrainian Socialist Party Mikhail Vasilovich, of course, we should trust your workers and fully trust the conclusions they have on the offender. But I have a question for you. If you face such a problem as you have to prove in court that it broke the rules. What you use, do you have any technical equipment, any cameras you can bring to trial, and say that this citizen is not only relying on a subjective view of any of your employees who actually violated the rules of the movement and should respond. That's the first question. And the second question. Please tell me what your opinion is on getting back to practice when those fines that are being paid went not only to the State Budget but also half to the local budgets. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u55	Thank you. With regard to the evidence we use to prove the offender’s guilt, this is primarily the testimony of the offender himself, the witness of the employee who detained him and the eyewitnesses who were there. Technical tools are also used. These are special tools, such as a barrier that determines the speed of movement, such as tape recorders, cameras, and other devices. Basically, but certainly not so often, I mean, apart from the barrier that determines speed, it's basically a witness to a police officer. By the way, in all parts of the world, the police also trust the testimony of the police, who determine the violation, is serious evidence.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u56	Andrew School, I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u57	As far as fines are concerned, these fines go to the budget and then are redistributed, going for different purposes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u58	About the money in the local budget to make amends from fines.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u59	These fines are sent to the State Budget. Our view is that we have already expressed this point, in principle fines should go to the budget, and their redistribution may already be different, i.e. half to the local budget, half to the state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u60	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u61	Dear reporter, well, of course something needs to be done here right now by legislation that regulates the relationship between a DAI driver and a DAI worker. But here I'd like you to clear this rostrum of caution. How fiscal, how comfortable is this law going to be for drivers in the first place, because, you know, I'm not a driver, it's easy for me to ask that question? That's the first one. And the second is about increasing responsibility. I mean, I also fully support it, but increasing responsibility, increasing fines in your opinion will solve the complex problems that have arisen on the road or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u62	Thank you. Of course, we think that this order will be more convenient for drivers, they will spend less time in court and less time in forming this wrongdoing. So this is going to be a normal thing for both sides. And second, with regard to increasing responsibility, in our opinion, increasing responsibility will not remove the whole problem, but it will contribute to reducing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u63	Rephat Chubarov, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u64	Thank you very much. Dear Mikhailo Vasilovich, under various conditions in many structures of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, there is a high turnover of personnel. This is how the militia responds to low wages, difficult working conditions. At the same time, as far as I'm concerned, there's some competition in the DAI department, which is what the DAI Service thinks is prestigious. Why? We, too, I think we're figuring it out. So I wanted to ask you. We now care about increasing the responsibility of drivers, we worry about giving in at the right time, and how do we make sure that this is not all ruined by the attitude of the DAI workers, that these costs come in, that they come in the form of payments, not in a different way. So what is the responsibility of the law to increase the role of the DAI workers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u65	Thank you. Rephat Abdurahmanovich, that's old data because there's no queue in the DAI now, there's no queue there, people don't go there like they used to, because it's very hard work. As far as responsibility is concerned, let me tell you that this responsibility is increasing. This year, during the clean hands operation, about 200 DAI employees were brought to disciplinary responsibility, and more than two dozen of them were released from their jobs, including several criminal cases, following our initiative to abuse official authority and exceed official authority. We will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u66	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Time's up, please sit down. The co-report, also as a reporter, will be addressed by the Secretary of the Committee on Legal Protection, Vladimir Ivanovich Mazurenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u67	Dear National Deputies! Two bills are proposed: one is a bill to the government now, 2072, and the other is a bill that was proposed to the committee, and I am the author of this bill, it's 2072-1. With regard to Bill 2072 proposed by the government. According to article 124 of the Constitution of Ukraine, justice in Ukraine is exercised exclusively by courts. That is why the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences was passed on April 5, 2001, which was handed over to the courts. Under the law, the removal of DAI drivers from the driver’s seat, driver’s license, gift card, and license plates were prohibited. Therefore, the committee finds it wrong to propose the subject of a legislative initiative to have police personnel removed from the drivers of the above documents. These documents are the property of the person, they are not prohibited by the law of free circulation, they are not material evidence of the case. Thus, according to article 41 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the driver’s license and the driver’s gift cannot be deleted. In this regard, the proposal to complete article 265 with a new part cannot be supported; the changes to articles 221 and 222 cannot be accepted. Police officers can only make protocols, and only courts can impose entanglements and use personal property on citizens. Instead of going back to the old legislation, try to work out a mechanism by which the courts would work uninterruptedly, deal with cases in a timely manner, and impose sequestrations. The committee therefore proposes that the bill be rejected. As far as Bill 2072-1 is concerned. Ukraine's draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences was designed to strengthen administrative responsibility for traffic violations. For example, physical and punitive sanctions are included in the articles. Article 122 "Exceeding speed of traffic by drivers, failure to implement traffic control signals and other traffic rules." Article 122.2: Failure by drivers to meet the requirements of stopping, staying in a city of traffic. Article 124 "Vehicle violation by drivers causing damage to vehicles, cargo, roads, road installations or other property." Article 126 “Controlling vehicles by persons who do not have the right to drive or who do not have the right to drive or who do not have the right to check the relevant documents.” Article 127: Breaking traffic rules by pedestrians, cyclists and drivers, by other persons. "Extended fines for driving drunk." This is article 130. I think this is a terrible crime, and no matter what form of drunkenness the driver was in — light, medium, or heavy — especially if people were affected by such a driver. Some sanctions may appear in individual articles to be exceeded, but in the process of redrafting the bill on second reading, this can be considered. There's also an offer not to make this fork, which is 20 and 30 non-taxable minimums there, but to record a single violation and a single penalty, so that whoever violates it understands what he's going for when he goes for a traffic violation. There is also responsibility for violating the traffic regulations of large vehicles by road and by street. For the installation and use of special sound or world signals on transport devices without permission. Article 122 proposes that the speed is set to be more than 50 miles [20 - 50 km] per hour and more than 50 miles per hour. There will be various punishments for this. The responsibility for giving motorists the advantage of walking at unregulated pedestrian crossings has been increased. This bill is proposed by the committee as a basis, as a basis for further elaboration and second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u68	Is there a question? Please sign in. Lighten up. Mikola Onichuk, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u69	Thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor, you have now made a proposal from the committee to support the MP's bill, referring largely to the fact that the current legal order for imposing administrative charges is only faithful. Please tell me, have you analyzed the number of cases that were brought before the courts today in connection with administrative violations of traffic regulations? During what term are they considered? And didn't this essentially create a tow, a rather significant tow in the court order of these applications?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u70	Yes, we have considered this issue in the Committee. Few proposals for second reading have been made, not only to give the right to draft protocols, but the Committee remains its own. In any event, only the court can decide the issues at issue. But we give the right to an alternative. If the violating rule agrees, he may simply take the minutes and know that he has been appointed to do so, he may go to the sberksa or to the bank and transfer the money himself. That is, in any case, we assume that a GAI officer is not entitled to deal with money. He can only deal with the protocol. If I don't agree with the protocol they made for me, then I'm going to court, and if I agree with that protocol, I'll go and pay my own fine. But I know how much I have to pay for it. No, it's not like that. I want you to understand. Practice next. For a month I have the right to pay that fine if I did not pay it, so other sanctions are included. So I'm being tried twice as much. But we need to understand that a violation that has occurred cannot go unpunished.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u71	Mikola Polishchuk, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u72	Dear reporter, I would like to say that the bill presented is, in my opinion, extremely necessary. First of all, in Ukraine, 8 to 10,000 people die every year in road traffic accidents, of which 3,000 are children, most of them are killed because they're too fast, because they're in violation of traffic rules. And I have a question. To date, we know that courts are often turned to the courts and handed down to the courts, usually the court is on the side of a wrongdoer who has often not only broken the rules but has mutilated or killed the child. Since 1970, I've been traumatizing, neurotrabic, and the trauma itself is traffic accidents. And in my opinion, I'm also a motorist, and today we need even more severe sanctions. Worldwide, this is considered to be the greatest damage because you are putting yourself and a person in harm’s way. That's my question. Better yet, to give the DAI’s employees rights to take hard measures. And a citizen, if he does not agree, should be tried by DAI’s coworker and then accepted as an official.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u73	I agree with all the arguments you've had. No GAI staff member shall be deprived of the right to punish, i.e. to draw up a protocol, to record the violation that has occurred, and no one shall take it away from them. I fully agree with you that we must give such sanctions so that whoever wants to violate it no longer wants to violate it. I have never witnessed our fellow citizens living abroad very clearly in compliance with those laws that were abroad, that is, 90 kilometers away, and no one is greater than that. Why? That's because there's a hundred dollars fine! I mean, we're not saying that today, if we impose penalties now, we'll be making fun of those poor people who have no money to pay the fines. We're saying don't break it! And no one will punish you! Because the fact that we have an article for murder in the Criminal Code and the Criminal Code doesn't mean that all murderers. Don't break it. Let us tighten our sanctions. Otherwise, we won't make it on the road.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u74	Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u75	Kravchenko is President of the All-Ukrainian Union for the Protection of Drivers'Rights. Please answer a question such as the drafter of the bill. You are now giving examples of the West as well built. Tell me, please, where have you seen abroad or what traffic rules have you seen the police sitting in bushes? Second. What kind of technical means is the evidentiary basis for what speed is exceeded? Third. Does the state of the road meet the level of requirements that we are making today? And the last. In your bill, there is a proposal to give police officers the right to remove their rights. Please tell me, is this a legal norm or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u76	Well, let's start with the last one. The point is that I am categorically opposed to the removal of rights, license plates or this is exactly the alternative to the bill that the government has given. I'm definitely against it. About everything else. Thus, for the second reading, changes are being prepared to my own bill, in which an article that permits or does not permit to stop vehicles will clearly state that a road inspection officer or a road service officer has the right to stop the driver only in one case, in the event of a traffic violation. No paperwork checks, no cargoes, no signs, no numbers. This is not supposed to happen. Man eats, does not violate, no one has the right to stop, and this is a condition that will be written and changed to second reading. With regard to the inspection “in the bush”, I agree with you that no one has the right to do so and there has been an appropriate order prohibiting hidden surveillance. [[What was it called, I don't remember.]] The quality of the roads, I'm sorry, it's up to us first. As we can fill the budget, the local budget will first and foremost be repaired by roads. I'm here to make sure we have quality roads. I'm here to make sure we're okay on the roads.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u77	Thank you, please take your time, Vladimir Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Please give me a list of the National Deputies that have been registered. Let's make a deal, 15 minutes. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u78	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, at last we can discuss the problem that has been lobbying for a long time because there are media in this case those State Inspectorates. I'd like to say. We were told today how many people are dying, about 10,000 people. What, they didn't die before? They died. What, that's not a problem? Problem. What, we didn't put it on? Put it down. What, we didn't see a reason? They saw the reason. And the reasons are bad roads. The reasons for last year are the temperature regime, you remember what the heat was. And the reason why we don't have cars like this anywhere in the world is no longer in use. And we're putting everything in and out of our Giguli market with no basic airbags. And that's not what you're talking about, officer of the police. And these are the causes of trauma. And unless there's a reason that you're seeing what the driver's nervousness is today. 15, I want to say today, 15 tours are provided in Kiev, 15 traffic overlaps, starting with the President, the Head of the Supreme Council, the head of the Cabinet, the First Vice-Prime Minister, the Head of the Administration, the First Deputy, even the Chief of Staff, 15 officials, ending with the mayor of Kiev, are blocking the passage, that's normal, that's the equality of citizens before the law. Ladies and gentlemen! People's nervousness is impossible when people stand in the middle of a test and wait 10 minutes for Mr. President to pass with his honour, and before that, three times before that, they'll be safe. [[eight cars]] These are all causes of emergency. And you want all these reasons to shut up by assigning court authority. The position of the project reported by the government, the removal of a driver’s license and the seizure of a vehicle, is contrary to article 41 of the Constitution, according to which the compulsory alienation of private property objects can be solely on grounds of social necessity, provided that they have been fully compensated. No one can be wrongly deprived of his property. Next. According to the Constitution, justice is exercised exclusively by courts. It is not possible to delegate the function of the courts and to assign these functions to other authorities or officials. For those who do not remember this, see article 124 of the Constitution. I absolutely agree with that speaking Masurenko who was introducing an alternative project that he said should not deal with police money, they should only deal with protocols, this time. And in that bill that we're currently preparing with the National MP Kravchenko, we're going to see changes to the Road Traffic Act, to the Police Act, where we're going to have to observe the quality of the roads, where we're going to ban these passages and crossings that are now happening in Kiev, and the circle that leads to the nervousness of people and everything. And the way to do that is to increase technical security. The solution is to raise discipline and increase responsibility, including administrative responsibility and the conclusion that each punishment is adequate, giving birth is an adequate punishment, that is, the irreparability of punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u79	Thank you. I just want to say that I live next door and walk, so let's get the exact information, not cover the streets. Have a seat, please. Turn off the microphone. I'm telling you again, you have a little bit of it. I say again, have a little measure. Sit down, please. Turn off the microphone. We'll shoot tomorrow, we'll shoot tomorrow. Stop being a revolutionary. Be more human. Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u80	Andrew School, Yulia Timoshenko’s faction, Ukrainian National Assembly Dear colleagues, the esteemed first radio listeners, because no matter how many drivers are in the Supreme Council Hall, most drivers and pedestrians are still exposed to this process. So I want to emphasize objectively. The bill proposed by the government was, firstly, rejected by the Committee on Law Enforcement, which I am a member of, the head of the subcommittee. And that's why I don't even want to talk. This bill is fiscal, forbidden, which once again wants to regain the right to record licenses, delete the driver’s property, or driver’s license, and so forth. I don't even want to discuss this, I just want to highlight the bill that the committee supported, 2072-1 Mazurenka. You see, really, the situation is that we need to reconsider our approach to the intruder on the road. It's not about that, no one's going to stop him from breaking. It's everyone's right. If examples were given in other lands, I would set the very right example for us as if there were bigger circumstances. But in Belgium, a Belgian police officer has no right to stop a driver, only if his movement can cause the victims, and that is in other ways, the police are already doing it, not the road. What's the police doing? She's fixing the car number, she's putting it in a special form, she's e-mailing it, she's mailing it to the driver, and he's going on his own, and he's paying the fine. So the word "policeman" doesn't hold back, they make a protocol, they send out, they pay off, and that's the end of it. And actually, I think here as much as you'd like to reform this sector, of course, we have a problem. And what the DAI employee is now taking away from direct funding is a positive, that's a positive, and that was a decisively productive step that we've taken. And now, when it comes to the loading of the courts, which has been mentioned here on several occasions, the usual thing is that the proposal in this bill is brought to your attention to do so: if the driver agrees with what he has violated, well, let's bow down to the fact that they can't make him agree with what he's violating if he thinks he didn't commit the infringement, he stands up for his right through the court. In case there's an agreement, everything was paid for properly. But the other one. What can you do in such a place? In the middle of the abandoned car, his owner just, you said, went out there to buy himself some stuff. Two hours or half an hour stops the traffic, and it's not the President, it's no official person, it's just a cool woman going to buy carrots for breakfast or lunch. Do you understand? So how do you do that with a fine? Well, there's no other way out. And I'm opposed to using a driver's license to improve the condition of roads or the lives of law enforcement personnel. This must be punishment. And punishment must be adequate to wrongdoing. If the offense is small, a small punishment, if it is large, is accordingly great. And accordingly, the courts will know what they're working for. If the fine is not 17 dollars, but at least a thousand 700, everything will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u81	Finish up, please. Mikhailo Antonovich Pavlovski, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Is there a Mikhailo Antonovich? Please. Prepare Kravchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u82	Thank you. Pavlovski, the faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland, Hmeljničina. Dear Chairman Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, members of the government, voters! I want to draw attention to the fact that something really needs to be changed in this system. Of these bills, our colleague Mazurenko made such fine proposals, but there is one detail. In his bill, all fines increase about a few times. And considering that we today have nine out of ten million motorists, nine will not be able to pay such high fines. So, on the other hand, we really did, we did it again, extremely, because of the courts to decide everything, so I had this experience. Here, near the Supreme Council, I'm going at 40 kilometers, and I'm getting a hard one on my tail, as they say, and it's blinking, and it's signaling, well, where do you think I'm going any faster? Then he comes forward, creates a two-time emergency that my sweat is cold on my head. I say DAI, "Through trial." And he shows the court that his car was in repair at the time. You can imagine this situation. That's the way it is with the people's deputy. You can imagine. That's why I'm offering it. And yet, from one extreme to the other, you need the middle. Since the proposal from the Ministry of Internal Affairs only increases fines in some positions, it is necessary to adopt such a standard: to take their bill as a basis; the only condition is not to increase fines; the only thing to do is to go where the speed exceeds 130 km, and that's where there should be strict norms. And we have to report another type of violation. It's when you go to the left row by the rules, you're pushed, you're intruding. You have to put this in -- the incentive to break the rules. Because it will move you to a higher speed or to a line where there is nowhere to go. That's why you have to put in an extra rule. Now he's going to have to take on the proposal that we have to make a protocol, that's his idea, and yet we have to take the basis from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to reject any increase in fines. [[I'm telling you again.]] The only thing we can do is leave it at a speed of more than 30 kilometers and enter an extra article and then we can go back to that law and really find this kind of "gold" in the middle. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u83	The word is given by Mikoli Vasilovich Kravchenko. Next Oneschuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u84	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. President of the All-Ukrainian Union for the Protection of Drivers'Rights. The two bills that have been tabled today aim to destroy the legislative framework that was developed and adopted with us on 5 April 2001. It was these legislative acts that made it possible. They banned the GAI from changing, forcing cars to be taken at the train station, license plates, and rights. And this, three moments have become the basis for the activities of the GAI. This is the fourth attempt to regain these rights. Fragments are a separate kind of business. Exclusion of the rights of the street. The rules on the right to drive cars are a separate business. And I would today, if I were to be honest with you, in a very different way, I have redesigned my statement in connection with Mikhail Vasilevich's statement. The logic of Mikhail Vasilevich Korniewka's statement is that the following is the case. When the Minister's order increased responsibility in 1999, the accident was reduced. As soon as the Supreme Council reduced its demands in 2001, so did the increase. Excuse me, please, Mikhail Vasilevich, I will never agree. If we are going to Europe, we must live by European standards. But with our roads to Europe, it's still a long way off. So let's "straw" the legs on the clothes. What is happening today and why the Ministry of Internal Affairs today sees the problem of traffic security only in one way, to strengthen the driver's responsibility. Where is the State's responsibility for providing normal driving conditions? Where is the responsibility of the GAI and the Ministry as a whole for the state of the road? No one, in a single bill, said that why, for two five years, would come back, these four years since 1998, not a penny would be spent on road maintenance. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I would like to invite you, first of all, not to support either or the other bill. The Scientific and Expert Office rejected the Cabinet of Ministers and called for the adoption of Mazurenko as a basis. But there are moments that you can't agree with. What we will do at the level of our public organization of the All-Ukrainian Union for the Protection of Driver's Rights. First. It is imperative that I be at the Prime Minister's reception, and I will nevertheless find out who lobbyed this corrupt bill. It's corrupt in its essence and content. This is where the Ministry of the Interior hangs its ears. Second. I will meet as a matter of urgency next week for the heads of regional organizations and we will in any case find ways to influence the deputies and impose political responsibility for lobbying, for lobbying today for the interests of the GAI. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u85	Mikola Oneschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u86	It's a faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs and "Urrigible Ukraine." Dear colleagues, the question that is being considered today is not only domestic, not just political, but primarily legal. I'm literally a few words of the most important subject that needs to be understood. After we reformed the court, and the renaissance of the role of judges began, we brought everything to trial. And if a few years ago, there was a total of 2 million in Ukraine. In court cases, it's $4.5 million today. I'm sorry. Moreover, courts have not only been brought into court in cases where this is actually provided for by law, when we are arrested, when property is removed, but also when it comes to administrative misconduct. But in fact, highly organized societies work in the following way. There are administrative bodies, there is order, there is a legislative order for their activities, there is an order for these bodies to impose administrative fines for administrative misconduct, and so society is organized. A citizen or a legal person, if he contests the decision of an administrative body operating within the legislative field, is going to court. And then, when the Supreme Council decided that any administrative engagement for traffic rules must go to trial, it was just, you know, to some extent such romanticism. And I understand that it may have been to some extent a while, but today we have to give it up. We need to raise the importance of administrative bodies, but the other thing is that our demands on their activities, on the legislative arrangement, on the mechanisms of seizing should be higher so that they do not allow abuse, corruption and all that. So I'd like to support one trait, by the way, both one bill and another, that it's not a court function to impose administrative charges. Only if this action of the administrative authority is challenged, yes, the citizen goes to court, defends the violation of the law, and defends his interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, consideration of the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the Responsibility of Drivers of Vehicles has been completed. The decision will be made on the day of the vote, taking into account the discussion that took place today. A draft law on social adaptation of persons who have been punished in the form of a restriction of will or a deprivation of liberty for a certain period of time is under consideration. The reporter is the first Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine, Mikhailo Vasilovich Kornienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u88	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Ukraine's draft Act on Social Adaptation of Persons Who Were Sentenced as a Limitation of Will, or Deprivation of Will for a Certain Period, is multifaceted, it's been developed for several years, it's finally passed through the Committees and it's going to the Supreme Council. The bill proposes to regulate mechanisms for social adaptation of persons who have been penalized in the form of restrictions on their will or deprivation of liberty, material and technical security and the financing of social adjustment centres and social welfare institutions, the participation of citizens, businesses, institutions and individual citizens in the provision of social assistance to persons who have been released. The adoption of the draft law will allow the provision of social assistance to persons who have been penalized in the form of a restriction of their will or a suspension of their liberty for a certain period of time to be established at the legislative level of social adjustment centres for those who have been released from places of deprivation and who will contribute to enhancing social security in society. The introduction of the Ukrainian Act on the Social Adaptation of Persons Who Were Punished in the form of a Limitation of Will or Deprivation for a Certain Period does not require any additional expenditure from the State Budget of Ukraine. Please support him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u89	Have a seat, please. Please, Andrew School, as co-reporter, Head of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Enforcement, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, I will no longer speak here of the long-suffering nature of this bill, for it has been said. But first of all, I would like to say that the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Enforcement suggests that the bill be approved and submitted to the Supreme Council in its first reading. The Ukrainian Act "On Administrative Supervision of Persons Released from Places of Will" was adopted by the Supreme Council in 1994. It sets out the conditions and arrangements for the establishment and administration of separate categories of persons who have previously been convicted and their duties. The project sets out the conditions and arrangements for providing social assistance to persons who have been punished in the form of restriction or deprivation of liberty for a certain period, as well as their role in the social adaptation of executive organs and local governments, businesses, institutions, organizations of civil society. It is predicted that the bill should be distributed to citizens of Ukraine, foreigners, stateless persons who have applied to special authorized authorities after the discharge of their sentences. The text of the bill provides for the order of institutions and organizations, and it is inexhaustible enough to have the right to carry out the social care of persons and so forth. And all of this is done, and I want to emphasize to the local authorities. You see, there are a lot of points in this bill that need to be worked out in the next reading, because we can't hang everything on the local authorities, that is, the state doesn't finance it, the budget doesn't bother, and it requires them to adapt socially to those who have been punished, so this adaptation is going to be formal. And before that, there is, of course, a positive society in this bill that extends the hand of help to those who have been punished at places of deprivation. At the legislative level, implemented positions were defined as priorities in the Presidential Decree on the further strengthening of the rule of law and the protection of the rights of citizens. But still, the money problem remains here, we have to figure out, we talked about it on the committee, and Mr. Kornierko remembers that on this point, I was speaking out and saying that it's not possible to make money that doesn't have to decide the fate of the people who got laid off. So this needs to be worked out. But there are some other nuances. Here, for example, article 9 of the bill states that some forms of social assistance will also be given to persons who are still serving sentences, thus there is a contradiction to whom the bill will be distributed. And article 8 of the revised Labour Code does not need any other explanation. In 8 articles, it's more or less said. And in general, I want to say that this whole problem, again, is going to be funding. So it looks like this, it's a good movement and it can't, I don't know, someone here might deny it, it's a necessary movement and I've already talked about stretching the hand of help, but this hand of help has to be strong and financially justified, not by words and letters in this bill, but by real costs. And the local budgets, unfortunately too much, are not yet in place. But once again, the committee's point is to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u91	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine, please. Is there a Carmazin? None. Let's take it. Montenegrin Leonid Mikhailovich. Is there a Chernewsky? Please. Get ready, Shulsey.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u92	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I wish to say that the law and initiative of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, supported by the Ministry of the Interior, is a noble initiative, but the law itself is very serious. I want to tell you some very interesting things in the presence of the Deputy Minister, because I'm seeing a lot more of myself, even more than any cop, with people leaving places of deprivation of liberty. And I'm reporting two bills today, and I didn't rush to take one of the applications in my name, a man who just stepped out of a detention facility who went to the hospital to get help, and his leg gangrene started. The doctor at 3rd City Hospital cut off his leg without a drug. Cut off his leg, two legs, come back, excuse me, two feet, then cut off his finger, put his finger on his chest, and said, "Give it all to the rest of the marshmallows so they don't turn to our hospital next time, because I took them off with requests, but that's a bad word, and I demand criminal proceedings against a number of doctors." Unfortunately, these criminal cases, including the police, will help me, I know Mr. Kornienko, he's a decent man and a moral one, let him help me start a criminal case. The problem is scary, people get out of places of deprivation, nobody needs them at all, nobody thinks they're there, and not enough, I can't get through law enforcement, so we can start discussing these things in public. They're people like us. And the convicts are still in totalitarian time, whether the crime was known or not. That's another question. But I'm telling you all about real things. The International Convention provides that even a rat cannot be operated without a drug. And there is a criminal responsibility to which we have acceded, an international convention that cannot be done. I'm going to refer this statement to the Supreme Council, and I'm going to ask you for your support, so that at least one villain, you can imagine what it's like to cut off your legs without a drug. On the other hand, please insist that the law be adopted and worked out because there are no mechanisms to protect these ordinary citizens, whom we are obliged to protect as members of the Supreme Council, to date. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u93	Mikola Shulga, Communist faction. Prepare Crucius.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u94	Schulga, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! There is no doubt about the need to adopt such a law. This category of people is specific, and the question of adapting them to society is always difficult to pass in any society and it becomes a particular problem in society for the poor. However, the document presented needs serious work. First. The bill does not cover all forms of assistance to persons who have been punished in the form of a restriction of will or a deprivation of liberty for a certain period of time. In particular, nothing has been said about helping the public authorities in this category of persons in employment and vocational retraining. It speaks of vocational training, but only in places of deprivation. But not everyone will be able to do the kind of specialty that they get there, in the new conditions it might just not be appropriate and they'll have to retrain, and this is one of the more painful issues -- employment for this category of people, and if it's not resolved, the prospects for a positive adaptation of such a person in society are very questionable. The second. The wording in the bill has a vague, vague form. Yes, article 2 states that social patronage is applied to citizens who have applied to the observation committee. What do you mean, "applied"? This should be understood as the right of a person or the will of that body that may or may not provide such a service. Thirdly, article 10 of the law is called "Guarantees for the Realisation of the Rights of the Freed Persons." However, it is the rights of these individuals in the bill that are not written down. Moreover, rights are not mentioned in any article at all, only in the end are their articles mentioned. I understand that some can be interpreted from those positions, those norms that are written there as rights, but I think that here, given our situation, you better write "Right" clearly and let it be written and understood to everyone who is entitled to these people. Fourthly, separate articles are simply unnecessary because they do not guarantee any specific rights regarding the relevant categories of persons. For example, article 5. It says that these people have the right to medical attention, and that's what they're talking about. Well, we all have the right to medical attention. There's some way to specify what it's about, how we can help these people. Let's go. Let's go, There are contradictions in my articles of the bill. Article 2 says that social patronage measures are applied within 6 months of their release, and Article 4 states, for example, that housing and housing conditions are created, and mentions that these persons may be given a place in the hostel for a period up to the improvement of their living conditions. But these conditions may not be improved for several years, so what if they need to be expelled six months later? This too needs to be reconciled. And the last thing we've talked about here. I don't think it says here that this law doesn't need funding. He needs it, he needs it, he needs it, he needs it, he needs it, he needs it, he needs it, he needs it, he needs it, he needs it, he needs it, he needs it, he needs it, he needs it, he needs it, he needs it, he needs it, he needs it, he needs it, he needs it, he needs it, he needs it, he needs Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u95	Yes. Please, National Deputy Krutz, "Our Ukraine" faction. Please, Mikolo Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u96	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies, distinguished voters, distinguished radio listeners! Social adaptation involves adapting to certain social conditions. When it comes to social adaptation of persons who have been punished in the form of restrictions of will or willlessness, it is meant to adapt them to conditions that exist outside where they have been punished, figuratively in their free will. Such adaptation in today’s conditions is special. Because today there are special conditions both in places of deprivation and in society. Today we have a rather paradoxical situation. In order to secure society, the state has been forced by the court’s decision to take away the will of those who have committed crimes. At the same time, there are no conditions for convicts to be deprived of their will in accordance with international standards. The living conditions of our citizens in society are also far from civilized. In such a situation, individuals who have been punished are in a very difficult situation, both in the course of punishment and after their release. The issue of social adaptation is now relevant to tens of thousands of people. And they're released every year for about 50 or 70,000, and for those 200,000 convicts who are there, for their relatives and loved ones. They are relevant to all of our society. The basic objectives of social adaptation for individuals who have spent some time in a state of deprivation or restraint are understandable. First. To include such persons in the system of social and legal relations. The other one. To prevent them from committing new crimes. What is needed to achieve these goals? Contributing to those who are freed from employment places. Make the right housing conditions. Create conditions for their professional orientation, etc. Will it allow the proposed bill to be solved? Judging by the analysis, its content is certainly not. This law should provide for its features of the registration of released persons, the creation of shelters, dormitories for the temporary residence of some of these persons. Clearly defined powers should also be from central, local authorities regarding the socio-economic, professional, psychological, medical, legal rehabilitation of such persons. The position of many of his articles is declarant. In fact, the project only notes the problem, but only to some extent defines the conceptual principles of the State's social adaptation of people released from places of deprivation and restrictions of will. All of us are well aware that, to date, the financial possibilities that the State can use to solve this problem are extremely limited. And the law cannot change a significant situation in this regard. The law, above all, should provide for a mechanism for social adaptation of persons released from places of deprivation. But, with a clear, effective approach to reality, today the mechanism does not contain a project. According to the project, a person who is freed from places of deprivation or restriction of liberty receives little in order to engage in the life - style of society. I would even say that by adopting the proposed bill, we will introduce both these individuals and society. For the adoption of the law is a legislative solution to the problem. And the adoption of such a law does not solve the problem of the social grant of the persons involved. Therefore, in my view, Parliament cannot approve of this project. It should be returned to the Cabinet of Ministers for processing. Work should take into account the experience in this field of other countries: Sweden, Germany, and those that are close to ours. Like, in Poland, Russia and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u97	Basil Nadrag. None. Ivan Mihovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u98	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. The need for adoption of the 3001 bill under consideration is certain. By supporting it, I propose such changes and additions. First. Add the term "social work" to Article 1. The experience of Western countries shows that it was introduced more than a hundred years ago in connection with a major outbreak of crime in the course of wild capitalism and proved its effectiveness. Today it's an independent field of science, the direction of education, and the kind of professional activity. The social work structure, which should primarily contribute to the social adaptation of individual categories of complex, has isolated social rehabilitation with its forms and methods. It contributes to the adaptation of those who have been punished or sentenced on a conditional basis. It is well - known that willlessness has a strong bearing on consciousness, psychology, and the behavior of people. Specially trained professionals with both legal and sociological, pedagogical, medical training, appropriate will, and moral qualities are required to work with such individuals. They also have certain powers, they are under public control and so on. This training system works, as mentioned here, in the West and is being formed today in Ukraine, and including many of our country’s institutions are already starting to train social rehabilitation specialists. And they need to be bet on resocializing the convicted or dismissed, which unfortunately is not in the bill today. The term "social care" is needed, but its content should not be overestimated, because it is just one of the means of social work. In article 3, it is appropriate to emphasize that people with special training, not lovers, but physicists, should be involved directly in the social rehabilitation of exemplary organs and institutions. And these people have to be trained in licensed third-, fourth-, third-, fourth-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, and third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, and third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, There is also a need to complement the names in article 6 with the institutions that carry out the social rehabilitation of adults, since it focuses only on young people. Finally, as mentioned in article 8, it is appropriate to anticipate not only local budgets but also in the State for financing, in part, this specific, extremely complex sphere of social life. I believe that the findings of the scientific expert office also include such comments and should be taken into account in the drafting of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the draft law on social adaptation of persons who have been punished in the form of restrictions of will or deprivation of liberty for a certain period of time. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Administrative Supervision of Persons Released from Places of Will on Particularly Serious Crimes is being announced for consideration. Reporter: First Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Kornienko Mikhailo Vasilovich. Prepare the school as a co-reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u100	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Ukraine's draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Administering Persons Released from Places of Will has been developed to implement the final and transitional provisions of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to bring Ukraine into conformity with the Criminal Code the individual provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Administrative Supervision of Persons Released from Places of Will. In view of the fact that the new Criminal Code of Ukraine does not provide for a category of formerly convicted, particularly dangerous recidivists, and article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Supervision of Persons Released from Places of Will, paragraph (a), this category is excluded. In addition, the Criminal Code of Ukraine introduces the concept of "particularly serious crime" into the classification of "Crime Classification". In this regard, it is proposed that the law be supplemented by a category of persons sentenced to be deprived of their liberty for particularly serious crimes in respect of which administrative supervision may be established. At the same time, at the suggestion of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine in article 5 of the law, the words "district City Court" are replaced by the words "district, district, city and local courts." The proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Administrative Supervision of Persons Released from Willing Places will have a positive impact on the prevention of recidivism, contribute to the improvement of the operational and service activities of internal affairs agencies, which will be a further step towards strengthening the legal basis and ensuring public security in the state. The adoption of the project does not require additional financial costs from the State budget. This law is very simple, and it is thought that it does not need to be discussed. Please support him, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u101	Thank you. Sit down, Mikhail Vasilovich. Please, Andrew Vasilovich School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u102	Andrew School, Faction of the Julia Timoshenko Block, from the Committee on Law Enforcement. First of all, I would like to point out that we should look at the issue of administrative supervision at all, but that should touch another. I would like to point out that this bill has been supported and decided to approve the bill and bring it to the first reading of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I don't think you need a few readings of this bill, it's short, it's small and it's about changing terms. You realize that the Criminal Code has changed, the terms have changed, and you propose that administrative supervision be lifted for persons recognized by courts as particularly dangerous recidivists, and that the project introduces administrative supervision for persons convicted of particularly serious crimes. In principle, it's just a change in terms. And to secure administrative oversight, it is established by the following courts: district, district, city, land. Regarding the positiveness of the bill, it should be noted that the adoption of the bill would allow the law to be harmonized with the criminal code of Ukraine. It's a formal side of the case and you can put, in principle, a dot in the discussion. But I'd like to say beyond this rule, from my point of view, that in general, it's a redundancy of Soviet law, and here we have to do something different, we have to co-opt it into social adaptation, that is, at the time of social adaptation to implement administrative implementation. Because especially serious relapses or convicted of particularly serious crimes do not require social adjustment. We apocryphals now admit that these are criminals who have been sitting there for 15 years thinking about committing a crime. So here we have to, I think in the future, it's just to give up the notion of an admiration and move it to social adaptation. It will be both humane and magnified by the work of the body itself. Because once again, I'm saying, well, look, here's the thing about admin. He is a man who has been released under the watchful eye of a law - enforcement body. But it is only a watchful eye, as it were. But if this watchful eye were to drive it to social and useful work, to adapt it to society, it would take a double load, it would predict its action would follow, yes. On the other hand, it would enable him to adapt to society if he wanted to. Thank you. So I want to stress once again that the committee has decided to support the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u103	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Carmazin. Well, if you'll excuse me, Andrew will be right with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u104	Yuri Karmazin Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, the question raised is not purely formal. First of all, we need to get there. The Law on Administration was adopted on December 1, 1994, and the Criminal Code, which we adopted in April 2001, does not provide for the establishment of administrative reviewers who are recognized by the courts as particularly dangerous recidivists. That is no longer the concept. So this concept needs to be removed from the code. And the correct question is: It is envisaged that there will be administrative oversight of those condemned to be deprived of their will for particularly serious crimes. And I want to say to those who don't understand the importance of this process today. It is simply that it is not possible to translate into social adaptation and to link social adaptation because we today have abolished the machine of penance. This means that today persons who are seriously dangerous, and after we have separated the department from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, there is a serious problem within the boundaries of these organs to prevent new crimes, new crimes that are being committed today. We haven't considered with you why so many of these crimes are, and the reoccurring of the crime is why. It is precisely because there is no normal civilized administrative supervision, and it is still there and still has to be, until it dies out in time, as soon as it dies and the number of healthy crimes that occur. I remind you that there are about 220,000 people in places where we have their will permanently from year to year, despite the amnesty that we accept and so forth. But I absolutely agree with the suggestions that have now been made by the committee about what there is nothing to do in the two readings of this law, it's perfectly normal and you can accept it right away in the first and second readings as a whole. There's no other way. And what we now determine by what courts administrative supervision is set up, and more precisely, this is the right thing to do. So this is probably a rare case where I agree with what the government is proposing, and in this case I agree with what the committee is proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u105	Dear National Deputies! We conclude our consideration of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Supervision of Persons Released from Places of Disqualification for Particularly Serious Crimes. The decision will be made in the day to vote. A draft law amending the Law on Pension Insurance for Civil Servants and Persons of the Primary and Private Composition of Internal Affairs and Some Other Persons on Pensions by Banking Institutions is being announced for consideration. Please, Leonid Mikhailovich Černovicki as a reporter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u106	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Above all, they are respected radio listeners, former internal affairs officials, pensioners and military personnel. There's one very interesting topic that concerns you, is that today all pensioners can use any bank, here, and all their deposits. Not contributions, but all pensions are already fully guaranteed by the State's deposit guarantee fund, but for some reason the law remains very strange in 1994, in contravention of the Banks and Banking Act, where only the Saving Bank of Ukraine has been left behind as slaves to retirees, military and internal affairs. That's wrong, that's not good enough. and uncomfortable for these retirees, because to date all other pensioners can be served in any other bank. There is competition among banks in the fight for pensioners, there are additional benefits for them, discount programmes, more interest in the contributions of these banks, better service those retirees, in some cases. I'm not saying that Sberbank is bad. But it's only remnants as if it were totalitarian ideology in the law that accompanied us back in 2003. It's anachronism, it's when other banks simply didn't exist. The fact that the committee didn't support my bill, well, that's natural, because the communists have an opinion that they should all be in one bank, that's it, and only in the state. And it's as if it's an emotional decision and if we don't even accept this law, the Constitutional Court will decide it in favour of my bill. In fact, there is no other reason to release the situation to constitutional freedom. We're not all slaves, we're not slaves. These communists should also know and therefore vote. Because Mr. Krutchev's committee has taken and rejected my bill, which is not clear why. Nope. I want the communists to finally become Democrats. And the other ones I have no reason to talk to, to become, I love Communists, I don't have any problems with them. There's a consistent line that we have to go back again. Yeah. That's what it was. There's nothing more. And the rest is a sequence line. And it is right to protect the rights of citizens, especially workers living on wages, but not on anti-constitutional methods. Therefore, I appeal to Mr. Krutchev today to renounce the decision that the Communists have taken on his committee, and calmly, as Lenin taught, to vote, to support my bill. Because he just doesn't have an alternative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u107	Have a seat, please. Replica, please, Georgi Korniyovich Kruchkov. Stepan Bulby, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u108	First of all, Your Honor, Kruczkov is not a sir. I'm asking you to consider this. Second, the committee isn't Kruchkov, the Supreme Council committee. Thirdly, there were only two Communists on the committee, and the entire committee voted. I'd like to think about it and be more restrained in the evaluation. None of us want to hold these issues in our hands, we have come out of the interests of the state and the interests of the pensioners, not the interests of a small group of bankers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u109	Please, Stepan Bulba. From the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u110	Socialist faction, Poltavian. I just want to point out that the committee has really decided to reject the draft of the national deputy of Chernevski, and I'm obviously going to try to explain why. We have reason simply to believe that accepting it is not appropriate at this time. Why? Because the adoption of this law will, firstly, lead to the following consequences, the payment of pensions to pensioners of all power ministries will be blocked. Since the law does not determine how state treasury will finance the budget for pension payments. The other one. The system of budget allocation among banking institutions will be complicated due to the lack of information on the number of pensioners who wish to receive a pension through one bank institution or another. Third. The deadlines for budgeting to retirees are increasing. Next. There will be difficulties in controlling the payment of pensions with different payout conditions. Whether a pensioner works or not. Retirement from two organs, etc. Next. There will be a need to develop a manual on how to pay pensions to the military, pensioners, each bank, except the State Savings Bank of Ukraine. Deal with all of this with strong structures, art. Next. There will be a need for additional expenditure on the production of basic pension documents. It will be necessary to introduce additional units of staff, both in Minfin and in military commissions, who will monitor the number of pensioners and from which banks they will be required to receive pensions. Finally, there will be a question of making a deduction from the State budget to the banking institutions for the service of the military pensioner, besides what we are doing now with regard to savings. But that's not even the main thing. So, Mr. Chernewicki says they don't have the right to retirees today to receive pensions through the bank they want. That's not true. The law now applies essentially all these issues and problems are removed. The law not only regulates the direct payment of pensions to pensioners, but also the mechanism for financing State budget expenditure for pension payments in general. As a result of the widespread fragmentation of savings, pensioners receive their pension in a timely manner. Retirement is done on time at a place of residence. And I'm going to add. Enough is enough for us to put the pensioners in a position where, for example, the same adjectives have been hit by problems with the Citybank, enough problems with the Bank of Ukraine. The pensioner must be sure. He said the state was protecting his interests. So far this is being done through the government bank, through savings. If we adopt another law, all of this may not change for the benefit of pensioners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u111	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Yeah, let's get down to business. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Yes. Is Victor Terrence there?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u112	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u113	You won't? Takes it off, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u114	The Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Our Ukraine, Solidarity. Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Now we're talking about the reliability of state banks. Thank God, we see and now we're investigating how the government bank once became not entirely state-owned, then its assets disappeared and then deposits. And remember what happened when the budget was transferred here, and where it's all now, and who's accounted for. It's about savings. I don't want my speech to cause any kind of panic or anything, but I would just like those people who clearly support and say it's a monopoly, that's very good. I'd like to think, at least, I'm willing to give what I've been preparing our committee in the past to call for a fight against corruption, organized crime about where the bank's loans went, what percentages, interest rates, how the Inter TV channel was financed, as well. Why were the profits of all the citizens of Ukraine, whom we now drive further? And I'm not talking anymore about this bank's complete esupply, which was driven by certain personnel issues, the decisions that the entire surfaces were kind of the people's deputies of Ukraine there in the banks. So I'm sorry, but I completely disagree with the findings of the National Security and Defence Committee on these issues. Ready to give, once again, ready to give documentary confirmation of everything I've said. And they were sent by me to the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office to respond accordingly. So from a professional point of view, I wanted to say that the bill introduced by the Montenegrin People's MP is intended to remove the restriction on the payment of pensions to military and internal affairs officials only through the establishment of a savings bank. I would like to say that with the adoption of this bill, justice will finally be restored. And I would like to say that I thank the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority for their proposal to make such an editorial that they would confirm fully confirmed the rightfulness of introducing such a bill. They offered such an editorial. In the second part of article 52 of the Ukrainian Act, "On the amendment of the Ukrainian Act on the Pension Insurance of Workers, Military Servants and Persons of the Primary Authority, write down instead of the words "the establishment of a savings bank by place of actual residence" to write "authorized banking institutions for the payment of pensions under the pensioner's consent irrespective of the place of registration of the natural person". This will be fair and will not limit the rights of a particular citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u115	Victor Mironenko, a faction of Communists, prepare for Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u116	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. Certain individuals have done all they can to bring about the collapse of the Bank of Ukraine and have so far failed to bear the responsibility, despite our insistent demands. There is now a desire to weaken the State Saving Bank, not to strengthen the banking system, but to weaken it. It is not surprising to me that two of the previous speakers are in favour of the bill, as they have spoken twice about the production and sale of weapons, because this makes a lot of money. But I wanted to talk about a friend. Ukraine has already become accustomed to lobbying, but when the Ukrainian people's MP lobbies the interests of his business, it is cynicism. Draft Law No. 2497, which provides for the elimination of the well-functioning rule of the Law on the Pensions of Soldiers and Servants of Internal Affairs. This rule will now enable these people to receive their pension at the State Saving Bank, which is more responsible than the same private Right Bank. Pensioners, when they get money in a bank, may, of course, be looking for higher interest by taking money off a bank account and bringing it to the same Pravexbank. It's a voluntary matter now. If, for example, this commercial bank is compromised, the State is not liable to investors. The State Bank, on the other hand, ensures some stability that should not be violated. The Czernovetski MP proposes to remove from the above-mentioned law the provision for a deposit and to replace it with the provision for the payment of pensions by commercial banks, which will not only reduce the protection of pensioners, but will also contribute to the weakening of the State Saving Bank, which does not preclude its liquidation. The pensioners of the armed forces and internal affairs bodies are speaking out in the vast majority against this innovation by the Montenegrin couple and as we see the previous speaker. To this end, this innovation is being implemented in order to weaken the State Bank, in order to increase the income of the same private Praveksbank, for the benefit of individuals by again and again the majority of the people. Well, Pravexbank, we understand what he's trying to do, to increase his income. Ladies and gentlemen, I call upon all of you to vote against the draft law on behalf of the members of the armed forces and internal affairs in order to preserve the strength and development of the State Bank. Again, I would like to say the following to the draft bill that lobbyed once again to the Chernevskis on the possibility of profit from the sale of weapons. The Crimea is still using sticks and metal rods, if that happens, what Chernovetski and his comrade want in this case will be shot there and Kosovo will be there, there will be others. It's a terrible phenomenon, and I'm afraid it's going to be on Chernevski's conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u117	Just a minute. Finish it, take the floor as a drafter, I'll do it again. Sit down, please. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. Finally, I told you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u118	Dear colleagues. Vladimir Cherniak, "Our Ukraine" faction, Ukrainian People's Party. We are now discussing a very important issue, the question of the reliability of pension payments by banking institutions. Our responsibility is to increase this trustworthiness, and we must not throw ourselves from one extreme to another. I understand the Czernovetsk deputy who is opposed to the monopoly in this matter, against one bank to monopolize this area. He wants to enter competition and give you a choice. But on the other hand, you can make the wrong choice and go to a commercial bank that's unreliable, and retirees don't always know the degree of reliability of this bank, and there may be losses. So, as it were, we're sailing here between Scylla and Haribda. On the one hand, monopolism is not good, competition is missing, there is no choice. On the other hand, there is a danger that pensioners may assume that they can receive payments through unreliable banks and eventually lose their pensions. What Is the Solution? As always, this exit is somewhere in the middle. I don't insist that the Savings Bank be a monopoly, but I need to write out clear mechanisms to guide these pensions so that they don't get paid by those banks that are unreliable. Now about the Savings Bank, that's why I took the floor. I am a member of the Board of Supervisors of the Savings Bank. It's a state bank. I agree with Deputy Karmazin that there were serious problems in this bank, there was an audit of the National Bank, there was an international audit, and there were serious problems. We even kept it a little quiet so as not to cause any panic. But the Supervisory Board switched heads, and we changed the head of the Supervisory Board. After that we switched heads of government of the Savings Bank, there was the Grybkov head of government, there is now Shapovalov, he was the deputy head of the National Bank. And recently, there have been significant positive changes in this bank, and the bank's credibility has increased. I am responsible as a member of the Supervisory Board, and I want you to know and know that our listeners, pensioners and investors of this bank have significantly improved the situation with regard to and the accumulation of payments regarding the loan portfolio has increased the bank's credibility. So you can use this bank, but I don't rule out that you can also use other reliable banking institutions to pay pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u119	Thank you. Please, from the government that you think about the bill, Mikhail Vasilovich. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We expressed our point of view in this regard. We think that this is not a subject of legislative regulation, and we would ask that we leave the order that exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u120	Is the Ministry of Defense holding the same position? _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Yes, the ministry feels the same way about leaving the existing payout order.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u121	Please, the author of the draft law, Mr. Czernowetské Leonid Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u122	First of all, I want to say that those who listen to us on the radio knew, didn't they? - that I have an absolutely equal attitude towards the communists and the left and the right, and to anyone, and I love anyone, including whoever tried to make me a villain all over Ukraine, and to tell you that I'm about to arm someone in Crimea. No one's going to arm anyone. Everything has to be orderly. There's no weapons law today, so the bandits are armed, so here's the people who aren't. Those who obey the law do not have it. And I hold that I've been in a party for 10 years, and I think Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz signed me a party ticket, and I know the originals very well, yes. Well, you should read them about what Lenin said again. I remind you that the people must be armed if they are free. The level of freedom of the country depends on it. As for banks that can.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u123	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u124	There's no problem with that. Any bank can.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u125	A review of the bill amending the Law on Pensions for Civil Servants and Persons of the Chief and Private Staff of Internal Affairs has been completed, and some others on the payment of pensions by the banking institutions. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. Dear colleagues, we've got five minutes left, then we'll go to different places. Our colleague, Nadrag, is offering us a very quick introduction of the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Act on Pension Insurance for Workers of Infectious and Psychiatric Hospitals. Is there no objection? Please, Vasil Ivanovich. Within five minutes, we move on to different places.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, our colleague Feldman's pension bill, to amend the Pension Insurance Act is rather short. The bottom line is this. Under the Pension Insurance Act, article 60, a list of the specialities of health care professionals has been issued, such as those who treat persons infected with the immunodeficiency virus, patients with AIDS, pathological anathets and rehabilitation facilities. The bottom line is this. According to this article, people working in these specializations have the right to count the period of service for these professions in two years when they are on pension. The specificity, risk of work and complexity are taken into account. Our colleague Feldman proposes to add workers of infectious and psychiatric institutions. We have considered this issue before the Committee on Veterans, Disabled Persons and Pensioners. The Committee supported our colleague's proposal to accept this. And accordingly, based on the logic that workers in infectious and psychiatric health care institutions work in very complex and often even dangerous conditions, also to grant them the right to consider their work in these institutions as two years old when calculating their pension. I must tell you and report that the relevant decision of the Scientific and Expert Office of our Supreme Council also supports this idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u127	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues! There is a need to discuss this matter. I think a few words please. Yuri Carmazin, please. Turn on the microphone. I ask very briefly. We've got three minutes left to make a difference.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u128	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Of course, the offer is very interesting, very good, but here's the question. The question is that it is absolutely necessary to make benefits and raise wages for those who work in transparent, opposing institutions for the treatment of people infected with immunodeficiency, AIDS, pathologists who work on extremely difficult issues. All we have to do is reconcile it with the requirements of the Budget Code. That is, it will have to be recorded in the law that it can be considered not earlier than 1 January 2004, not since its publication, as stated in the bill. Because we have to predict. We're going to be able to take the money out of these institutions where these people work. Do you understand? We'll make them poor. In order not to do so, we need to anticipate changes in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u129	Vladimir Puzakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u130	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Kirovogradština I'd like to make a request from psychiatrists and Kirovgradians. For amendments and additions to list two, the inclusion of the above-mentioned experts must be governed by the Ministry of Labour’s directive of 19.08. In 94 C.E., on the organization of business, industry, employment, jobs, jobs, and indicators that grant the right to pension insurance. In line with this command, the main thing is to carry out job testing for the above-mentioned categories of workers, but job testing is not done for more than five years because of the lack of funds, and when it is done, selectively and not fully. The article on the protection of work over the last five years, unfortunately, did not allocate funds. In addition, it is necessary to study occupational illness in the category of workers, temporary loss of work, and the relationship between working conditions that are not specifically studied by doctors. And these figures will be more reliable when they're studied in several areas or in Ukraine as a whole. There is also a need to study the prevalence of bacillus and viralism among infectious doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u131	Mikhailo Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u132	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to be given a regulatory definition, because I want to raise a very important topic about the activity of psychiatric hospitals, in general, what's going on in this area. I think the problem is as sensitive as all the problems in the state. Today, there are 1.2 million mentally ill people in Ukraine. I'm just going to give you a few examples of how these facilities work. As far as the bill is concerned, I'm going to support it because these people who work in psychiatric hospitals are making government orders to serve these people. The State gave them the opportunity to serve and care for these people. See what's going on in our homes today. I'm going to the government, I'm going to go to the new minister of health, and then we're going to evaluate what we're going to do in this direction. This is about two establishments: The Winnitsky Psychic and the Cherniews. Two budgets, two different approaches to this problem. In the Chernobyl region, at a rate of 5 G's, 50 G's, the 9 K's are released on the day of the 9th anniversary. In Winnitz there is a total of 5 bracelets of 80 copies. By budget. In Chernobyl, 0.36 copies per day of medicine are given to one patient, at least that the standard is seven. And there are seven bracelets in the winery. Two budgets, two different approaches to the fate of these people. What is the chief physician of the Sahalejev doing in Chernobyl today? He walks with an outstretched hand. The result is that there are no mattresses, there is nothing to lay on, as they say. And that's where the power goes. We should not react that way, because these are the sick, these are our people, the citizens of Ukraine, we have to take care of them. There are other questions about pay. Here I really support this retirement support bill, but look, today, the doctor gets a higher category in this -- 330 dollars. Is that pay? Nurse 229 bucks. The nurse gets 221 bracelets. About the minimum wage, 185 bucks, not even a word. I had a conversation with the chief doctor just the other day. There's 165 bracelets and 185 bracelets. Nobody's even having a conversation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u134	I would like both the government and the Ministry of Health to pay attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u135	Helen Vasilovna Garjacha is the Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The position of the government on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u136	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, with your permission, I will provide information to the people's deputies that the adoption of this bill requires 17.5 million. That's right. The author of the bill did not determine the sources of coverage. In addition, these workers are now retired at 45 years of age, calculating their employment for a year or two will enable them to retire early, at 35 years of age. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, the information of the Cabinet of Ministers will move us to think. With this in mind, we will be determined on the day of the vote. We've completed our consideration of the issue of the draft law amending and supplementing the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act. [[on workers in infectious and psychiatric hospitals]] We'll make a decision on Thursday, the day of the vote. Now, let's move on to the question "Crazy." Please state the name of the national MPs who signed up for the various shows. Yes, Yuri Carmazin, please. Get ready for Sergey Weak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u138	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. I am hereby authorized to make a statement to the faction of Victor Yuschenk's bloc, "Our Ukraine". 16 months of activity under the leadership of Victor Yushchenk, who initiated the process of paying off multi-year debts from wages and gradually increasing the salaries of budget workers. However, the irresponsible and shortsighted policy of the following governments regarding the reform of the pay system has led to a crisis in the budget. Raising the minimum wage without any attempts to maintain the proportion of skilled budget workers: educators, doctors, cultural workers, and others, has created a situation in society where the level of education, qualifications, and experience of the worker is completely underestimated. This policy of power leads to the effluence of the intelligence of Ukraine, the decline in the prestige of education, which means the degradation of society as a whole. The absence of a consistent state policy in this area has resulted in the accumulation of debt due to the non-payment of allowances provided for in article 57 of the Education Act of Ukraine. Partial payments of these debts are based on court decisions based on budget allocations this year to paralyse the industry’s activities, causing dissatisfaction with the main part of the education staff. A similar situation has arisen in the health system and among cultural workers. The patience of Ukrainian intelligence is exhausted. The time of responsibility of authority, which is so popular today, is now upon us. On April 15, the All - Ukrainian campaign will be held against education, health, and culture workers, organized by industry and professional associations. Where's our Ukraine? "Our Ukraine" fully supports the goals and requirements of this action and will take an active part in it. Victor Yuschenk's faction "Our Ukraine" requires the effective authority to impose the conditions for the payment of the work of budget workers on the basis of a single tariff network with the establishment of the staff member's rate of the first tariff charge in the size of the established minimum wage. Resume the inter-employment ratio of budget workers from January 1, 2003, based on the minimum wage established by the Ukrainian Law. The other one. By April 15, the Supreme Council had introduced the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Budget for 2003 to provide additional subsidies to local budgets to increase salaries for budget workers in accordance with the single tariff network. Admit debts to budget staff, wages, and other payments provided for by valid legislation. To develop a mechanism for their restructuring and phase-out over the next two or three years. Society on the verge of a social breakdown. And only the immediate fulfillment of our requirements will enable us to turn it away. "Our Ukraine" was and will be with the Ukrainian people, our unity, our joint actions guaranteeing that honest politics serves national interests and is the driving force behind the progress of Ukrainian society towards a decent life in our Ukraine. Praise our Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u139	Sergei Slabenko. The next Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u140	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! It's the first year of the delegation's mandate. For me personally, I would like to present my first report in part of fulfilling the duties of a national MP. Having isolated the most painful questions, I would like to tell you how citizens’ rights are protected in part of their health. On 27.03.2003, 120 citizens approached the National Deputy, using public receptions that were built in election district number 19, in the number of four units. [[to me]] The main issues raised by citizens are the request to assist in treatment within the area -- 86 citizens, asking for treatment outside the area -- 20 people, 14 people to help people with disabilities. There was also a request to contribute to the construction of a central district hospital in the village of Ivanichi, the construction of a central district hospital in Lubomir and a specialized boarding school for hearing impaired children in the town of Vladimir Volinsky. And the creation of a specialized rehabilitation center in Novovolinsk. In this regard, realizing that the weapons of the national MP are the law and the requirement of all officials to comply with the law, I have been given more than 60 references to various legislative and executive structures, as well as local authorities. The analysis of the answers to treatment problems within the area over the course of this time gives me the opportunity to point out that 88 citizens who would need to be resolved by facilitating self-sustainment have only begun to resolve these issues this year. For the first time, after realizing this, the administration began to provide partial financial assistance through the Social Protection Fund and for the first time called attention to the need to treat people for free. Until then, an analysis of the answers showed that these were only formal quotations that had the basic questions: Controlled, decided with a desire to answer. At the same time, the question arose that working with doctors, directly, by the chief doctors of the district hospitals, leads to these issues being resolved. Yet they rightly ask the question: Help us to resolve the issue of when the executive authority in the area protects our rights by requiring compliance with the requirements of the law, budgeting, filling the issue of the money needed for the purchase of the funds. I realize that I can't explain everything right now, because one analysis, which is based on the monitoring of turns, is more than 20 pages. I ask you to convey this, my speech is considered to be an appeal to the Minister of Health and I request a request from the Minister of Health and I demand the creation of a commission that could provide an answer as to how the appeals of the national deputies are being checked and who personally bears the responsibility that the head of the State has never taken responsibility for giving an honest and frank answer to the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u141	Thank you. Victor Taran, next Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u142	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. First of all, Gennady Andriyovich, I had a deal with Vladimir Mikhailovich in connection with the fact that I did not speak, although it was written down, that rule was added. It was in your eyes, I don't know if you were listening or not, but I won't even be 6 minutes, but minutes 4.5-5, please. This is an arrangement with the Head of the Supreme Council. That's all right, thank you. First question. Two questions. Gennady Andriyovich, this is the first question to you. A group of national deputies filed a draft decree to hold parliamentary hearings on the problems of Ukrainians displaced in 1944 from Podljuska, the Netherlands, to Ukraine. And this question was discussed on the committee. And the committee made a positive decision. The problems that should be addressed here have also been addressed on the committee of the Zibenka of politics, work, and also positive. And I'd like to say that Matsuk's conclusion, that the scientific expertise is also positive. I mean, all the documents in the Supreme Council directly and it was about to be put to the vote on this issue this Thursday. Sadly, though, Gennady Josephovich was not on the Conciliation Council, and the question came to light. The question is extremely important. We're not going to have any disturbance in society even to remove the political and legal assessment of this situation, i.e. there's no claim to Poland or to this power that they were. We just want to look at Gennady Andriyovich in a complex way.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u143	You don't need to do that. That's the question we have on April 17th.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u144	Thank you very much. I just wanted to emphasize it again, because people, you know, write letters. Don't forget. Okay? Let's have it for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u145	It's already written.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u146	Okay, thank you. Very soon. Now for the second question. Dear friends! There is such a village of Pavlish in the Kirov town of Onufreev district. In this village, the Pavlish High School of the world’s renowned teacher, Vasil Alexanderovich Sukhomlinski, is known worldwide. There was a time when they went to the school to learn and learn from Cuba, Japan, from many countries. Today, unfortunately, the village is neglected, the school needs repairs, and the question has long been raised to give Pavlish High School the status of a teaching reserve. The more I have, the more time I have, the more the Makarenko homeland. You know, this is the kind of bush where two outstanding teachers came from: Makarenko and Sukhomlinski. I want to say that in March last year, Mr. Seminozhenko, the former Humanitarian Vice Prime Minister, came to Paulia School. He vowed to give the school such status. But today there is no Seminomist in this position, there is no "Ukrainian One", there are no promises. Yulia Timoshenko's block today and you and I are forced to defend this school today. I would like not to lose that pedagogical idea that is in Ukraine, that they will continue to come to us to learn spirituality, to raise the image of our country around the world, to do what teachers ask, what they insist on, what the former Vice Prime Minister promised before the elections -- Seminozhenko. And I would ask, Your Honor Gennady Andryovich, to consider my speech as an official parliamentary request to the Deputy Prime Minister from the humanitarian issues of Dmitry Vasilovich Tobacco, to Mr. Vasil Kremin's Minister of Education, finally, when this issue is resolved, about giving the Pavli High School the name Vasil Alexandrovich Suhmlin's Pedagogical Protector status to our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u147	Thank you. The miller Mikola Eutychyevich. Next Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u148	Dear Chief, distinguished MPs! During the last year, the economic situation in agriculture has deteriorated considerably. As a result of the financial and economic activity in 2002, more than half of the agricultural enterprises ended up in a year with major losses. On the subject of a peasant's robbery yesterday, a draft of Ukraine's Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Fixed Agricultural Taxes was considered. This law regulated the pension provisions of workers, namely, mechanics, pensioners, and pensioners in previous years. Payments of the State’s pension payments were compensated. Our committee, headed by Ivan Antonovich, took into account the critical situation in the village, rejected the offer of Zajczuk’s head of the pension fund to transfer the pension burden of the state to 70 million dollars. Regrettably, members of the pro-Presidential faction who were aggressively targeted to the village voted in favour of further destruction of the peasant. Sadly, the Yushchenka faction has also moved away from the village, the village of Yushchenko, a carefree village. But it really hurts that Katerina Vaschuk, the head of the agrarian faction, votes against the village that she was supposed to protect, and it's not once again, even though her faction voted in favour. Of course, there is no limit to the looting of the village. New and new zombies are being invented by the authorities, and they are being used by the media. Last year, Kuchma and Kinakh, speaking in these instruments, duped the peasant with a record pile of grain. Such a zombie was purposeful, conscious. Because of the fictional record, the oligarchs bought grain at low prices. Seven billion dollars worth of grain was robbed. And now it turns out that there was no such thing in the state. How much it takes not to love the village and the state of man. Leonidas Danilovich Kuchma and Kinaha, I can call it after such a robbery as the forerunners. The ringleaders in this new affair rallied billions of barrels, suddenly realized that the looted were dissatisfied, even aggressive, and here was the election of the day before. Perhaps after counseling, they decided to sacrifice one of their great-grandparents, namely, Deputy Prime Minister Kozachenk. It was calculated that this next sacrifice would be swallowed by the people, just as Lazarus had swallowed in his day. Folks, since Leonid Danilovich Kuchma Lazarenko made the number one criminal, have you become more comfortable living? Could you have been robbed less? No, you're being robbed. Lazarenko, compared to your current thieves, is a pocket thief. On condition that more is proved to be his fault. In view of the fact that the Supreme Council has formed a Temporary Commission of Inquiry, and in the field of grain study and bread prices, we ask that all Ukrainians be notified to the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the national deputy of Ukraine, Michael Melniczuk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u149	Shershun, next Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u150	It's the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. The Honourable Head, the Honourable People's Deputies, the April moon is a month written in the history of Ukraine in black, the color of the Chernobyl disaster. And as a district deputy affected by this environmental disaster, I am obliged to address the problem of polluted areas from this rostrum. Taking this opportunity, I would like to thank the new government and the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Viktor Janukovic, Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Gregory Revie, for his active support for the interests of the affected. Because in the first quarter of this year, perhaps for the first time in recent years, the financing of Chernobyl benefits was carried out according to proven limits in full. However, if current payments are not delayed, the problem of debt repayment in recent years remains extremely acute. In the Plains alone, the nation’s debt amounted to more than 75 million dollars today, nearly half of them being paid for work in radioactive areas, nearly 21 million for compensation to families with children, and expenses for free nutrition. I am not saying that we have lost more than tens of years without financing or healing the polluted land. The same is true in other regions of Ukraine. These questions need to be addressed. Given that we will soon meet another sad anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. I'm talking to the government today. First. To be able to pay off at least 50 percent of the repayments for this year; The other one. To listen to the demands of the population living in a polluted area and in a 30 - mile - long zone from an active nuclear power plant, and we have them in the Plains, count two, introduce the tax tariffs on electricity. Such practices have long existed in Western nations. Please consider my statement to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovič. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u151	Vasil Antonovich Kalinchuk. Next Gurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u152	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs, I would like to draw once again the attention of the government, the Supreme Council, to the situation that took place in the spring field of Ukraine this year, and it is extremely difficult. According to the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, scientific institutions are expected to die over four million hectares or about 50 percent during the winter period as a result of extremely unfavourable climate conditions. According to experts, 8.2 billion people are required to carry out spring-field work. That's right. In addition, farmers need to spend more than one and a half billion dollars to move winters. Things are getting very late in the spring, causing the need to concentrate technical, material, and financial resources in a very short period of time. In doing so, we need to take into account the considerable lack of technical means, and those who have endurance are 70 percent. In this regard, I will deal with some problems that need immediate solutions. First of all, it is necessary for the government to ensure the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Promotion of Rural Development for the period 2001-2004, which provides, inter alia, that compulsory crop insurance payments are compensated at least 50 per cent by the State Budget, which will allow, at least in part, for the costs of natural farmers. Secondly, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine adopted a decree of April 2, this year, which approved a number of measures to support farmers. Including the provision of another three million dollars of credit. Unfortunately, the mechanism for obtaining them is not detailed. Because a lot of farms can't get loans because there's no liquid flag. As an outcome, in our view, such farms could receive credit from banks under government guarantees or from local government administrations. It is certainly necessary to make appropriate changes to the 2003 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine and other laws by providing for the cost of technology, at least thirty million dollars, and by supporting regions that are in particularly unsavory agri-climate conditions, at least one hundred million dollars. Third. As an exception, it has been established that farmers start paying taxes and collecting compulsory payments since the first September of this year. Allow the self-government authorities to use local budgets for financial and credit support to farmers, including on a reverse basis. And once again, let me emphasize: The government should urgently make proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on these issues, and the Supreme Council should accept them. As the people say, "One spring day and year feeds." There's no time for roaches. So we need to urgently address the village’s urgent needs at all levels. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u153	Thank you. Turn on the Vashtuk microphone, please. And I'm asking you, don't insult each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u154	Dear radio listeners, distinguished colleagues. Today, people’s MP Melnik was accused of misvoring the law. I'm going to believe today and tomorrow that the committee has acted treacherously simply by rejecting the law and not giving an answer: how to provide pensions for those people who are going to make decisions about pension benefits. Unfortunately, it is true that the Pension Fund is now being implemented by just under a third of the agrarian sector. And we hear constant reprimands from different sectors of the national economy that they are filling out the Pension Fund, and this village is not doing enough. So when we make decisions about pension legislation, we have to give a clear answer to where to get the money for the peasants' pension. And that's the answer we prepared. The following will be considered by our law, which will answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u155	All right, thanks, time's up. Okay. Turn off the microphone. Please don't touch each other. The word is Shurmi, the next Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u156	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished fellow MPs. When I met with voters in the Lviv region Drogobica, I was placed as a national deputy with several problems, and I believe that these problems today should unite people of different political beliefs and political preferences. What are these problems? In my view, the problems of the technology security of Lviv and Ukraine as a whole should actually unite our efforts. I want to remind you that the territory of the Lviv region is characterized by a significant distribution of dangerous geological, both natural and technologically activated processes. The particularities of the physical and geographical conditions of the presence of the developed industry, including hazardous production, a large number of transport communications, and the state of production, housing and sewage, which is once again quite large in many cases, create a complex technological and ecological environment in the area, can lead to virtually all kinds of accidents, disasters, with the exception of life-support systems and population viability. The region's acute environmental problems include the state of the mining sector, which is represented by mining, chemical, carbon, and oil and gas industries. One example of danger is the Borislav osocerite lineage, which has supplies of natural osocerite, directly to the historic center of Borislav. More than 100 years have been involved in the development of the genealogy. The Osokerite mine with methane gas emissions depends on supercategories and is explosive. Given the need to maintain a safe state, a comprehensive programme of measures has been developed to eliminate socio-economic, environmental, technological consequences of long-term oil mining and to address the problems of further development of low-integrated and marginally depleted stocks of Lvivian crops for 2005 and submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers as early as 2000. I'd like to remind you that there are more than 50 population locations in the techno-activated karst area. The situation in the area of Stebnik's state-owned chemical plant Polymineral is disturbing. I would like to remind you that the problems began in 1978 when an earthquake struck in Romania. In 1983, there was an accident at the woodshed of a prosperous factory: a dam bursting into a hydrographic network of the Dniester River, more than 5 million cubic feet [5 million cu m] of salt waste. In 1983, 72 million carbs were damaged by the national economy. Yes, there is a programme for rehabilitation of mining areas in the Lviv region for the period 2007, but there is a need for state support and rehabilitation of mining areas in Lviv and Ukraine, an urgent adoption of a number of laws in Ukraine that have long been on the Committees of the Supreme Council: the Environmental Audit Act, the Environmental Insurance Act, a series of documents aimed at the inescapable enforcement of financing of monitoring surveys of problem areas. The faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine stresses and warns that overcoming the consequences of catastrophic phenomena that will lead to significant material consequences will be handled by the Ministry of Emergency Situations at the expense of the Reserve Fund of the State Budget of Ukraine, and once again the people of Ukraine will suffer from shortcomings. [[united]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u157	Your Honor, do you realize you're taking time off from your colleagues? Please, Vladimir Leschenko, next, Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u158	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Nigga. Dear Hennaday Andryovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The executive power of Ukraine, led by President Kuchma, reaffirmed that the internal economic and social problems interest her much less than the preservation and strengthening of power itself. To this end, significant amounts of government funds are being spent, endangering the security of the people of Ukraine. An adventure headed to war with Iraq by the Ukrainian battalion, which, by the way, supported 253 Ukrainian national deputies from the pro-President factions and so-called opponents of the Victorian faction "Our Ukraine" will tear millions of dollars away from the state budget. At a time when I am hundreds of thousands of children and elderly people, there is nothing to buy milk with bread. This is also true of the sudden public discussion of the Presidential kind of initiative on political reform, which has the main objective of strengthening the power of the President. Once again, huge amounts of money have been spent. large circulations of brochures and instructions, recommendations. Instead of organizing spring-field work and carrying out other urgent problems, all state administrations and their subordinated bodies are now engaged in the organization's approval of the President's proposals. They're thinking about how to get 100 percent approval. The opinions of Ukrainian citizens are of no interest to them at all, and they are, by the way, different. Here's one of them. Address to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Speaks the citizen of the village of Brezne. the district of Chernigiv, which took place on 9 March 2003, are addressed to you by the national electorate with a painful question. Having heard about President Kuchma’s appeal to reform and the distribution of power, after discussing our plight, which was led by the Presidential antinational reforms, there is no work, and who is still working, there is no pay, there is nothing to live for, and there is nothing to live for, and at the same time, the seized media is all advertising nutritious meat dogs and basket cans, and we have only one potato. The congregations noted that all power in Ukraine, led by President Kuchma, had been corrupted by corruption and had merged with the gang-roar clans that had looted and continued to pillage the illegal takeover of the good of the people created by several generations of Ukraine. Designed by the Presidential environment and by Kuchma's new deception, it seems that the redistribution of power actually leaves all the power of the President to continue to destroy and pillage Ukraine and at the same time to cover the bandit clans. There is no such power as in Kuchma in any country of the world. There is a provision with appropriate requirements. One of them, to believe that only when the one-palatable Supreme Council approves the laws, the government of Ukraine conscientiously executes them, and the independent judiciary will observe that they are observed, will the rebuilding of the established national economy begin. There are signatures here. Dear Hennady Andriyovich! I'll give you the original. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u159	Vladimir Puzakov. Next Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u160	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština I've talked a few times from this rostrum about the corruption that's surrounding the entire area and the district city where they're living today on the principle of "the worse you're doing better." Today it is the only city in Ukraine that has not received a budget. For more than two months now, as the seventh session of the Kirovograd City Council has raised the issue of the city’s budget for 2003. However, recent developments do not give rise to optimism that the main financial document will soon be considered and accepted. The Syrians are deeply concerned about the political crisis in the city of Kirovgrad, created by the deputies of the "Trudova Ukraine" faction. They went to the town’s session, directing the faction to stop trying to discredit the city’s head before the electorate, to consider the fate of their electorate. By their destructive actions, this faction deprives medical personnel, teachers, educators, cultural workers, and other wages, the sick — drugs and medical care, school students, children in preschool homes — food supplies for the entire local community — heat, water, light, transportation, housing and urban roads. Perhaps the MPs of "Trouble Ukraine" have forgotten the status of the City Council MP. Who gave you the right to use a parliamentary mandate for personal or useful purposes? Do you not see the roads in the city, or do you not feel the cold that your electorates live in every day? You don't know how hard it is for that hungry kid to go to school and sit there in the cold. How can it be done without money? For voters, it is common interest to create human conditions of life, work, education, treatment, and rest. In this direction, the main efforts of the city’s head, Mikola Chigirina, are concentrated. This is the focus of the economic and social development programme and the budget of the city for 2003. Unfortunately, the Labour Ukraine factions deliberately put their personal interests ahead of the electorate's interests and, having a majority of them, block the work of the city council. In the same way, Ukraine’s State Budget Act was grossly violated. Using the rostrum of the Supreme Council, I appeal to all the citizens who hear me, to the leaders of enterprises, institutions, educational institutions, heads of regional and urban political parties, veteran organizations and social associations, with the proposal to support the city's head of Chigirina in solving the complex socio-economic problems that are pressing in our city. In solving the problem of effective cooperation between the city’s head and the deputy corps, all residents of the city are interested. A way out of this situation is possible. After all, the city’s head and city council members have the desire to work for results in the interests of the electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u161	Anatoly Frost, Communist faction. Get ready for Humenjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u162	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I was forced to speak from this rostrum by the councils of the veteran organizations of Vasiliovsky, Vasiliovsky, Mikhailovsky, Po. in the Chernigiv region of Zaporozhye to the President of Ukraine and to the Minister of Health. They ask, "Do you know, Mr. President, and Mr. Minister, that there is a grave violation in Ukraine of the Constitution of Ukraine, in particular article 49 on the right of citizens of Ukraine to free treatment and the prohibition of the reduction of treatment facilities." But instead of improving the health care system, with a view to creating conditions and more accessible preventive examinations, stationary and rehabilitation treatments are essential for veterans. Presidential Decree No. 442 of May 8, 2002 "On the State-wide Comprehensive Program of Socio-medical Care for War Veterans for the period to 2005, the so-called optimization of the network of health facilities in rural areas is being carried out, and in fact the elimination of already extremely limited facilities for hospitalization of veterans, villagers in places or in a central district hospital in the Tokmatic CL. To which six rural areas were attached, in the tens of the 1990s, several hospital beds were reduced by 2.1 times, the number of doctors 1.5 times, the average medical staff twice. In 2001, they eliminated their own cardiological, gastroenterology. In 2002, the Ophthalmological, Surgical, Trauma Unit reduced 74 rates of doctors, 26 average medical personnel, 24 younger staff, 16 others, and 70 beds. For 2003, 20 posts and 20 beds are planned to be reduced. In the villages of the Tokmati district, three district hospitals have been converted into infirmary. And so in 50 locations, stationary treatment is eliminated. Discussing such optimism, gross violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, ignoring the decree of the President of Ukraine, the veteran community demands, as a minimum, that the international status of the former branches of the Tokyo Central District Hospital be restored to the very necessary treatment of the population of the six rural areas that I have already mentioned. Thanks to the district health department, it responded promptly and positively to the decision to create a mission of the Tokmakkrizian Gerontopsychiatric Center for 125 beds, where some 3,000 veterans could be fully examined and healed each year. However, this did not appeal to the leaders of the district medical facilities concentrated in Zaporozhye city, who were pursuing narrow awareness-raising interests, they blocked, stopped work on the establishment of this veteran center, and corrected the historical error of the slanting system of the district network of medical facilities, so 10 million were still available for 2003. The money for the construction of a new district hospital, again in Zaporozhye, and Tokmak is the geographic center of the area, leading to the waste of money. I, Sir Vladimir Mikhailovich, ask you to consider my speech as a parliamentary request and to send it to the President and Minister of Health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u163	Oleg Gumenyuk, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Katuszevi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u164	Oleg Gumenuk, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce my appeal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was sponsored by a group of National Deputies of the "For Honorary Authority, for Better Life" faction of the Cremenacian District Council of the Ternopil region at a meeting with the Ukrainian National Deputies. Address: "On 26 December 2002, the Cremenac District Council adopted a very harsh statement on the political situation in Ukraine. To that end, the district council was forced by a critical situation in the area. Almost all industrial enterprises in the region were brought to such a state that they could not function. Then they were privatized by parts from other regions of Ukraine and even America. Not only did they not work after the company’s privatisation but they also deteriorated significantly, resulting in even greater unemployment, and former workers going abroad to work. Even worse is the situation in agriculture. Its so - called reformation is the main cause of this situation. The reform was carried out in such a way that the earth would not be cultivated. Instead, almost all of the equipment is sold at no cost for debts or is estranged from business leaders or individuals with gross violations of Ukrainian legislation. In most farms, even though the assets to pay off the loan had been allocated separately, the property that had been allocated to the rations fund, namely, was shared in the ownership of the peasants and had written down the property certificates. After the reform, the villagers stayed with the papers, and it was made in 40 to 50 years of hard work. All appeals to law enforcement agencies, the President's Administration, do not produce any results. Such a critical situation in Kremenecina and Ternopilska has led the area to disappear from the map of Ukraine. And the fault is not for the inhabitants of this region, the privatization of industrial enterprises is run by the Ukrainian Holding Fund without any consent of the local authorities without taking into account the local specificities. The reform of agriculture is also recommended by Kiev: the heads of administration are appointed by the President, but for the sake of the present they have no rights, they can only recommend. We believe that our agrarian country has been led to such a critical state by a policy run by the authorities in Ukraine, and we demand the removal of violations of Ukrainian legislation, the rights and freedoms of citizens in Kremenecina. To this end, we propose the creation of an investigative commission of opposition forces for which almost all the electorate of the region voted, and the verification of the privatization of industrial enterprises and the consequences of the reform of agriculture in the region. In addition, at my meeting on 25 March this year, her participants accepted a statement requested from the Supreme Council’s rostrum regarding the non-support of constitutional and political reform by the authorities for fear of stopping these initiatives from the democratic processes of Ukraine. In order to confirm the sincere intentions of deepening democracy in Ukraine, they call on the dominant factions of the Supreme Council to support the bill on changes to the Constitution, the authors of which are: Alexander Moroz, Head of State, Matvienko and other deputies, who went through an expert study of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u165	Zara Katusheva's Communist faction, get ready for the Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u166	Honourable deputies, distinguished voters, Communist faction, Katusheva, Autonomous Republic of Crimea. After a number of ambiguous publications from the press and from the TV screen on behalf of my fellow countrymen, I had no moral right not to address my people, my constituents, today. All of us are experiencing complex, far from being clearly accepted by all of us. Most of the world's population condemns the policies of the United States and its intercessors, and the problem of the Iraqi people has been perceived as their personal pain and tragedy. In these troubled times there are those who are "the worse the better." Someone sleeps and sees the second Chechnya in Crimea. Don't wait! These are the heaps of villains and perverts who are directly or indirectly involved in what our great country has been dismembered, who have betrayed what they worshiped, and who are not repulsed to call on their fellow believers to go against their own brothers in the faith. I repeat. Don't wait! I'm a Crimean Tatar, and I'm proud of it. But I do not want my people's rights, however much I love them, to be resolved by violating the rights of other people living in the Crimea. We're familiar with this kind of Führer cover from history, and we know exactly how it ended. Communists are constantly trying to trap the enemies of the Crimean Tatar people. These gentlemen would know the stories that it was the Communists who led Lenin that created the Crimean Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic in 1921. Whether it should be recalled that the Communists have common human ideals of good, peace, justice, mercy, beauty. The Communists have nothing to hide from the people to whom they serve and whose interests they express. As early as 1989, it was precisely the two thousand members of the Supreme Council of the USSR, most of whom were Communists, who had adopted a declaration recognizing eviction as genocide and crime, as well as a decree on the restoration of the rights of deported peoples. I could bring back much more historical facts, but the Rules would not allow that to happen. And who has given the right to decide and speak on behalf of my people in general, for most of my people have been in solidarity with those of my countrymen who held a rally in Simferopol on 28 March in support of their fellow believers in Iraq and have been indignantly condemning the aggression of the United States in Iraq and all those who voted in favour of ratifying the agreement and sending the Ukrainian battalion to Kuwait. That is the position of my people, because always in the fight against injustice, poverty, unemployment, corruption, crime and moral degradation, the fight against high-ranking thieves and bandits, the unity of all honest and orderly citizens, regardless of the faith of confession and in this holy fight against this impurity, we are all one nation with you: the Soviet people. They're trying to hit us with their foreheads, split us up on national grounds. It won't work. I believe that such publications are directed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u167	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u168	Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich, a minute. I believe that such publications aimed at international exposure should be criminalized. I call on all to increase vigilance and cohesion, and excruciations, and not to be provoked. I look forward to understanding and strengthening international peace and harmony. I am convinced that only our joint efforts will enable all of us to maintain peace and prosperity on our beautiful earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u169	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u170	Thank you. I'd like to go to the radio people for the first time this time, of course, because that's the number of national MPs left here, too. And in general, I'd like to suggest, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we continue our discussions at the Vulnerable. If it's two hours, it's going to be 20 and 40, 50, 100 deputies. I think we need to increase this, and it's going to be more interesting to the radio audiences both to our voters and to the national MPs. There's going to be a bigger audience. And I would like to take two positions with a brief assessment of the events that took place in Ukraine. In particular, I would like to return to the subject of political prisoners. At present, the Lukyanov insulator continues to be held by members of the Ukrainian National Assembly of the Ukrainian People's Self-Defense, the boys who are accused of crimes they did not commit, and the court has proved it. It's just that right now they're being held there as just people who are responsible for their political actions. Well, of course, the health situation of these boys is getting worse now, and it can be said that many are experiencing irreversible changes. In view of the failure to provide medical attention to those who were sick, the hungry boys who were there were reported to be starving. Of course, we turned, and I called on them personally to stop the hunger, because it wouldn't solve anything and it would only make their condition worse, but nevertheless I want to draw attention to the literally shameful state in which they're being abused and beaten -- it's already the norm. Because they realized that they were near when, in one way or another, they would find themselves, either by means of a change of power or by means of a sound appeal court, at will where their place was, not in prison. In this regard, pressure and repression increased. So there's a case of tuberculosis, a person now has an open form of tuberculosis and treatment, and it's only been given after a few dozen of my references to the right organs and organs. Ten of the prisoners are now in need of surgery, and ten of the fifteen prisoners are in need of immediate immediate intervention. And that's all in the background of talking about how we need to increase the social adaptation of people who have been punished and things like that. What can we do about the health of those who are there only out of political will? There are no criminal reasons for this. And I'd like to stop here, of course, for one more detail. Now in Lviv, there is a discussion between me and the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I'm willing to continue it publicly, and that's what I'm saying. And for a few seconds, I'd like to tell my colleague Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u171	Chubarov's reaction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u172	Thank you. I strongly reject the openly lying statements made by the deputy who just made the statement, I do not call the last name, because I want to say that none of the Crimean Tatars have called for the support of war as such as the form of a solution to this problem. There's no such thing. But when there are discussions, including in the Crimean Tatar environment, there is no possibility of anyone trying to bring any religious factor into this. And we're saying that Hussein's political regime has destroyed millions of Muslim lives. It was in Kuwait, and it was also in Iran in Islamic. And the last. I also want to use my right to speak from this rostrum in my own language. The deputy spoke, not in her own language, but in the language of one of the national minorities, Russian. So let me put it this way: Dedelermizde bule sezesler var: Kopekiz ki olmaz! The dussmanlarinosis of japishsannis is about the copackerge of osarsynosis. Bution kbayatlar commiestler! Who's an ana-ballarimist oldurs? He's the Lord of the Fire of Alinesis! Saga Olunez!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u173	Can I speak Ukrainian? [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, right. Please, Stepan Ilkovich Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u174	Honorable national deputies who have the patience to be in this room! And today, and every time in the "Variance," and in the question of MPs, we see what avalanche of problems in the country, and it's not shrinking, it's increasing. Today, more than ever, Ukraine faces a threat of loss of statehood, a threat to national interests and finally the existence of a Ukrainian nation. And we need to give an exact diagnosis of why. The reason for the current regime under the patronage of today's President Kuchma. And we must speak honestly and truthfully to the people, and this must be said by all these politicians concerned about the fate of Ukraine. What do you want to do? What is the way out of this catastrophic situation? The change of power may not be due to the proposed first - century reforms of the political system proposed by Kuchma. The reform must take place primarily because of the resignation of today's President Kuchma, who has usurped power, who is trying not to exercise his constitutional powers to protect the rights and freedoms of our citizens -- to protect Ukraine's national interests. The way to do this must be through the mass will of the Ukrainian people, to which all political leaders should be called, who must consolidate their efforts to achieve this very goal. Only the early removals of President Kuchma from his office will open the way for the people by willing to form power. Without that, there's never any choice as much as you're talking about 2, about the only candidate, about 10 -- it doesn't matter. Ladies and gentlemen! If Kuchma stays until the election in her presidential chair, I guarantee you there will be no elections. It'll be a farce. No one will even count the votes. They're going to write protocols, and they're going to pin down their successor, or they're going to leave Kuchma alone. So I'm talking to the leaders and the voters again, and you're pushing the leaders through political parties, through grassroots organizations. To finally put them together so that they can call on the people to make public statements by those who give them the Constitution to finally open the way to real reforms in Ukraine, to real government, to democracy in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u175	Is there a Mikola Odanik? Please. Next thing we know, we've got a list of Sokirko. Is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, the people of Ukraine! Good day to you all! I was approached by war veterans and laborers who asked for their address, in which they addressed the President, the Government, the Supreme Council. With your permission, I'll read it in the original language: "Please tell us what we, veterans of war and labor, have blamed before our state, before you, before Ukraine? We have done our duty with dignity and honor. They protected not only our nation but all of Europe, and then raised our nation from the ruins and ashes. Because thanks to us living through the flames of war and to the millions of better sons and daughters who gave up our lives, we have gained independence. The kind of independence you're proud of today. Why, then, did the one who did everything for the glory of our Ukraine become a world beggar today? When we meet, we ask a friend a second question: What were we fighting for, why we shed blood, what we worked for during the day? We do not deserve a better life, and all we have to do is wait for the charity. So we're old, we're 70 or 80 years old, but your grandparents, your parents, why you dumped us. Instead of kneeling and apologizing, you put us on our knees to ask for alms. Instead of creating a proper life for all, you take care of yourself. We know that nothing will help us, but we demand and ask that you return to us the savings we have invested, which we later earned with blood. Give us the right conditions of life by comparing our pensions to a civil servant, because we have 40 to 50 years of hard work. Give us back our free medicine and free treatment, give us back our Ukraine, this is our Fatherland, this is the Motherland of the proud Ukrainian, not the beggar. Here we have to live and live and work for our grandchildren and grandchildren." Under this call, war veterans and the work of the Mohilites, the region of Delhi, signed. I am convinced that millions of our veterans of war and work would be signed under this appeal. Therefore, I appeal to the officials of all levels, let us keep in mind my past. He does not remember the past; he does not have a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u177	Please, Mikola Sokirko. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u178	The Solidarity Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, we recently participated in parliamentary hearings about the progress of reforming measures to improve the situation in the country. But in 2002, the rate of growth in agricultural production and production slowed down. More than 40 percent of agricultural and processing enterprises are damaged. The receivables of the economy are even about 3 billion dollars, and the creditors are about 5 billion dollars. The real income of peasants does not increase. The average monthly agricultural wage is the lowest in other sectors of the country’s economy. The material base of the village’s social sphere has ceased to be updated. Despite a 60 - percent increase in grain production in the last two years, its yield as of last year was as high as in the year 2000. As a result, the profitability of grain production has dropped nearly threefold. The final price collapse on animal production has led the sector to the brink of damage. Agroforming has been cut out of the already rare uterine head, as it were, at two more paces in the past year? As an example, I want to say that recently I had to go to a meeting with the voters of my district in the Chichélic district of the village of Red Grebly. And that's where I saw the terrible picture of life in the country today, because it's hard to imagine and it's hard to put together what has 1800 hectares of land just 8 hectares of vibrane. And no hectares were sown in winter. This is the result of our reforms in agriculture. And another resonant negative is price distortion. If the total price index for agricultural production was 87 last year, it was for material and technical resources for the village 101. Didn't they teach anything in the '90s or '99s when this ratio was one to six in favour of industry? And in this way, 57 billion were washed out of the village. The sum of the circulation costs. Understandably, the recent hearings were a decision - making process, but all of this makes one wonder what conclusions should be made immediately. And those steps that the Cabinet of Ministers took literally a few days ago about helping the village 30 million. That's right. It's only about what it is. Perhaps the first concessions of what should be done to the village today. But 2000 was another outflow for the agrarian sector for a long jump without a parachute, especially since the negative on income for advanced contributions caused the flight of capital to other more attractive industries. And so on. I would also like to point out that the decline in production has led to the adequate state and social infrastructure of the village, which primarily caused the outflow of the rural population. And migration processes are developing not only in the village-town scheme, but also in the village-country abroad. At that time, there was actually no funding at the expense of capital. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I want to confirm what you said at the parliamentary hearings about where the geniuses come from if the village doesn't give birth to children? And geniuses are really born in a village, and they really die in the capital. So I want these geniuses to get a lot of attention today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u179	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u180	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. John Stoyko, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear fellow MPs, distinguished voters. I want to make public today the address of the fourth session of the Beechka District Council of Ternopil district to me as the representative of the 166th constituency in the Supreme Council. There are 65,000 people, or 20,000 families, living in the Bouchachsk region. Ten industrial enterprises work, counting more than thirty agricultural enterprises, registered to about a thousand entrepreneurs. In recent years, especially in 2002, the economic and social development programme for industrial, agricultural and income production is being revised. Of the 35,000 workers, only 15,000 are employed. Four thousand registered in the employment center as unemployed, while another 15,000 or half of the county’s working population rents out foreign lands. Nearly eight thousand families, 40 percent of whom are underfunded, stand in line to receive assistance from a social worker in the bank’s employment center. 18,000 people, or 28 percent of the total population of the region, are pensioners with an average monthly pension of 109, 15 times lower than in neighbouring Poland. As mentioned earlier, last year, agricultural production was much overrun. Yet, as a result of price fraud, manufacturers lost more than four million dollars of income. As a result, the vast majority of private-agrarian enterprises have completed the agricultural year with losses, taxes, wages, non-procedural costs in 2003. More than six thousand court decisions have been made in the district’s executive department, including wages that are not implemented. In fact, the potential of metalworking, transportation, construction, and other organizations has been destroyed. A sector such as tobacco has been eliminated, and because of the breach of contractual obligations with the owners of the sugar plant in front of the peasants for selling sugar for the raw materials supplied, there is a real threat of a sharp reduction in sugar beet crops and conservation, despoiled by the destruction of the Bouché sugar plant, with all the negative consequences. Government documents that have been adopted during the past year have deprived families of material assistance, who use more than 60 hundred plots of land. Here I would like to stress in person that in this Butchi district, on average, people have not 60, but more than one and a half hectares of land. So I think the government's decision on this issue needs to be reviewed. In view of the numerous appeals made by voters not only in the Bouchén region but also in other parts of my district. The increase in drug prices has dramatically reduced the supply of drugs to even the general population, the Chernobyl population, and the disabled. They are not budgeted, they lose the positive trends in economic development and the higher living standards of the population acquired two years ago during the work of the government of Viktor Yashchenk. Only the organized and purposeful actions of the entire nation, the patriotic forces in Parliament and the government will be able to bring the country out of this crisis, not allowing for the eventual destruction. And may the Lord help us. So, in my opinion, respectable fellow MPs, one or the other, not only in the Beechchik region of Ternopilland, but also in all regions of Ukraine. Therefore, please consider my speech as an official address to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, to the Prosecutor General, requiring decisive steps to be taken to bring order in the state, in particular in the Bouchny region, to do everything to halt the loss of the positive gains that have been achieved by the Government of Yushchenk Viktor Andryovich. And one more thing, because the socialists and the communists accused Victor Yushchenk and "Our Ukraine" of turning away from the village. I would like to point out that it was during Victor Yushchenka's leadership that the village was relieved. And, dear communists, you say we are the so-called opponents of "Our Ukraine," no, we are the opposition, but the opposition to today's power, unlike you, not to the Ukrainian state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u181	Anatoly Orzhachowski, please, next to Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u182	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Head, national deputies. My exit to the parliamentary rostrum is due to the existence of a number of socio-economic problems in the Herson region. During his last mission to the area, three areas were visited, such as Velikoleptski, where he was able to communicate with the assets of the self - government authorities of the executive branch, and he received a number of references at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. One relates to the wreckage of a pedestrian bridge in the village of Velika Lepeticha, which was built in 1955. Sadly, I did not even have to respond to the local village council’s appeal, as a disaster occurred on April 2, at 11 o’clock in the year’s 11 o’clock, 30 minutes in the area. By the ice of the Kakhov Reservoir in front of the inhabitants, the pedestrian bridge was completely destroyed through the bay, which connected two almost equal to the area and the number of inhabitants, part of the village. There are 10,000 people living in the village, the area of which is 10 square miles [10 sq km]. A new call from the local council indicates that it was the only pedestrian artery that connected residents, families, families, and even more tragic to reach the hospital in the southern part of the hospital, the hospital itself located in the north of the city will be able only to use an earth dam located 8-11 kilometers [8-11 km] from the wrecked bridge. Worse still, almost half of the village's population, the elderly, they most need the help of doctors, and it's historically happened when residents of one part of the village work in another part. In connection with the destruction of the bridge, a telephone connection has been interrupted, namely, the work of ambulances, fire stations, internal affairs, and so forth. The length of the bridge is 140 meters, six meters wide. In order to raise flooded metal structures and build new ones, according to expert estimates, it takes about 1 million dollars, a village budget of 500,000 dollars in 2003 that clearly does not allow for the construction and financing of named jobs. On the basis of the foregoing, I want to say that there is now a district commission in the village looking for ways to help people. However, without the support of the Government of Ukraine, the problem cannot be solved. So I am asking the Prime Minister of Ukraine for urgent financial assistance to the self-governance body, who is still left alone with a natural disaster. However, I ask officials not to cover up the absence of funds, or the regionality of the problem, as you often do by responding to parliamentary requests or appeals and by translating the problems of the centre into district councils and adjuvants. This could not have happened if it had been timely to respond to those interventions in this government Hall on Government Day, during parliamentary hearings on the situation in the Hersonian area on submerged issues. But it happened that even when the draft decision on submergment was voted in the hall, the Hersonians even took their seats, even though the scientists gave the proper assessment, and we had to speak to the representatives. I don't understand why that is. So I would ask for another appeal to the government. This is where we are in the Hersonian region, so please, our government is asking 20 million dollars to search for something like this so that it doesn't happen in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u183	Ivan Sidorovich Boki. Next Heidash.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u184	Dear colleagues who will remain in the hall! Dear voters! There was one accusation here from the mouth of the representative of "Our Ukraine," that some political forces were opposed to the Ukrainian state. So here's what I'm going to say. The socialist party by definition is a state power, and the fact that it is a left-wing party is the legal right of every human being, every political force to be determined in this regard. The Socialists have never been in opposition to the state, they're opposed to power, to the regime of today's particular state. And I was asked to confirm this state's position also by the Communist MPs. And then what I'm going to say is that it confirms the state's position of our party and our faction of socialists. As you well know, our faction has taken the initiative to implement President Leonid Kuchma's decree, which he has forgotten, to issue a full Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk's meeting in full volume and mass circulation. So far, and today I want to say that even though we have put a separate line into the government budget on the allocation of 5.6 million for this edition, so far there has not been a single single penny for that. Some kind of document is required. These documents are presented. But six volumes are ready today, you can print them, they're loaded, they've been through all the editorial preparation. All that's left is to fund the issue. And to that end, our Humanitarian Block of the Cabinet of Ministers finds no funds, and the Ministry of Finance, and the Prime Minister, who personally promised me that he would take control. You know, we're all in control. And the President has promised you that you too understand, and the decree has been issued, but Taras Shevchenko turns out no one needs him today. Here's the problem. And most of all, Ukraine needs it. Clearly, the authority of this regime does not need it. But Taras Shevchenko is eternal. All the heaps, the Yanks, the sidekicks, the straws -- we're all people, they say, mortals and we're passersby. Shevchenko is not a passing piece of history. And Shevchenka needs the people of Ukraine to know everything because this is his highest word, the highest achievement of his genius. Keep going. I'd like to use what I have for 20 seconds, I'd like to say this. We were, as you know, initiating the deployment of a battalion to Kuwait under the command of a reserve captain, the commander-in-chief of Leonid Kuchma. Unfortunately, this project did not pass. But now we know that huge funds will be allocated directly from Ukraine’s budget to finance this battalion. I have an offer like this. To correct our budget, determine what this project is. Let the financing of the battalion be taken into account by the President of Ukraine and those deputies who voted in favour of this adventure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u185	Istvan Geidosh, please. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u186	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich! Dear National Deputies! Last week, an unprecedented event in the Zakartat region was declared illegal by the Uzhgrad City Court, and the exit was effectively suspended. an independent news week magazine. This decision calls into question the constitutional right to freedom of speech and press. A formal reason for the court’s decision was the application made by a private person. Lotts, on the other hand, have all the facts that have come to bear witness to the fact that there is an open political order behind this truly scandalous matter. The parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine is paying particular attention to the situation around the weekly News Week of the Freedom of Word and Information Committee, particularly its head, who at least on the round tables says that he is responsible for the state of affairs in the field of the media. [[united]] There is no doubt that the weekly suffered precisely because of impartiality, openness and the true reporting of information, it has not once published specific facts and documentary material on the abuse of office and other violations of legislation by the former head of the Zacarpathian Authority, and now by the Ukrainian National Deputy, Head of the Regional Electoral Headquarters of the Block of "Our Ukraine" Victor Baloja. A series of applications initiated by Victor Balogo and the directors of his respective commercial structures, before the News Week newspaper, have been reviewed by the judicial authorities for some time and have actually had no effect. That's why there's a reasonable assumption that in order to put an end to the world of the emerging newspaper, a regular lawsuit of a foreign natural person has been formally used, and that a mediocre confirmation of what was said among others may be the response to this event of the tormentor's weekly "Old Castle", the founders and investors of which are the commercial structures of the close relatives of Baloga. On the first page of number 23-24 of March 20 this year, the titled edition reports that the News Weeks have been closed by a court for publication against the ex-governor and the acting national deputy of Ukraine Victor Baloga. The MP's faction of SDPU (o) still expects the head of the committee on freedom of speech and information, invites him to consider the situation in an open manner around the news week district newspaper on the committee and give it a proper assessment. And with the engagement of my parliamentary colleagues, I am informing you that the parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine "United" reserves the right to make appropriate requests to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine and other institutions regarding the verification of the legality and objectivity of the decision of the U.S. City Court to close the newspaper News Week. We are deeply convinced that in a democratic society we will not allow any violation of constitutional rights to freedom of speech. What's more, it's political. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-04-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. The plenary session begins at 10 a.m. on April 8. On the day of the government of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers will be briefed on the state and prospects of the city’s depressed regions, the villages of Ukraine. Good luck!
