ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system, please. Please register. [[16:05:21]] Registered -415 There were 415 national deputies registered, and the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declared open. Dear colleagues, we agreed to vote on the questions. Is there any objection? Then I'll say, I asked a lot of, uh, respectable colleagues. A request was received from Ukrainian National Deputies Grigory Manchulenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the funding of the information programme for the general educational institutions for the computerization of rural schools for 2001-2003, after the Tisman Electoral District, number 203 of the Czernovets region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[16:06:37]] For-188. For - 188, the decision is made. Gregory of Manchulenka to Prime Minister Janukovič of Ukraine Viktor Fedorovich for the maintenance of the Fedkovic museum in the village of the town-type Putovli of the Cherniewice region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[16:07:07]] For 175 For -175. Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a question of not meeting the requirements of part two of article 16 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[16:07:36]] For 134 Z-134. Decision taken. Paul Matvienka to the minister of Ukraine for the extraordinary situation and for the protection of the population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster of spending on construction of housing for citizens of the city of Korsten of the Žitomir region who suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[16:08:09]] For-166 For - 166. Decision taken. Georgia Kruczkova to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Zlenko Anatolia Maksimovich, on the attitude of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to the statements of the Secretary-General of NATO to support the possible U.S. military action against Iraq. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[16:08:41]] For 134 To - 134. Decision taken. Paul Matvienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for the completion of construction in the city of Korstoń of the Žitomir region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[16:09:08]] For a hundred and For -145, the decision is made. Vladimir Yavorowski to U.S. Attorney General Piscohn Svetoslav Mikhailovich on the investigation of the death of an outstanding Ukrainian poet, winner of the National Prize for the Names of Taras Shevchenk Leonid Viseslavski. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[16:09:41]] For-163 For -163, the decision is made. National Deputy Oneichuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on illegal and unjustified increases in housing and utility tariffs in Odessa. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[16:10:07]] For-170. For 170. Decision taken. Onischuk's National Deputy to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the violation of the right to receive a pensioner's share of land during the restructuring of the "True" College of the Mikolai district of Odessa. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[16:10:35]] For 172 Again, the request of Oneichuk, but to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for human rights, to take steps to remove violations of constitutional human rights by the employees of the U.S.S.A. and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine during the arrest and conduct of operational and search activities in the Odessa and Mikolai oblasts. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[16:11:09]] For 175 In 175, the decision is made. Onishuk’s national deputy to the Head of the State Committee on Information Policy, Television, Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine on the clarification of Ukrainian legislation on printed media. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[16:11:40]] Z-132 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of the Company's Paradise, a sub-department of the Kirovograd district by sanitation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[16:12:06]] For 122 Decision taken. Julius Timoshenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the liquidation of the debt from salary payments to employees of the repair and mechanics office of the state special enterprise Complex of Chernobyl. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[16:12:37]] For-137 Decision taken. Mikhail Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the failure to pay subsidies to farmers for the large cattle of high - weight conditioned animals in 2002. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[16:13:05]] For-162 Decision taken. Victor Yushchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of debt from State aid to families with children and low-income families in 2002. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[16:13:37]] For 190 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee for the decision of the Odessa City Council to increase tariffs on municipal services to the population. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[16:14:05]] For 158. For - 158, the decision is made. Jury Solomatina to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of officials of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Minagrompolitics of Ukraine and the Kyiv District Public Administration in the privatization of the Polish National Tribal and Birds Factory. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[16:14:40]] For-142 For -142, the decision is made. Paul Mouchcana to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of landowners and property in the village of Sagidak Shisak district of Poltava. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[16:15:07.]] For the 120th. For - 120, the decision is made. Gregory Omelchenka is with the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of the Interior of Ukraine for the verification of the statement by the President of Ukraine on the disappearance of nuclear fuel for Ukrainian nuclear power stations totalling $3 billion and the prosecution of those responsible. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[16:15:43]] For-136 For - 136, the decision is made. Mikhail Melniczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of legislation in the stockholders' company Cherniewskie Glehocombinate. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[16:16:09]] For-136 For - 136, the decision is made. Gregory Omelchenka - to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of the Interior of Ukraine, on the investigation of a criminal case involving the falsification and use by the Ukrainian national deputy Mirimsky Lev Juliusovich of a well-defiled diploma on higher education and verification of conditions in which he was granted citizenship by the State of Israel. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[16:16:46]] For 158. For - 158, the decision is made. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of legislation in the activities of prosecutors and police of the Boguslav district of Kyiv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[16:17:12]] For the 110. For - 110, the decision is made. Mikhail Melniczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of tax collection on the added value of electricity and electrical services. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[16:17:41]] For-151 For -151, the decision is made. Gregory Omelchenka to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the legality of the decision of the Supreme Court of Ukraine to dismiss the rulings of the Kyiv Vasilka Court of Appeal against the President of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[16:18:12]] For-141 For -141, the decision is made. Mikoli Tomenka to the head of the National Court of Auditors on sources of funding for the production of Leonid Kuchma’s New Year’s card and its delivery to each family. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[16:18:39]] For-163 Decision taken. Vladimir Leschchenka to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for responding to the illegal activity of the former head of the train depot of the Cors. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[16:19:07]] For-146 Decision taken. Jurija Kostenko to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine on the conformity of the current legislation of individual regulations The procedure for the processing of transport documents and the calculation of the volume of transport of dangerous goods by Ukrainian railways, approved by the Minister of Transport of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[16:19:41]] For 112 Decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Ministry of Education of Ukraine for the efforts of officials of the Alushtin Education Authority to discredit and destroy the only Ukrainian college in Alushta. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[16:20:11]] For-126 Decision taken. Peter Simonenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the persecution in the Odessa area of participants in the action "Resurrender, Ukraine!".. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[16:20:37]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Mikoli Kravchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reform of the coal industry by the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[16:21:01]] For 135 For - 135, the decision is made. Thank you, requests have been put to the vote. Dear colleagues, I'm bringing to your attention a draft law on Ukrainian seaports. Reporter Yuri Borisovich Kruk, please. Yuri Borisovich, five minutes to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, you are invited to take note of the draft law on Ukrainian seaports. The modern seaport is not only a transshipment point of cargo from land to water and vice versa, but also a link between maritime and other modes of transport. The modern port is a hub of economic and legal ties and contradictions between all modes of transport and, in particular, their clients. The legal basis for regulating the activities of Ukrainian seaports is the Constitution, the Code of Merchandise Navigation, State Border Laws, Foreign Economic Activities, Transport, a number of other laws and regulations, as well as existing international instruments ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, there is no legal instrument that regulates relations in this area in a comprehensive manner. Seaports are currently operated primarily by acts of the former U.S.S.S.S.R. Marine Fleet Ministry, which are outdated and do not meet the new economic conditions. In order to give legal effect to the legal economic foundations of the activities of ports that have taken a new form in the context of Ukraine's economic reforms, the draft bill has been drafted. The draft consists of eight sections and 39 articles. All the provisions of the bill are aimed at improving the regulatory framework for the operation and effectiveness of seaports. The most important provisions of the law can be described as follows. Article 3 of the Act provides that a change in the form of State port ownership may only be effected under a separate law. Thus, with the adoption of the bill, no State port would become public, private or rentable without the adoption of a separate law. The project sets out the framework for regulating port activities located in Ukrainian areas of the international transport corridor system, financing arrangements, investment in reconstruction and modernization of the existing infrastructure of those ports, in accordance with international requirements. The draft article 8 sets out the arrangements for the management and operation of relations with port operators located in the port. Article 18 of the draft defines port charges as targeted fees which cannot be exempted by decision of the executive authorities, because they are not public taxes but are fees for services. Part 3 of Article 3 also provides for the registration of ports that provide port services in the relevant registry. The procedure for maintaining the register shall be established by the central authority of the Executive on transport matters. The establishment of a register will streamline the establishment of enterprises that provide port services and are entrusted with maritime safety functions. Turning to article 1 of the bill, it should be noted that it establishes a new definition and concept of the seaport, its types, goods, luggage, mail, carrier, sender, recipient, cargo owner, port operator and others. Dear colleagues, hundreds of comments and proposals were submitted to the first draft of the draft law. Fully or partially more than 80 per cent are accounted for. More than half of the proposals were drafting, but there were also very significant comments that were taken into account in the proposed draft. The last, third draft of the bill is under consideration. I would therefore like to thank the people's deputies who participated actively in the finalization of the project, Kruglov Nikolai Petrović, Klimpus Oresta Dmitryevich, Kuharczuk Nikolai Petrovic and many others. In addition to the proposals of the people's deputies, the Ministry of Transport, the Association of Ports of Ukraine, the Association of Maritime Agencies of Ukraine, the State Committee for the Protection of the State Border, the Central Council of Trade Unions of Maritime Transport Workers and others made proposals. The draft law did not take into account proposals that were resolved by other existing regulations and incorporated them into the law would lead to the adoption of proposals. The implementation of the law is not related to the implementation of additional material and other costs. The findings of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine indicate that the draft Law “On Ukrainian Seaports” can be based on comments made. The bill is also supported by the High Council Profile Committee. The comments and proposals of the actors of the law of the legislative initiative leading to the improvement of the draft Law on Maritime Ports of Ukraine will be taken into account in its finalization for submission to the Supreme Council on second reading. In voting on this issue, I would like to support the adoption of a draft decree by the Supreme Council on the adoption of the draft Law on Ukrainian Seaports. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the reporter? Please sign up. Yes, light up on the board, please. Eugene Kirilchuk, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u4	Please give the floor to Deputy Zubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u5	Please, Teeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u6	Thank you very much, Evgeny Ivanovich. Your Honor, I have a question. Please tell me that you can present today figures that show the level of business of port profitability and so on, so that we can continue to speak on the bill. As a result of my question. Today, in Donetsk region, the port of Mariupol offered to rent a ten-year statutory capital firm of 19.5,000 bracelets. To take a port that generates more than $19.5 million in net profits as a result of its business activities. Isn't your bill a continuation of this very interesting but open anti-national line?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u7	A very good question, and I will tell you, once the speeding up of this bill answers practically your question, that no port in Ukraine today can be private, cannot be leased - what is done in the port of Mariupol - and this is really not a public approach. Speaking of the numbers you're talking about, we got numbers in the seaports. I just didn't get it, I didn't know it might have come up, but in any case, if the port of Mariugal 19 million came, for example, at the port of Odessa last year, this profit was about 200 million bracelets. The port of Ilicev is not much different -- about, I think, 120-150 million has arrived. There will be more port managers, they can say more precisely about these indicators because they own them and, in principle, this bill is intended to ensure that our ports in Ukraine -- all 19 seaports -- are not privatized and should only be state-owned as strategic sites. This is therefore the main task of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u8	National deputy Światash, Democratic Initiative Group, please. Kalinczuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u9	Thank you. Odessa, Kalinchuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Honourable Yuri Borisovich is certainly required to do so because the bill establishes the law on seaports in the principle of ensuring their independence and equality of their rights and responsibilities in carrying out economic activities with the authorities of the State executive, local self-government, and other businesses. As a result, I have two questions. First. The seaports, I understand from your report, remain state property. What is the role of the State in managing ports? That's the first question. And the second. What did the Ministry of Transport conclude on this bill, if any? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u10	Thank you. The first question, the role of public administration, remains practically the same as it is today. So today the ports are public and despite the use that one of the speakers today, the Zubov MP, has raised concerns about the subsequent privatization of the lease, and then the privatization of the ports, is very relevant today. Therefore, the State administration of ports by Mintrans remains the same as it is. The opinion of Mintrans on this port is that we have an initial opinion that this law is necessary, Mintrans is absolutely in agreement with us. But to the extent that it's relevant, let's say, or a particular question, or a supplement to the Code of Merchandise, there were a few opinions here that are said to be. But the Code of Merchandise Navigation is a document that unfortunately reflects the relationship between the shipowner and the port. Today, after the formation of an autonomous Power, the port has relations with many private relationships, with many private businesses with many clients, and therefore today more than a thousand different complaints, court proceedings are controversial, where these decisions are not reflected in the Code of Merchandise cannot be reflected, and therefore a separate law is required. And I'll tell you more about what, for example, we have the Transport Act, there's the Rail Transport Act, there's the Transport Act, there's the Road Transport Act, so there's the Transport Act, there's the Merchandise Shipping Code and there's gotta be a Port Act. I spoke to the Minister of Transport twice, and he in principle supports this view and supports this law. There are comments that we will take into account on second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u11	Sergei Alexiyuk, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u12	Sergei Alexiyuk, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Movement. Dear reporter, if you were to report this issue in Ukrainian, Ukrainian ports would have twice as much revenue as Russian, but the economic question is part of what I want to say to economist Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u13	Vladimir Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u14	Thank you. Dear Yuri Borisovich, how does the bill regulate the profit of the port and its distribution, the cost of ports and the cost of their activities? And the second question. What is the point of the conflict between the Odessa port and the Ministry of Transport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u15	Well, speaking of port activities and distribution of profits, it basically remains the same as it is, so we have not duplicated the existing legislation that exists. So, let's say the port of Odessa made 120 million returns last year, he put into the budget what was laid down under the existing legislation. The same remains in this bill, i.e. it does not change. The conflict you're talking about, I don't think there's any conflict. There are a number of issues that have been identified by the Ministry's normative documents. Then there was a conversation with the Minister, a number of provisions had been resolved, i.e. the positions of the law where there had been derogations or violations of the law had been abolished, so he agreed that the derogations had been removed. This is where the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Transport Abdulayev Elbrus Farmanović is located. I think he can answer that question, too. To say that there's a conflict, we don't have that conflict. That's why he's up to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u16	National Deputy Orzhachowski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u17	Dear Yuri Borisovich! Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. There's a famous port in Hersonschi, the port of Skadowski, its unit of the Harlow port. I have a question like this for you. Today, this port is not working in the production plan. How do you think it'll give your bill to Harlov's portoport in order to develop its population and employment? And please pass the word to the national deputy Nosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u18	People's MP Nosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u19	Dear Yuri Borisovich! Please tell me in article 18 of the draft law "Port congregations" that these congregations will be used exclusively by the port to cover the corresponding costs of keeping the port safe and to park vessels. It's been deciphered. But along with this, chapter three of "My Port" states that the source of port property formation is port assembly. Will this difference lead to a purposeless use of funds? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u20	Thank you for the questions. Concern at the Herson port of Skadowsk will bring back the port of Skadowsk, which is an independent Harlov port, frankly, I find it difficult to say, because the port of Skadov is largely small and the port is small at all. But there are still people there, and, I think with the arrival today, it would seem as if the port manager, who was a national deputy, Ivan Ivanovich, who was reportedly released and is now reinstated by the court. I think he's very receptive to these issues. And I think he's going to pay attention to this portal in the light of our requests. And the second question is, the one that was at the port charges, I have to tell you, the port charges are not tax. We had a dispute here, there were even suggestions that they might be removed from the public budget and then put to use one or the other. Port charges are services, that is, if we say that this is a tax, then all foreign courts that come to us will immediately be exempt from this tax, because double taxation cannot be. Exactly like how our tax-free fleet got there. So, speaking of purposeless use, I realized that what you said about purposeless use, it can't be, because this money is only used for the purposes that are indicated, that is, deep-seated work, only deep-seated. If it's hydrotechnical, only hydrotechnical, only questions related to the safety of the port's parking and fleet. Therefore, for the purposeless use of these funds, they have been checked on a number of occasions, because these issues have arisen, all ports have been subject to these checks. There have been no violations of the use of port charges. There's only one question, I can talk about it for a long time, but besides what's working, all I can say right now is that port charges are being used with certainty today. And they just accumulate sometimes for two or three years, and then they're done. That's why they get a lot of money sometimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u21	Thank you, Yuri Borisovich, time is up. Thank you. For my co - report, I invite a member of the Committee on Construction, Transportation, and Communications, Mikola Petrovich Kruglov. Mikola Petrovich, please. It's very short, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u22	I would like to draw your attention to a few important points that explain, indeed, the problems that the draft bill seeks to solve. First, according to the existing Code of Merchandise Shipping, the seaport is a state-owned transport company with a specific territory, aquatoria and infrastructure: as a legal person, it conducts entrepreneurial activities and, at the same time, is responsible for the security of the port or port control of the port’s national port manager’s national representative functions and powers, collecting mandatory port congregations responsible for the safety of navigation, issuing mandatory regulations, etc. This combination of port functions and monopolies may have been in one monopoly state property. Under the current Ukrainian legislation governing property, entrepreneurship, land relations, self-governance and so on, an enterprise today has the right to take any form of ownership of an organization or legal form into ownership or lease of a land area, including a water-covered area, to process cargo, to create appropriate infrastructure and to obtain permission from the State authorities to create a point of passage of cargo across the border. In line with this legislation, terminals for the processing of grain, metal, fuel oil and other cargoes have been created in the existing ship repair and shipbuilding facilities of various forms of property and other enterprises, free areas of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Herson, Mikolaiivsk, Odessa region. Investors, including foreign, have built the necessary infrastructure. In accordance with the laws, local authorities have allocated land and water, and the Cabinet of Ukraine has opened the crossing points on these terminals. National representative functions under the Code of Merchandise Navigation are carried out by the captains of existing national ports in these areas. State ports are actively renting, sharing with investors, and so forth. Even state-owned enterprises that provide Lotzman services have been created, and they are not subordinated to port captains, as is required by the Code of Merchandise Shipping. So de jure and de facto life and other laws of Ukraine have already been "adjusted" or begun to amend the code of merchant shipping. [[in quotes]] Secondly, the Supreme Council, on second reading, adopted the concept of harmonization with European legislation, and according to existing legislation, the seaport is an area with an appropriate water supply and infrastructure, where many commercial structures are engaged in entrepreneurial activities. State functions and the safety of shipping are carried out by port administrations. Obviously, we've come to a point where the monopoly of existing commercial activity of ports should be violated, and when government functions, state powers should be passed on to the state, indeed. Thus went the Russian Federation, thus sending the European Society. Self-sustainment of ports, equity of ownership, active cooperation with investors, joint activity, rental of separate core assets are the main differences between the bill and the existing Code of Merchant Navigation. Not everything is clearly stated in this bill, and the committee returned it three times for further work, comments, and suggestions. By supporting it in the Supreme Council session hall, the committee considers it necessary, taking the project as a basis, working with your observations, especially in the portion of the port capitoneum, rent, state control, property ownership, and the necessary protection of Ukraine’s national security and interests. In view of the above, please support the decision of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport and Communications and adopt the proposed project of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for adoption on the basis of the draft law on Ukrainian seaports. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the co-conspirator? Please sign in. Five minutes to ask. Let's take a look at the board. People's Deputy Permanent, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u24	Please pass the word to Matthew's Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u25	Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u26	Thank you. Matvienkov, 55th District. Dear rapporteur, I have listened carefully to your report. Please say, clearly and clearly, any reform that we are introducing with regard to ports today is a change in the form of ownership. As if we didn't say we didn't talk. The Committee's attitude to the question of renting public property in ports, privatizing ports, even on special programme and changing the form of ownership in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u27	I'd like you, perhaps not to make it clear, that the state-owned seaport is today a state-owned enterprise that performs an economic function and a state-owned function. The main problem for today is the monopoly. Because the seaport, alone, has a state-owned function, as we say. From that point on, he has a monopoly on entrepreneurial activities. Although today there may be dozens, hundreds of terminals, but the function of port captainship, it is distributed exclusively as a function of the state. And as many forms of ownership as there are today, there are terminals that are not state-owned, state-owned, but the port, port-control, state-controlled, only the port captain. But what is the problem? That he's part of it. So the government function is part of a commercial government function. There are contradictions here today. So Russia went a very different way. She went on her way to separate the port administration as a government agency did, and the entrepreneurial activity does everything she wants. I said. The Committee’s attitude is in the draft Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u28	Sergei Alexiyuk, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u29	I give the word to Rephat Chebarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u30	Please, Rafat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u31	Thank you. An honourable reporter, today’s realities are that there are ports in Ukraine whose activities or activities are not controlled at all by the national structures of Ukraine. I'm not just talking about economic activity, I'm talking about military activity. I mean Sevastopol. Please tell me. Sevastopol. Adoption of your law. Are these matters regulated by the long - term rental of other military, or foreign, seaports of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u32	The bill states that in general and this is also my personal opinion that the entire property complex of the port as such cannot be, because, first of all, a government function cannot be leased. We've already had a problem when, let me tell you, in the case of the Mikolaiowi Agricultural Plant, when it was privatizing, there was a question there. The seaport and we then made a clear and prior call to the Supreme Council they also asked the question that the state function could not be privatized. The port captain can't be privatized. It's just a government function. And that's what holds the control and the monopoly of the state over the ports.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u33	No, it's not. But we are talking about what has happened to us today? The enterprise today, according to the Enterprise Act, any enterprise can handle cargo processing: both state and non-state. And the surveillance, the vessel's entry, and so on, is the function of the government's port captains. So we're saying to bring our Ukrainian legislation to European and so on, we say, we have to allow the processing of goods by any form of ownership. But to preserve state control, this state function, otherwise Ukraine, as we say. Yeah, that's right. Peter I "cut the windows," through the ports we can close them.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u34	Thank you. Mikhailo Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u35	Thank you. Mikola Petrovich, I wanted to point out that no one has noticed, in article 21, whether you have seen such a shadow economy, gray imports, smuggling, because ports are allowed to process cargo without documents. What do you want to take without the papers?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u36	You can't load any items without documents in general. Because, first of all, there are, we say, customs, border guards, and any movement of any cargo through ports today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u37	Thank you, Mikolo Petrovich, time is up. Thank you, sit down. Let's move on to the discussion. Dear colleagues! We had 15 minutes to discuss, but so many people were enrolled. So I ask you to be specific, concise. Please explain to the board the list of national deputies who have been enrolled. National MP Mironenko, Communist faction. Get ready to jump.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u38	Respectable compatriots! National Deputy of Ukraine Mironenko, 5 constituency, Crimea, Communist faction. Given the importance of the seaports for the economy of Ukraine, given also that neighbouring States are taking great care of their ports, which are competing with the ports of Ukraine, we must adopt the Law on Seaports as soon as possible. The draft Law on Seaports has already been revised several times. The continued delay in the adoption of the law is contrary to the interests of Ukraine. The bill has some shortcomings. In particular, second reading should read out article 3, paragraph 2, as follows: " No change in the form of State port ownership is permitted. Changes in the legal form of a public port are allowed by the adoption of a separate law." Seaports, unlike many enterprises, are now largely stable. But attempts have been made to disrupt this stability in the greedy interests of individual clans, individuals seeking to divert money flows, and some of these flows have been sent to their own pockets. And sometimes with incompetent interference. The latter occurred, for example, in an attempt to collect the canal fees from the ports, the means strictly necessary for the normal operation of the canals to prevent flooding accidents. And we have no doubt to take into account the dangerous attempts to rent the Theodosian port, the port of Mariupola, which, otherwise, you will not name the taxpayers as an attempt to overthrow the State. Unfortunately, the point in this story has not yet been set. This draft law aims at maintaining stability and improving the functioning of ports. Stability will contribute to the fact that the legal, economic, institutional framework for the operation of ports will be enshrined, not in fast-changing regulations, but in the law. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, you know that in China, reforms take place every year for 20 years, and the economy develops steadily, as reforms in China are carried out on the basis of clear laws. Errors in the work of officials cannot be underestimated. 39 clearly drafted articles of the law will impede the possible arbitrary treatment of officials who are causing damage to Ukraine's economy, the authority of the State of Ukraine, which has unfortunately been repeatedly demonstrated. The Act provides for investment, development, modernization of seaports, as stated in article 13, paragraph 3, which contains the following rule. The funds derived from the sale of the core funds are allocated exclusively to investment in ports. The law does not result in additional budgetary costs; on the contrary, the adoption of the law will contribute to the replenishment of public and local budgets through the stable development of ports that contribute to the growth of production in the country. The volume of processed cargo in the port will increase, production will increase, income will increase in the State budget and local budgets. The interests of Ukraine's economy, the people of Ukraine, require the adoption of the bill. I call upon the deputies of all factions, in fact, not of personal interest, but of the interests of the State, the economy of the people will support this draft law in the first reading Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u39	Stanisław Kirilovich Strobko, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u40	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The seaports play a major role in Ukraine’s economic life. This is explained by the geopolitical factor in finding Ukraine in the main transport routes: east-west and north-south, the role that our country plays in export and transit transport. Until recently, however, there has been no legal basis for port activity. This situation did not allow port ownership to be protected; there was no legal basis for the involvement of local self-government authorities in the development of port infrastructure. Moreover, it is particularly important that Ukraine’s legislative acts were not oriented towards international standards and agreements in the field of maritime transport of goods and passengers. All these shortcomings in current legislation we have been trying to take into account, in the drafting of the Ukrainian Maritime Ports Act, which you are looking at. In addition to the above-mentioned issues, the project has given the necessary attention to Ukraine’s participation in international transport corridors for ports that are part of the national network of international transport corridors, and a special legal regime has been proposed. Individual articles of the law define and regulate the activities of port operators and freight forwarders. This will, in our view, provide the right conditions for investors to participate in the development of port infrastructure. Considering that seaports are a transport complex that intersects the roadways of road, rail, river and sea transport, the draft law provides appropriate legal regulation for port relationships with other transport companies. Thus, in the drafting of the Ukrainian Maritime Ports Act, we have tried, on the one hand, to regulate the direction of activities that to date were not regulated by Ukrainian legislation, and on the other hand, to bring this legislative act as close as possible to international transport standards, taking into account Ukraine's participation in the world transport network. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention. For reference. The Ilcivian seaport, the cost of the major funds of 700 million, made 147 million profits last year.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u41	Thank you. Yes, Mikola Pavluk, please, the NDP faction. Then we delete if we don't. Please, Nemirowski, the faction of the SDPU. Oh, there is. Who said there isn't? Yeah. Mikola Pavluk, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u42	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Deputies! Seaports are the only port left of the forward, powerful maritime industry that has come to Ukraine from the former Union. Despite all the problems, ports remained as important transport hubs, survived economic chaos, adjusted or completely changed their specialization according to market realities, found their specific forms of work with partners and customers, resisted competition, not always in good faith, both on the part of foreign competitors and on the part of their Ukrainian fisheries, industrial, specialized and others. As an example of the selected system of work of the port of Odessa, which has already been mentioned here, the recommended directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on free market access to port services provided an opportunity to increase freight turnover of the port of Odessa from 15 million tonnes in 1993 to 33 and a half million tons in 2002, to obtain more than 200 million grivens of revenue, to attract to ports up to 300 million bracelets of investment, which enabled the market to be made in full technical re-armament of the port, to build new trans-shipment complexes and docks, to enter the ports not only by the CIS but also by the ports of the Black and Mediterranean basins. The draft law on Ukrainian seaports gives legal effect to the legal, economic and institutional framework for port activities, which have found new forms of transition to the market economy, the legal status of the existence of different forms of ownership, the relationship with ports and operators, and the manner in which they are located in the port territory. It is important that the proposed draft law protects not only ports and not even the transport industry of the country, but is very important in creating a healthy competitive environment for our ports. So far, the legal situation of port-based enterprises has not been resolved by law. It is in the draft law that the status of port operators will be regulated. The draft law on seaports, proposed for consideration, is as detailed as possible in line with the recommendations of the European Community Commission on free market access to port services. Its adoption will certainly raise the image of Ukrainian ports, generate additional revenue by attracting new shipments and, as a result, increase the flow of funds to Gosbuyt, will create favourable conditions for attracting foreign partners, their investment in the port structure, which will be guaranteed by the proposed Port Act. Please adopt the draft law on ports in Ukraine on first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u43	Thank you. Nemirowski Oleg Anatoliyovich. Next Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u44	Dear National Deputies, Ukraine is not simply at the crossroads of trade routes and commodity flows, it is also a great sea nation. In Ukraine there are three major areas of maritime farming - Black Sea, Asian, and Danube. Each of these features powerful port complexes — Ilikowski, Odessa, Mariupol, and others. These complexes carry out huge amounts of work, overloading millions of tons of cargo. Enough to mention this year’s quantities of grain that are overloaded through the port elevator. It should be emphasized that the activities carried out by the ports are quite specific. It accumulates an extremely complex range of relationships, including international relationships. And that is, if the overall business issues of ports are yet to be regulated by our existing legislation, the specifics of the sector are not included. To date, only a few matters of seaport activity are governed by a single decree and a Cabinet decree. Of course, this all the time breeds certain contradictions and misunderstandings that often have to be resolved in the wrong field. Therefore, the relevance and importance of the bill, I think, does not give rise to any doubt. The bill put forward for consideration is, in my opinion, very carefully and carefully worked. It contains not only a clear definition of concepts and terms, but also a mechanism for its implementation, taking into account the interests of both the state and the seaports, based on the best national and international experience. The project covers all sides of the port activity, it reflects a lot. Port management aspects. With all the details of the drafting of the bill, I think it has found the best ratio of general and partial issues. It is clear that the adoption of this law will have a positive impact on the development of transport infrastructure, the increase in freight turnover, the improvement of Ukraine's transport capacity on the world market, and will contribute to the development of a market and healthy competitive environment. The legislative definition of port rules will help to improve the quality of services, reduce costs, and increase productivity, bring clarity and determination in the relationship between all subjects. Ports are also the way out of our domestic producer in the world markets. And we are obliged to make it as favorable, comfortable, and civilized as possible. I believe that this law must be passed immediately. Therefore, I ask all deputies to support the law on seaports when voting. This will not only give us the advantage of our geographical location. But they are also effective in using them for the benefit of the State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u45	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine, to prepare Kuharchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u46	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity" Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, Honourable People of Ukraine. Let us turn you away from such a brazen, mahogany system of things. It may be necessary to change the definition of a seaport, but does it require a special law? I answer yes. What are the issues that are regulated by the Code of Merchandise, the Business Act, and I want to think about why a separate law is proposed. In my view, this interest is reflected in article 18 of the draft Law. The main question is the battle for port congregations. Ports believe that port congregations established by the State for the entrance of ships into ports should remain in them. Some public authorities, as well as some members of the people’s deputies, believe that these funds should be budgeted and spent under strict control. Let's figure out what this is about. And this is about hundreds of dollars in the United States. Today, large ports such as Odessa, South, Illyrian, and port congregations make up half the revenue of ports, small ports, and more than half. In a year, these ports receive congregations of almost 400 million dollars. What are port congregations? These are the costs that come from the west of the ship to the port. They are calculated according to the standards set by the Cabinet of Ministers depending on the volume of the ship. What's that? It's a collective effort, or it's going to be paid for the huge cost of building the ports themselves and, above all, for the property of the port Eupatoria. Ports, especially such as Odessa, Ilchis, or South Seas, are costing these costs, and they are managed by reason, I emphasize. Here they want to legitimize the vacchanal that took place today. It is only worth exploring the cost of a hotel in the seaport of Odessa, other facilities such as the water park. The water park is built at a time when people die of hunger and we raise prices here. Only by decision of the port manager. Therefore, it is worth studying and enabling the Chief of Transportation to figure out what is going on in the field. I picked up a magazine called "The Ports of Ukraine," the last issue, is the 6th edition of 2002. It says here, Minister of Transportation of Ukraine Kippa: "Odessites, for example, launched businesses into the port, distributed them docks from the waterfronts and made them owners for 49 years, gave them accounting, and there is always double accounting for entrepreneurs. They receive 50 per cent of the profits from joint activities under contractual terms. To put an end to this process, we are setting up the Ukrmorport Port Association this year. It is planned to be located in Odessa." In order not to give the opportunity and its functions to the Minister of Transport of Kirpey, this project was introduced just like that. So I asked a wider question. I'm done. I'm sorry. This is a matter of Ukrainian national security. I proposed my changes to the Security and Defence Council. I have the answer that the Security and Defence Council members are invited to discuss in particular the problem of improving the management of seaports and preventing the loss of state control over their activities. And let's ask the Kabmin to give us some information about where the money went. I think the Security Council is going to help us, and we're going to find the funds to fill the budget and save this state. And we'll also be saving ports and shipbuilding companies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u47	Mikola Kuharczuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u48	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Chef, Communist faction. As a member of the committee, it must be difficult for me to speak today because I want to express an opinion that is not entirely consistent with most of the members of our committee. To date, seaports are the only thing that's really left of the recent powerful maritime sector that has come to Ukraine from the Soviet Union. It is important that, in the midst of the collapse of maritime transport, Ukraine’s seaports were preserved as important transport nodes and maintained their profile of work, survived economic chaos, adjusted their specifics, and was discussed by the distinguished Pavluk Mikola Pantelemonovich. Then the question is: "Why the law if we have so many problems?" It should be noted that speaking of a seaport as a mere business object is deliberately demeaning the role of ports in the strategic transport structure of the state. Compared to a normal port-handling entity, it is a port crossing through the state border of Ukraine with a special regime in which there is a single mechanism for ensuring the interests of the State, the services of border guards, customs, sanitary and environmental security services. In addition, alongside freight operations that can be carried out by ordinary truckers, the port is still closely linked to Ukraine’s implementation of major international obligations in terms of state security. As far as the legal rules are concerned. The legislative principles for the organization and operation of maritime transport are set out in the Ukrainian Commercial Maritime Code, approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and published in 1995. Chapter four of this codified legislation defines the activities of seaports. The formation of maritime transport law is codified by codification and does not provide for the adoption of other legislative acts. Further improvements in legal relations in this area should be addressed by amending the Ukrainian Code of Merchant Navigation. The proposed bill on Ukrainian seaports does not stop the articles of chapter 4 of the Code of Merchandise Shipping of Ukraine and only determines the priority of its own legal rules. Such an approach is followed by the accumulation of uniform rules of regulation and the emergence of coalitions in the application of law. The following question. The proposed project does not bring significant changes to existing standards, I said, but it will only put the daily order in order to decommission and privatize seaports. It's not exactly there today, though. This approach is not in line with the basic principles of the internal policy of the State and the Basic Law of Ukraine - the Constitution, nor is it just adopted to implement its provisions of the Ukrainian law on Ukraine's Comprehensive Program of Approval of Ukraine as a Transit State in 2002-2010, which does not provide for the deployment of seaports in the near future. In addition, ports are included in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization. I should also point out -- I conclude -- that the contradictions are also contained in the draft law itself. Yes, article 1 of the project defines port status as a transport undertaking of any form of ownership that carries out its activities in its territory and in its territory. Articles 10 and 11 provide that the territory and the water supply of the port are only state property and that is a fundamental contradiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u49	Thank you. Mikhailo Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Prepare Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u50	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Hmelnicki. Dear colleagues! I want to draw attention to whether we need this law at all. The thing is, this is a very bad legal technique. These are the basic terms that are contradictory, and then there's article 3, "The Classification of Ports" will go even further. Moreover, the river ports are discarded and then inserted into the text. Next. It's all about loads, and there's no passengers, and in the end, there's no mention of passengers. I mean, it doesn't cover all the problems and legal relationships that arise. But most interestingly, we know that the problem of privatization is solved by a separate law. Every year we accept a list of objects that we allow to privatize. And this law already says in article 3, paragraph 2, listen carefully! In the form of ownership, ports are divided, that is, into public, municipal, and private. And we know that this is going to be the end of the line, and it's going to be written "to bring all the other laws into line with that." And we automatically introduced private ports. Moreover, there are many points that legitimize shadow activity or shadow economy in ports. For example, the very interesting article "Freeport" is a free economic zone, written "adopted by a special separate law" is normal. But right now, the rules that have to be included in that law, the most interesting standards, listen! All business subjects of the Free Port are subject to a system of State guarantees for the protection of investment and the right to export income and capital invested in a free port outside the free port of Ukraine. So it's a scheme to escape capital. Moreover, the port included in the national network of international transport corridors automatically receives free port status. You see, you don't need a separate law. I'm not going to count the other contradictions here, I'm just going to point to one more interesting one. Even what can be said here is now: State - private, although privatization is not the case. And lastly, very interestingly, I want to pay attention, to read to you. Article 21, "Preservation of cargo." A cargo unloaded without documents confirming its ownership may, on the basis of a corresponding contract, be accepted from the carrier and so on, storage and so forth. I mean, it's legal. The car, the smuggling, whatever, that's the whole shadow economy. So in this way, you can't just adopt this law, it's going to make it worse, given what other MPs have said, all that there is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u51	Sergey Matvienkov, "European Choice" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u52	Dear colleagues! Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. We are dealing with a really important issue today. And if you look at the history of it, so far, you know that there is no legislative framework for the operation of ports and the issues that arise today, probably as a result. And I am grateful to the authors for putting forward this bill for raising the subject. Port to date is the most dynamic sector. It's an accident. We have 60 per cent of GDP today, thanks to exports. Today they are stablely functioning sites, and we must clearly understand that their reform is primarily a change of ownership. And for some reason, we believe that changing ownership to date through privatization must necessarily lead to their effectiveness and improvement. I can only give two, a few examples. Example one. The port of New York and the port of Lyon are effectively operating ports in the world, a state form of ownership. Port Rotterdam is a municipal form of property. All of these facilities work primarily for the State and give money to the public budget. We can only say that if we really see that the owner is not doing well, the port is in a deplorable condition and requires intervention. Otherwise, we will face such a situation, such as when we all witnessed the situation in the port of Mariupola. Over the past year, the port has reached record levels of transshipment. During the year, 13.7 million tons of dry cargo were processed. During the past four years, the company has spent 281 million grevens modernizing, including 266 million dollars in the budget, implementing the port development plan by 2010 and so on. And there is a paradox when an enterprise with a statutory fund of 16 and a half thousand bracelets rents a port that gives a net profit of $11 million to the budget. So this is a normal situation? In order to solve these paradoxic problems, this law must be adopted only in one way. If article 3 of this Act makes it clear that we are closing down direct, indirect, any other way of privatizing, renting, transferring to the property of comprehensive, incomplete port complexes. My dears, let us look the truth in the eye and speak honestly and frankly. If we begin to surrender the ports today in part by giving up one dock, then surrender the crane, then surrender the waterways, then we will not gather. Today it is an effective business. Therefore, it would probably be wrong to approach effective businesses and put them on such a path. I therefore reiterate that this bill can be voted on in one way - if article 3 clearly spells out the prohibition that I have spoken of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u53	Acting Minister of Transport Elbrus Foreman-Ogly Abdulayev. Please take the position of the Cabinet of Ministers on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u54	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, according to the Ukrainian Act on Listing Property Rights Objects, which are not subject to privatization, ports are not subject to privatization as objects of strategic importance of the State. And here's the principle of variance with the developers in the position of the Ministry of Transport. Moreover, the proposed bill does not clearly distinguish government functions in ports and management functions. The operation of the seaports is closely linked to Ukraine’s implementation of international obligations in respect of commercial shipping, which guarantee the shipowner’s safety, peaceful passage, lifesaving, and so forth. These are also functions of public administration, particularly in the part of the jurisdiction of the port manager regarding the issuance of mandatory orders, the assembly of port customs, the establishment of vessel traffic, the handling of administrative offences, and so forth. A party to all international agreements on international shipping is the State of Ukraine, which has an appropriate obligation and responsibility under this obligation. In turn, public ports provide for these functions at seaports and seaports. The proposed draft law does not regulate all legal relations related to port activity and needs to be further developed to take account of the contradiction to the applicable laws of Ukraine. For example, such as the legal status of a seaport, already defined by article 73 of the Code of Merchandise Navigation, article 74 of the Code of Merchandise Navigation. According to articles 5 and 6 of the Water Code of Ukraine, water objects of state importance and exclusion are owned by the State of Ukraine and cannot be privatized or leased in any way. The bill deals only with seaports and does not cover sea fishing and river ports, which are also specialized. Thus, it is not possible to leave separate public functions to private public ports as operators, and this is contrary to the main contradiction between the current legislation and the concept of administrative reform of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that, when Ukraine's law on Ukrainian seaports is in force, our maritime state may lose the importance of state regulation in the area of merchant shipping and the enforcement of international obligations. Taking into account what has been said, the Ministry of Transport strongly disagrees with the proposed draft of the Ukrainian Maritime Ports Act and believes that its adoption is premature, and will cause considerable damage not only to maritime enterprises but also to Ukraine's interests as a maritime state. Request to withdraw this bill. We are ready to continue to cooperate with the national MPs, and for two months the Ministry of Transport is drafting a law on seaports, and we will give due process to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u55	Thank you. Yes, of course, the People's Deputy Mironenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u56	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I have not been able to ask the very important question and again in the continuation of the Secretary's words. The drafters agreed that, on first reading, article 3, paragraph 2, should be amended as follows. "No change in the form of state port ownership is allowed. Changes in the legal form of a public port are allowed by the adoption of a separate law." I mean, not only are we not allowed to privatize here, but we are not allowing the second part of this rule to be leased. Whether the authors agree with paragraph 2 on the first reading. Please respond. It's very necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u57	Yuri Borisovich, your closing statement, please. And I'm asking you very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u58	Yeah. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, the observation that Mironenko said we agree with him completely. I agreed with my co-sponsors, and with Strebko and with Pavluco, and that's why we accept this comment, that is, in article 3, it will be, by the way, what the rest of the deputies said. We've just been advised not to oil oil and we've gone. And we had a clear reading in the previous project where it was said. That's why we're saying, "A change in the form of ownership of an organizational legal form of a public port is not allowed." As you say. I mean, your words. And here, if it's allowed, it's only a separate law. I mean, it's not allowed. And put a stop to it. Yeah. And the second. I have great respect for Elbrus Foranovic, although I am a sailor in education, as it is said, and was the same Deputy Minister of Transport, only in maritime affairs, he is in railways, colleagues. I would not like to talk about professionalism of one or another, but Elbus Fornovic, the Law on Seaports is under review seven years ago. In seven years, you could have given it what you wanted. Only to speed up this bill, it is said, did we go to give it. Three months ago, in October, a meeting of our committee, which you attended, was set up by a commission to comment under your chairmanship. To date, these comments have not been made to the Committee. And what you're saying right now is that we can postpone it for another two years, and this law is not needed by the people's deputies, but by Ukraine. Therefore, there is no port manager who would object. The Port Association supports, supports, and supports, all the ones I said in my report. So I think on second reading, please give me those comments that you think are necessary. And I think we'll come to the same conclusion. We want it to be better than worse for maritime transport, including for the port. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, the draft of the Ukrainian Maritime Ports Act has been completed. We will make decisions taking into account the discussions and suggestions that have been made today during the consideration of the matter. I'm introducing the draft Law on Society for Defence. [[re-read]] You remember the debate about this law. And we agreed to work it out, and we sent it back to read it again. Reporter Yuri Pavlenko, please. Just briefly, I think everyone knows the essence of this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u60	Dear head, distinguished national MPs. Yuri Pavlenko, "Our Ukraine" faction, Ukrainian Youth Party. For your consideration, a revised version of the Ukrainian Defence Society Act is presented. As you recall, this bill has already been considered. It should be noted that there are 101 articles in the rereading, 110 in the previous version. The drafters, in particular, removed from the text a position document, which is subject to the statute of the relevant public organization -- local organizations, societies, the structure of society, senior management bodies, membership in society. The most critical points were made at the address of the articles on exempting society from paying taxes and other payments. This is corresponding to the 12th, 19th and 33rd articles of the previous edition. They are also deleted in a new edition that corresponds to the proposals of the budgetary committee and the Committee on National Security and Defence, which propose to be adopted in the first reading on the basis of deletion of these articles. Relevant changes have been made to articles that identify the goods and material values that come to society, the responsibility of society, the provision of training for gunnery recruits. A clarification was made in the preceding article 48 regarding the conduct of military service. It was a Mino-Defense offer. The Ministry of Defence has also proposed a preliminary edition of the 61st article on the organization of society in general schools and other secondary and higher educational institutions for military and patriotic education, since it is the norm of other legal instruments. At the suggestion of the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance and the Aviation Department of the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine, article 81 was deleted in the previous edition on the costs associated with certification, registration and re-registration of aviation technology for legal and natural persons. I would also like to highlight those comments made by individual national deputies regarding the financing of the public organization from the State Budget. Once again, I stress that the Society’s contribution to defence for all its existence was not financed by the State Budget. The expenses are directed directly by the military commission to the funding at the educational sites of the individual educational institutions of the Society for the preparation of attractive young people. In practice, there is a significant underfunding for this process, which forces society to fund this process by 70 percent. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I would like to stress once again that among the most important arguments for supporting the bill is its youth orientation, including addressing a large number of issues that contribute to the patriotic upbringing, the training of young people in the profession. In addition, unlike other public organizations, the Society has a specificity regarding the execution of a government order to train specialists for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I mean, getting young people jobs like a car driver, a crane driver, a tractor driver, and so on, which is a support for the social protection of young people. And the cost of this work cannot compare with how much the state spends today on combating negative phenomena among young people, such as drug addiction, drug addiction, AIDS, criminalization. The proposed edition is also supported by the Scientific and Expert Office, so the Committee on Youth Policy and Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism proposes to adopt the bill as a basis for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u61	Thank you. Please sit down, Yuri Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u62	And another observation for the stenographer. According to the committee’s decision in connection with the technical overlap, we also propose to adopt a bill on associations promoting defence without part 3 of article 15, which says in particular that society is exempt from payment of land taxes. We're filming it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u63	Yuri Klukkowski, do you have a procedure? Turn the procedure on. No, sit down. And the question is, we're going with a reduced procedure. Have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u64	Yuri Klukkowski, faction of our Ukraine, the People's Movement of Ukraine. I'm sorry that you're not giving me the opportunity to ask a question to the reporter, but I would like to point out that we're starting a very wrong practice -- we're not just legally establishing the names and statutory positions of certain associations of citizens, and we're not even allowing ourselves in laws to establish the names of central executive authorities, because they can change. And here the unification of citizens can change the name, change the statute, and we accept it all by law. But we also strengthen their monopoly in relations with the State in certain ways, and we do so by law. Thus, we violate the Constitution of Ukraine, by which all citizens are equal before the law, which means that no law on the specific unification of citizens can exist in nature, which is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. So what are we doing with you now?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u65	What we do is we review again in accordance with the will of the Supreme Council, once again in the first reading of the draft of this law. And then what will be the decision we'll make. Moreover, the Conciliation Council agreed that we would consider it as a reduced procedure. We act accordingly. Let's move on to the discussion. I'd like to say pros or cons right now. Yuri Carmazin, please. And I have people written down here, and I'm going after them. No, it says "recorded" from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u66	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Honorable National Deputies, reverend people of Ukraine! I, when I examined the previous draft of the law, spoke to you, informed you in the same way that the law was proposed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it could not be explicitly accepted. I can't say that today. Why? Absolutely all the remarks that I said were taken into account, I have now compared and deleted those positions that did not correspond to both the Constitution and the current legislation. Now I'd like to say such a thing. First of all, general. My introduction to DOSAAF, I started in the 1st or 2nd grade, then I continued.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u67	You have a memory.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u68	Learning at an airline in Smili, in Cherkaschi. Today, the airline has 6 medals, the radio service has 40 medals, the motocross, and so on. Why do I say that? And what I'm saying is that this is an unusual social organization that we're just talking about, this is a public organization that's putting in place the task of promoting the defence of Ukraine, and it's tasked with separating children from the streets once and for all, a growing generation from the streets and making them normal law-abiding people. Thus, it may be that the purpose is that we may adopt a special law regarding this association. This is the first time. With regard to all the problems that were, inter alia, in article 15 on income tax, in article 19 by. And so on, they're excluded, and I think there's a lot of motivation for the first reading right now. I strongly deny that we are today, this contradicts the Constitution, because as far as the executive body is concerned, it is clear that the President is changing, that his vision of the organs is changing. We're going to adopt a law on the Cabinet of Ministers, where we're going to list all the organs, then please, so will they, and so long as we're writing them without a name. And this association of promotions we have to write that it's the successor here to that society that was, and it's also written down by the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic. So in this case, I thank those people, the authors, for having listened to the critical not entirely, and to the harsh statements that I used then, and I think that the law still needs to be worked on, it needs to be further refined, but it can already be accepted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u69	Thank you. I mean, you're in. Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u70	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. I will advocate the adoption of this bill and explain why. In principle, I was surprised to learn that the last bill had not been passed, based on the following motives. One. It would seem I'm the person who's pushing for 300,000 today. An army that's bare barefoot today, there's nothing to hold us, we have to stretch our legs on our clothes. And it would seem that the society that promotes this army would seem to me logically have to oppose it. But based on the fact that it is the only organization that deals substantively with the social protection of young people today, the only organization that is still somehow diverting young people from this case today. I am speaking to you as President of the All-Ukrainian Union for the Protection of Drivers' Rights. We have studied in detail the problem of training drivers, including for the army and the people's economy, and they need to be prepared at least 400,000. Human beings per year. And I am clearly telling you that the conditions under which this society works must be supported by legislation. Therefore, I strongly support the adoption of this law and ask the MPs even if there are any shortcomings in the first reading referred to by the People's Deputies of Pavlovenko, it is necessary to agree with the adoption of this special law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u71	Valentin Zubov. I take it you don't mind, do you? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u72	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I am indeed against this bill, but against it being passed. I agree with my colleagues who have said that this bill is very important to us. The main purpose and purpose of the bill is defined by the second section of the bill, the essence of which is that the partnership should provide the most close assistance to the State in the military and patriotic education of Ukrainian citizens, and especially young people. But do we need to talk today in the Hall about the importance and the problem of raising young people in general today, including military-patriot education? As a result of the violation of the whole system that has existed in the upbringing of young people, you are well, you are well aware, unfortunately, that crime, drug abuse, violence and many other anti-social phenomena are growing in its environment. Therefore, the task of partnership is very bright, very important for the country as a whole. In addition, you also know this very well, distinguished people's deputies, we have a real problem - the lack of preparation for the service of a large part of our youth in the Armed Forces. In terms of the health of the callers, their physical training is also a very real problem. Well, thirdly, there is another problem that I cannot help but say and which, in my view, poses a very serious threat to the national security of our country. What is it? Today we have no threat, no real threat of outside invasion. But you, politicians, are all very aware that this will not always be the case. And imagine that such a real threat to outside invasion has arisen. Every young person faces the challenge of going to protect the Family. But the question is, What kind of family should he go to protect? The Rodin who shamelessly dealt with the heroes of the Great Fatherly War, their grandfathers, throwing them on their graves because there's no other way to survive? Protecting the family, where the rich noodles sent their children abroad, while the rest of the young people view it as chicken meat? I am far from thinking that the children of our millionaires and billionaires are eager to repeat Alexander Matrosov's feat. That is why the problem is very serious. I think that, of course, this most serious problem is not resolved by the bill, but it is in a position to correct it. I therefore join my colleagues who believe that this bill is essential. That's why I'm in.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u73	Yeah, you're in, aren't you? For. Katerina Samuels for. Then there is no need to speak. Against Gennady Samofal, please. So we already know the arguments. Last time, everyone remembers your arguments. And the vote is better for us to mobilize. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u74	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues to understand. I want to say that I dedicated 12 years of my service to DOSAAF. Ukraine. The DOSAAF Kemerov Committee was chaired by the largest DOSAAF regional committee in Russia and the Donetsk DOSAAF regional committee in Ukraine. Of course, this law is absolutely necessary. Because the functions of this organization are very important to the State. But we need to adopt this law and define ourselves in one. That's what I'm seeing today. The fact that the drafters of the law did not decide the main issue today. And yet whose property it is. The property of DOSAAF has been created for 70 years. It was primarily created by States and party bodies. Great values have been passed on, mass means land, state-built sports complexes and so on, and so on and so forth. Today, this law places everything on the property of the Society for the Protection of Ukraine. I can read you the articles. Well, I think it's better not to do that, so here's the 10th part of the article, and so on. The law-abiding party is therefore the SAAF of the USSR, the Defence Society. But the office is given the last instance of this organization's office. So a narrow circle of people will solve the problems of what to do with the land, what to do with the sports complexes, what to do with the educational functions, what to do with the property. We can sell it, we can do whatever we want, so it's absolutely important to determine here that if we determine that it is, it means that the property created by 70 years by all citizens of the former Union and, including Ukraine, we are giving up today is one problem. If we want to keep track of this activity, then it's time to connect here, it's likely, the Hosmein Foundation, so that any alienation of property, there's land there, that means sports facilities, that the training base is only being conducted in accordance with the law. Next. I don't like what they would have said to me, but here's article 17, and more specifically article 27 says that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, is rural. Village, city councils provide income tax benefits, in particular. commercial activity and so on. So the benefits remain. Because in the second assembly, so in the second assembly, I'm looking at this last law, we've just written in the budget a separate line, as long as it takes the armed forces, as long as it takes to develop sport, it's normal, it's all controlled. And the last thing I really don't like. Here's article 25. Involvement of authorities, authorities of local self - government, and officials and officials. Society is not allowed except in cases provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. It's a system that doesn't really understand, you know. The state's helping, right here, doing everything, and that means there's no way to intervene. I therefore believe that these provisions need to be refined and adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u75	You're in, too, aren't you? Right. Dear colleagues, I think here we have convinced each other that such a bill is necessary. I think that once we accept it in the first reading, the proposals will be made, they will be taken into account in preparing for the second reading. Thus, the review of the draft Act on Associations for the Defence of Ukraine has been completed. The decision will be decided on the day of the vote. I am introducing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor's Payment. Reporter Julius Jakovitch Yooffe. Please, your honor, let's talk about this project briefly and quickly, quickly, by continuing our work for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u76	The bill is designed to eliminate certain contradictions in the law. The mechanism to restore the ability and business of the borrower or to define his bankruptcy has been improved. As well as liquidation of creditors' claims procedure. Ukraine’s law on the restoration of the debtor’s ability to pay or the determination of his bankruptcy does not give rise to bankruptcy. on the one hand, creditors ensure that their requirements, on the other hand, are properly restored to the debtor's ability to pay. In addition, a valid law has a lack of social orientation, since its position does not properly take into account the private interests of the debtor’s working group. In view of what has been said, it is suggested that the law should be amended, which, more clearly, define the competitions of creditors and the list of rights given to them. More detail is given to the rights and mechanisms of their implementation to the owners of the property during the bankruptcy proceedings. They determine the possibility of arresting the debtor’s property and other limitations on the debtor’s actions regarding his property under the sanctions procedure only in cases where this does not impede the execution of the sanctions. It's the most important of all this money. Exclusion from the law rules that are already governed by the current legislation of Ukraine, as well as those that create contradictions in the law itself. They define more clearly the mandate of the creditor committee as an electoral body representing the interests of all creditors in the bankruptcy case and having the ability to make decisions expeditiously within its competence. The interests of the debtor’s working group in the recovery process are more fully satisfied. They're improving the debtor's accounting process with creditors. These changes will help to preserve businesses by restoring their capacity to pay, which in turn will prevent job cuts by involving investment and overall improving the economic situation in Ukraine. The adoption and implementation of the bill does not require additional material and other costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u77	Thank you. All right, we can sit down. From the Committee, Vladimir Demjochin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u78	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, the People's Deputies! In accordance with the Rules, I had to submit. I'm introducing a bill that you've just heard. But the situation is broader and requires broader consideration. The law in force has been fairly active in the country's economic life, and it should be noted that we have received nine bills to the committee during the 1st and 2nd sessions. However, I would like to point out that despite the Committee's proposal to consider them as a package, although there were also bills, which should be said to destroy the law in force. [[All relevant amendments to the Act]] Today we are considering one law and the committee has decided on the first reading as a basis and not to repeat what is proposed, you have listened to the drafter of the bill, as proposed in the bill. I ask for the support of the Committee's proposal and its adoption on Thursday. To vote in favour of the adoption of the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u79	Thank you, Volodymyr Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues! Let's talk about pros and cons. Six national deputies were enrolled. We have to choose 4. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin is out of the contest, and he's going first. The faction of our Ukraine. Are you in favour or against? Yuri Anatolyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u80	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! I would like to thank National Deputy Yoff for paying attention to this important issue, this important law. Of course, many changes must be made to this law, and many suggestions may still need to be made. I'll say in a nutshell why I like him. He wants to regulate more clearly the way in which the debtor’s ability to pay, i.e. the enterprise entity, is restored, proposes to add a position to Article 1, which does not include a misdemeanour, a foam and a fine fixed at the date of the application to the court, as well as the obligations arising from the damage to the life and health of the citizens, the obligation to pay the copyright, the liability to the founders, the debtors of the legal person arising from such participation. This bill defines the concept of competitive creditors more clearly. It has a number of positives. At the same time, I would like to see such comments taken into account during the drafting of this bill. During the process, a moratorium on the satisfaction of creditors will be subject to the debtor’s obligation to pay taxes and to the congregations that are due before the date of the moratorium. And such a change can lead to lower revenues to Ukraine’s state budget and a deterioration in tax discipline. So on the one hand, we help the enterprise, on the other hand, we can hit the budget. Next. The bill determines that the debtor’s liability does not include a misdemeanour determined on the date of the application to the household court. But such indiscretion is a means of ensuring the fulfilment of an obligation that was assumed by the borrower under a civil law contract, i.e. the measure of responsibility for non-compliance. We can't say that when you make a deal, you don't have to think. You have to think and answer for every action you take if you're making a civil law agreement. So I would ask you to adopt this law in the first reading, but to take these notes into account, as well as those expressed by the Scientific and Experimental Department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u81	Thank you. Mikhailo Antonovich Pavlovski, please, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. You don't? Mikola Kravchenko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u82	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. By all accounts, the 2060 law, here's my offer to support it, here. But I want to extend a little bit the scope of the problem that has led to both the bill and Yoofe, and mine, 1049, and Wolinz, and the People's Deputy Stoyan. It is a matter of changing the System-wide Bankruptcy Act, which is applicable today, practically every day, but some of its provisions today make us substantially more sophisticated. I therefore repeat that 2060, the Yoofe bill, needs to be adopted, he will address the points that Karmazin has mentioned and the drafter of the bill. I want to say that we also need to support the Wallace bill. I cannot help but agree that the People's Deputy Stoyan has also introduced a law on bankruptcy as a whole, but should note in particular the following. I don't trust the People's Deputy Stoyan at all. Why? Because he knew at the time of the adoption of the Bankruptcy Act that trade unions were effectively excluded from control of the procedure, he knew that the law I had enacted, 1049, could not be extended to the entire fuel and energy complex because it would destroy my law, which I had introduced, 1049. And yet it does. I find these bills simply provocative, and I'm ready to answer for it. and confirm these words. Therefore, I ask and appeal to you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, Law 1049, this is the first law of this Quartet, which has already passed the first reading, adopted, completed on second reading, today is archival, and I ask that it be put to the vote on Thursday. Why, Vladimir Mikhailovich and the people's deputies? Today, the Mintopenergo is undergoing a questionable restructuring, which will eventually put on its ears, sorry for the expression, the entire Supreme Council, because it is destroying existing public enterprises today, creating new public companies from the ground that are subject to the bankruptcy law. And so if the mine was in bankruptcy, today all state-owned new companies will go into bankruptcy. I therefore ask you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, to instruct the Secretariat to include in the voting agenda Act 1049 on the second reading procedure. If we accept it, then we will somehow get out of this situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u83	Thank you. Olga Hinsburg, are you in favour? Against it, huh? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u84	Ginsburg, 161 constituency, Communist faction. I speak on this law and many problems, many examples of why this law has suddenly arisen. And here, in the example of his district, this is the questionable bankruptcy that enterprises are facing, especially I have enterprises that are as bright as Konotap, Shostka, and then this sanitation, the liquidation. That is why I would very much like to thank Joseph for the timely appearance of this law. And I want for my constituents, for my businesses, to provide little information, including support for the adoption of this law. Ukraine's "Recovery of Debtor Payability" Act was adopted in 1992, the first. And this law of amendment to this law makes such a difference to them. The bill provides for changes that primarily relate to a clearer regulation at the legislative level of the restoration of the capacity of the enterprise, the debtor, and the ability to take account of the rights and interests of the labour force. Thus, it is suggested that article 1 should add the position that the debtor’s financial obligations do not include the insolvent, foam, and fines fixed on the date of the application to the household court — the positive that it is. It is also anticipated that under the moratorium on the satisfaction of creditors, it will be understood that the debtor’s obligation to pay taxes and congregations is also a positive one that is set forth in this law. It is also envisaged that competitive creditors will be presented in the following edition. Competitive creditors, creditors on debt requirements that have arisen prior to the conduct of the bankruptcy case and whose claims are not secured by the debtor’s mortgage. And I'd like to make a point: in storage. Bankruptcy proceedings are convened by creditors' assemblies, elected by the creditor committee, and the creditor committee is necessarily composed of eight persons and a representative of the debtor’s employee is included. It's also very important. It is also envisaged in article 39 that when a peace agreement on a creditor’s claim can be declared invalid, it is first, when the debtor is given unreliable information, they cancel the law, if they are removed, and the implementation of the peace agreement leads to bankruptcy, it is also eliminated. In addition, I would like to say that the bill defines more clearly the concept of competitive creditors and defines the list of their rights. And defining the credentials of the creditor committee as an electoral body. And the point is, my colleagues have already said about this point, the bill stipulates that a moratorium on the satisfaction of creditors' claims will be subject to the debtor's obligation to pay taxes. Of course, the budget will suffer some damage. I want to say when I finish my speech. Very good law and, in my opinion, we should support and support the proposals offered by Kravchenko, my colleague. But what I'm saying is, we're making a lot of good laws, we just can't do them. And this is today's bankruptcy takeover -- it's treason today, and it's a violation of current legislation that burdens our employees, who then lose their wages, because they're going bankrupt today, they're going to transfer, they're going to go clean, they're going to hang everything, and all the people who work and have debt don't get paid. That's what's bothering me, and I think we should move away from this somehow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u85	Vladimir Cherniak, please. You "for" or "against," Vladimir Kirilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, bankruptcy is a normal phenomenon in a normal, civilized economy. I remember on one of the first trips to the United States, we had a meeting with a millionaire with a successful millionaire. And he told us with a shining smile when I first went bankrupt, when I went bankrupt the second time, because it's about financial bankruptcy, about the rehabilitation of the company, and it's normal things. But unfortunately in our economy, which is not yet civilized enough and market-oriented in the real sense of the word, we have had a situation of suffering. On the one hand, there is no bankruptcy procedure or it works to the detriment of the economy, we know examples of artificial bankruptcy and it happens quite often. Privatizations at no cost, on the other hand, do not operate mechanisms to restore the debtor’s ability to pay. Sanitation mechanisms don't work. So we need to make changes to the Bankruptcy Framework Law, and I support this proposal, and it's already been happening today, and on the other hand, we need to take urgent steps to restore the debtor's payworthiness. This complex of measures is the subject of changes to the law that Joseph proposed. And in my opinion, the bill needs to be supported, really, it's a very pressing problem. The essence of his proposals is to create real conditions for recovery of payability and, above all, through the arrival of loans. He suggests identifying clearly the rights and responsibilities of competing creditors, asking them to come. And in the meantime, we have a lot of people who are interested in bankruptcy because they're priceless, well, they're going to buy it or they're going to take care of it. If it's normal, once again, it's done, it's good, and if it's artificial, it's very bad. Thus, he proposes that the right of the warden be clearly defined by the property, if necessary, and that the Bankruptcy Act does not clearly define it. Regarding the arrest of property, there are specific proposals and suggestions on how to execute the sanctions. So, in my opinion, this needs to be supported. I share a proposal that has also been made from this rostrum, that there will still be some changes to the bill regarding the need to carry out the obligation to pay taxes. It's a holy thing. In the course of bankruptcy, even taxes must be paid. So I think I can make this change, and in general, we can take it on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u87	Thank you. Vladimir Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u88	The need for this law is dictated by life itself if we are to speak frankly. First of all, it blocks the adoption of the other eight bills, which destroy the very ideology of the Bankruptcy and Recovery Act. Therefore, this law is progressive and in general helps to achieve the objective of the law itself on the restoration of capacity to pay. Another conversation, here's the question that Olga Ginsburg raised, is that we can't force these laws to work today because on the ground, these laws are everywhere. And they're in violation of why we passed the law and the principle of bankruptcy in general, based on the current trends, of the economic benefits that today in bankruptcy are in the same United States of America, where Vladimir Kirilovich described for the first time the bankruptcy was there, for the second time bankruptcy was, indeed, bankruptcy was, there was, in fact, a simple procedure announced by the bankruptcy officer, and this procedure allows for new loans, the opening up of completely new businesses, the opening of a completely new case and the continuation of a person's life. It all depends on the financial and banking system, the national wealth that has been accumulated, and on the ability of bankers to share with entrepreneurs some of the wealth they have accumulated. We don't have that situation today. Therefore, we have a situation of recovery of the debtor's capacity to pay and is of such a painful nature. Here is how to overcome this disease and how the law offered by Joseph helps. I am in favour of adopting this law on first reading and continuing to improve it within the framework of the laws on the restoration of the debtor's capacity to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u89	Thank you. Please, Igor Ivanovich Umanski, Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economics and European Integration.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u90	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I will not repeat myself and say these reinforcements that will be passed into this law with the adoption of a bill initiated by the People's Deputy Yoffe. In our view, however, the draft law has a number of very important shortcomings that need to be understood and with which it will be necessary, whether to correct them in some way, or to seek some compromise in order not to balance the bill. First of all, what we're up against. A rule is deleted according to which the appeal to the debtor’s property is effected solely by the approval of the court. The exclusion of this standard may, in our view, result in an uncontrolled sale or even the sale of debtors’ assets. In addition, the rule that, in our view, this negative phenomenon, the peace agreement is declared invalid if it is executed or the debtor is bankrupted. The main purpose of this law is to restore its ability to pay. If the peace agreement leads to the liquidation of this debtor, the main idea of the law is violated. Thirdly, the mandate of the creditor committee is greatly expanded under the sanctions procedure. I mean, it's a very narrow circle of creditors with those powers that now have general creditors' congregations. That is, all creditors make key decisions on the future fate of the debtor or the opening of the liquidation procedure, or the extension of the sanctioning procedure, the approval of the recovery plan, the removal of the arbitrator managing the sanction, etc. In our view, this is also not appropriate and is not an extension of the bill. In addition, the bill provides for the possibility of exchanging creditors' claims, i.e. a certain amount of capitalisation not only because of corporate rights as it is today, but also because of the borrower's assets. So in the process of signing the peace agreement, there could be capitalized debt on assets, and the debtor actually ended up in a state where he doesn't have any assets at all. But according to these same suggestions, this is not the reason for the breakup of these peace covenants. And so on. So our proposal goes back to what National Deputy Demöchin has already said about the position of the committee. There are nine bills that are essentially designed to strengthen the bill. They need to be united. There's a comprehensive bill introduced by the government, this is 2273. The committee proposed to take it as a basis for joint consideration of these bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u91	Yes, please, George Joseph.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u92	First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues for their support. I completely disagree with what the government representative said. First of all, he totally changed what the committee was proposing, so we need to read the committee's ruling. The committee proposes to adopt this law as a basis. And you can't take incompatible. Nine laws. You can take those laws together, as spoke of by your esteemed colleague Kravchenko. They do not coincide and are designed to restore businesses. Other laws that have been applied to these laws that have been made are simply destroying it. And the committee proposes, said Demjochin, that this law should be adopted as a basis and that it should be worked out on committees. Because the suggestions that Stoyan has in Volinz, in part of the social dimension, are correct. And we can unite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-14-m1.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. I ask the Secretariat to raise the project 1049 - and include it, too, at the invitation of the National Deputy Kravchenko. Dear colleagues, is there a desire to continue our work? There's no time, is there? Thus, the evening meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Thank you for your fruitful work. Tomorrow we'll start working at 10 o'clock, we'll continue our work. Questions will be considered according to the schedule of meetings. Good-bye.
