ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:58]] Registered -431 A total of 431 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, on June 13, 2003, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Vladlenović, who was elected on June 8, 2003, at the midterm election of the Ukrainian People's Deputy in the 1-seat constituency No. 206. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the Ukrainian national deputy Jaroslavsky Alexander Vladenović is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u2	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u3	I am committed to defending Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions. Caring for the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I pledge to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. To carry out their duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u4	Welcome. In accordance with article 2.5.2 of the regulations on Tuesday, we have, honourable colleagues, 45 minutes for speeches, statements, reports, proposals from factions and parliamentary groups. Members of factions and groups, please apply. In the meantime, I will announce the parliamentary questions that have come. Is there no objection? A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. We're getting back to work. Georgia Kruczkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purpose of stopping the US side from utilising Ukrainian SS-24 strategic missiles. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:03:25]] For the 110. Decision taken. Orestes Klimpus to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the continuation of emergency reconstruction work on mine number 9 of the Solotvinian Mine and for the improvement of its financial status. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:03:57]] For 131 Decision taken. Peter Diminsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of organizational arrangements for the celebration of the 150th anniversary of John Frank's birth. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:25]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Georgia Manchulenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration of funding for the information programme for the public education institutions, the computerization of rural schools for 2001-2003 in the Kismon electoral district number 203 of the Cherniew region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:02]] For-127 Decision taken. Andrija School to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the national programme "Foreign Ukraine" for the period until 2005 during January/May 2003. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:36]] For-97 Decision taken. Alexander Goodima to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financial situation of Ukrainian generating companies and the threat of the collapse of the Burstin Energy Island. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:04]] For-123 Decision taken. Alexander Pecklesenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation that took place in the agro-industrial complex of Zaporozhye. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:32]] For 211 Decision taken. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for information on violations of Ukrainian legislation on the compilation of library funds through printed publications. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:05]] For 134 Decision taken. Vladimir Petrenka, head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for the clarification of the law enforcement issues that arise after the privatization of state enterprises. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:35]] For-103 Decision taken. Oleg Tajnibok is with the Attorney General of Ukraine on the environmental situation in the village of Smolino Brodivo in the region of Lviv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:05]] For-97 Decision taken. Vladimir Skomarowski - to the Attorney General of Ukraine for further investigation into the causes of the death of a military service officer. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:34]] For 105 Decision taken. Group of National Deputies: Kostenko, Assadchev, Bespalij - to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the verification of the facts of the persecution and the legality of the dismissal of the judge of the Delhi District Court of Kiev, Ruslan Roženka. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:07]] For-90 Decision taken. Vladimir Bronnikov - to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the gravity of the complaint of the employees of the South American Association of the Basilic Region of Zaporozhye. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:39]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Victor Pinzenik is the Attorney General of Ukraine for the violation of the laws of the State authorities concerning the residents of the house number 38 per ul. General Chuprinka in M. Lions. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:12]] For-127 Decision taken. Alexia Baburin is with the Attorney General of Ukraine in the face of dissatisfaction with the response to a request for a situation involving the Dniprostal company. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:41]] For-103 Decision taken. Sergey Teryochina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on gross violations of legislation on the construction of the city in the Bologna district of Kiev and the undue reaction of the Henprocurator to the previous parliamentary address on the problem. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:16]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Mr. Tomenka is with the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the facts of censorship and the obstacles to the professional activities of the chief editor of the Security Territory, the deputy editor of the editorial and publicist programmes of the Central Broadcasting Office of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine Rudić. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:56]] For 106 Decision taken. Istwan Haydosh to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the decision to reform the Irsavsky and Vinogradov military commissions of the Zakarpat region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:23]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for formal answers regarding the failure of the Lenin District Court to execute its decision on the payment of salaries to residents of the city of Kirovgrad. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:55]] For 111 Decision taken. Michael Dobkin to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to help resolve the issue of return from Lebanon of Ukrainian citizens. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:25]] For a-117. Decision Adopted Vladimir Bronnikov to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the gravity and enforcement of the court's decision on the payment of salaries to the former employee of KSP "Russia" of the Zaporez Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:56]] For-92 Decision Adopted Alexander Pecklesenka to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the actions of the National Bank in connection with the loss of grain crops and the inability to repay loans to future crops. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:27]] For the 120th. Decision taken. Vadim Gurov to the head of the Supreme Court of Agriculture of Ukraine on the use of debt relief measures for employees of Crevy Base Number 16. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:58]] For 168 Decision Adopted Alexander Turchinov to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund regarding the size of the pension of some employees of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:27]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Levka Lukyanenko to the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for a violation in Kiev of Ukraine’s current legislation on language and advertising. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:57]] For the 180. Decision taken. Andrew School to the Head of the State Liaison and Information Committee of Ukraine on the question of the transfer of the Temple and Monastery premises to Lviv to the area of the administration of the Lviv Observatories and their subsequent return to the religious community. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:33]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Anatolia Átovajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the payment of the debt on the salaries of the employees of the Anakiyemětalorbúd building company of the Anakiyev metallurgy plant. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:09]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the emergency situation of existing clean-up facilities and the need to restore funding for the continuation of the construction of sewage treatment facilities and a decommissioning collector in the village of the town-type Kalanczak of the Hersson Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:45]] For 116 Decision taken. Anatolia Átovajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for 2003 for the completion of construction in the non-state branch of the Olhowajka Mine of the coal mining association Orženikidevuhil. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:20]] For-75 The decision is not taken. National Deputy Drachewski to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the conduct of the liquidation procedure for the WAT "Nicopolski Principle and Nickel Combined". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:48]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Andrea Poliita to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the mandate of Prime Minister of Ukraine No. 32238 from 6 June 2003 to a letter from the National Council of Youth Organizations No.05-04/01 from 23 May 2003 and discrimination against the youth movement of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:31]] For 113 Decision taken. Jaroslav Kendzior to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of transporting and dumping in the territory of the former Novostělnian chemical combination in Lviv, an unknown chemical waste. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:02]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Eugene Kirilchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of law enforcement officials in the Volin region, upon the cessation of Tonis TV television and ignoring the ruling of the Supreme Court of Arbitration. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:35]] For 118 Decision taken. All requests have been voted on. Let's move on to the performances. Is that how you put the vote again? Let's, if you insist, put the vote again, for God's sake. Anatolia Átnajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the payment of the debt on the salary of the workers of the Jenakijemetallurgbud Building Authority of the Anakiyev Metalworks Plant. [[10:21:25]] For-157. Decision taken. Anatolia Ástovajka to the prime minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for 2003, for the completion of construction on the state-owned Olhowajka mine, a coal mining association of Ordjonikidewugil. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:56]] For-95 Decision taken. Victor Drachewski to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the conduct of the liquidation procedure of the "Inovat-Nicopolski Principle and Nickel Combined". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:24]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Jaroslav Kendzior to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of transporting and dumping in the territory of the former Novostělnian chemical combination in Lviv, an unknown chemical waste. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:52]] For 171 Decision taken. Let us move on to speeches commissioned by MPs and factions. We've got 25 minutes left. Yes, Anatoly Warfolomyovich Rahanski from the MP's faction of political parties - industrialists, entrepreneurs and "Trud Ukraine". Prepare Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u5	Anatoly Rahansky, "Trudova Ukraine", fourth European constituency. A statement by the deputy faction of political parties - industrialists and entrepreneurs of Ukraine and Trudova Ukraine: "The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking intends to introduce a draft law on amending and supplementing the VAT Act, which proposes to cancel the VAT benefits for the construction of new housing. The adoption of such a standard will cause serious anxiety both within Ukrainian construction organizations and in society as a whole. It is thanks to the benefits provided by the law that 97 percent of the total housing investment in Ukraine is made up of natural persons. To remind you that today, 1.8 million people are living in the same land. The man is in line for housing, of which 550 thousand. - Multi-childs, disabled, war participants, black people. The housing issue is beneficial to everyone. Our faction, based on the interests of the electorate and the strategic line of the state, considers the proposed changes to the law, which deprive the construction organizations of the benefits of VAT taxation to be economically unwarranted. And those who do harm to the industry do not contribute to the realization of the constitutional right of citizens to housing cause social tension in society. By the way, Ukraine had already experienced such a failed experiment in 1997. Second. In recent times, there has been an increase in the number of withdrawals of subscribers from electricity for failure to resolve the issue of payment between energy authorities and housing and utilities. The place of individual work with non-payers by non-payers is subject to the applicable law by disciplinary payers. Thus, in my district of Eupatoria, in the Children's All-Ukrainian Health Facility, electricity from the elevators and lighting in apartments and driveways of numerous houses along the streets of Kolkhoznay 2, Constitution 32, Dmitry Ulyanova 1a, Emisheva 124, Neklesova 9, Lenina 50. In particular, the energy of the disabled, the elderly, the sick, who cannot descend from the upper floors for months, create favourable conditions for theft and banditry in the dark driveways of homes. Or by order of Kremenergo on 9 June, electricity from Saki resort users was cut off for six hours outside the emergency. My repeated appeals as a national deputy to the leadership of Crimeanergo, Mintopenergo Ukraine, end with a write-off that 100 per cent of electricity consumers pay for its consumption. Vladimir Mikhailovich! I request that my statement on this issue be considered as a parliamentary appeal to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and to the Attorney-General for action and punishment of those responsible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u6	Vadim Gurov of the People’s Government’s Deputy Group. Prepare for the Nightingale.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u7	Dear colleagues! The People's Government MPs draw attention to the situation in the domestic industry as a result of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 22.04 2003 No. 557 on the Norms and Procedures for Counting to the Special Fund of the National Budget of Ukraine Part of Income by State Non-corporated, Corporateized Casinos. and their unity. Members of our parliamentary group repeatedly and in writing, and at personal meetings, drew the attention of members of the Ukrainian government to the inadmissibility of applying the rules of the decree. Dividend is 15 percent of the net profit, which amounts to 48 percent of the government’s income tax. 48 percent. After all, the removal of a fraction of income from the government budget of Ukraine in the size set out in the regulation will result in unequal management conditions. And in enterprises of non-state ownership. A significant measure of peace will reduce incentives for the development of state - owned and penal enterprises. The result will be a lack of interest in the listed enterprises. It's about making a profit. Stopping technical re-arms programs and eventually reducing the competitiveness of these enterprises in both internal and external markets. Moreover, because of the characteristics of the domestic tax system, the application of regulations can lead to bankruptcy of state enterprises. It is evident that the end result of such a government policy will be a reduction in government revenues. In view of the above, we ask the government to make changes to the above-mentioned ruling. First of all, we're proposing to lower the accounting rate to five percent of the net profit. In doing so, with a view to avoiding double taxation, it is appropriate to change the defined dividends into defined dividends. Counting the net profit portion. Secondly, we insist that we allow the mutualization of the recorded net profit portion of these enterprises from the state budget of VAT. Finally, the size of the net profit portion should be reduced by the amount needed to carry out technical re-arms or capital construction of the enterprise. We believe that the adoption of the proposed changes will allow the interests of state-owned enterprises to be taken into account and will be more effectively managed by these enterprises, and we hope, in support of both the government and the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u8	Victor Andryovich Slauta has a word from the faction of the Ukrainian agrarian party, to prepare Turkey.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u9	Slauta, Donetskina, faction of the Ukrainian agrarian party Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Without a doubt, the problems of coping with the effects of natural disasters in agriculture are the worst today for the village of Ukraine. But at the same time, during last week's election meetings, members of our faction found that no less acute for the village is the issue of social infrastructure. That's understandable. Because the situation in this area remains very difficult, and you all know it. The closure of social infrastructures continues. For many villages, the issue of gasification, construction of water lines, and hard - covered roads is unattainable. With regard to the deficits of local budgets, there was no problem with the maintenance of social infrastructures that were passed on to businesses — 60 percent — to local governments. At the same time, in rural areas there are an unbuilt thousand and a hundred schools, six hundred and twenty kindergartens, twenty - four thousand gas networks, a number of other sociocultural and household objects. Many of them have a very high level of building readiness, but in the vast majority of these objects, as in previous years, no amount has been allocated, regardless of the passions that have raged in this room quite recently. In the same vein, the Ukrainian Law on Social Development of the Village is being ignored. Taking into account the state of affairs and the budgetary situation of the next year, the faction of the agrarian party requires the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, to solve this acute social problem as soon as possible. First of all, in addressing economic and social development issues, the state must come out of the need to form in villages full of living and working conditions for its citizens. Secondly, the government in the state budget next year needs to provide for a separate line of expenditure on financing the state programme and to recover the cost of own costs of the land-use entities dedicated to the construction of the social areas of the village. And third. MinAPC needs to immediately prepare and submit to the Supreme Council a project of the National Rural Social Development Programme for the next 10 years. It is time to reorient Ukraine's policy towards intensifying the social development of the village, without which it will not be possible to overcome the crises in the agro-industrial complex, increase production and address the problem of food supply. What about today? We must have taken on a lot in this room. The cabman on the side of the MinAPC is that way. After all, every MP today shares those financial deficits in the field. Order 86, which came out on June 4, only 12 districts. Where are the last areas? Will this year’s money come under New Year’s Eve in December? Dear Peter Alexiyovich, the Committee on Budgets, we scheming. Mayday, mayday, mayday, mayday, Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u10	Alexander Valentinovich Turchinov, of the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Prepare Alexander the Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u11	Dear colleagues! I have to remind you from this rostrum that the Supreme Council is the supreme legislative body of Ukraine. Therefore, our only and primary priority is to make quality, responsible legislative decisions that should ensure the spiritual, social, and economic development of our citizens. At the same time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine began not to adopt but to print laws, most of which are of poor quality, professionally and legally vulnerable, lobbying and narrow corporate. Each sessional week we adopt about 100 normative acts that only bear the name of the laws. The questionable changes made to the Supreme Council Rules in the Ukrainian House turn legislative activity into regulatory expansion. The reduced procedure deals with responsible decisions that shape the country’s policy for decades. But even these weak and simplified regulatory standards are being systematically and deliberately violated. For example, during the last sessional week of the 17 legislative acts adopted in the second reading, all 17 were adopted in violation of the regulatory procedure, and 7 of these legislative acts were distributed to deputies on the day of the vote. Our faction requires us to stop this legislative shabbash, to return to civilian parliamentary activity when the vote is not conducted in an absolute manner, but for every bill immediately after its consideration. Work, dear fellows, is required every day, not only on Thursdays. We demand to make appropriate changes to the Rules and block the possibility for the Supreme Council leadership to transform Parliament into a short-term press press. By the way, this car is run by the bank’s street masters who are far from sober. We do not see ourselves being able to participate in the sequential destruction of parliamentaryism, and we will use all of the opportunities available to us to bring Parliament back to its work in a civilized way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u12	Yes, the word is Alexander Alexander Moroz of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, and I want to say that no one is directing me, directing me or directing me. Except for Parliament. I would ask the people’s MP to remember that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u13	A statement by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine in connection with the threat of the new Chernobyl disaster. In recent times reports of an unfortunate situation at the Chernobyl nuclear station have been circulating in Kiev and all over Ukraine. Official authorities call this rumor, assure us that the situation is under control. But the real situation is, as scientists say and press reports say, far from being successful. What is more, it causes serious anxiety. Built 17 years ago, the "Hidden" facility in CHAUS is known as the sarcophagus, calculated earlier for a 20-year period of exploitation, is being destroyed in front of the eyes. In fact, its bed became a lattice that casts radiation dust, and the radiation in the sarcophagus has increased recently. The overlap structure is recognized as an accident, and the slope of the columns increases, which can lead to the collapse of the plates and all the structures of the sarcophagus shell. The fall and destruction of "Hidden" on its scale can surpass the Chernobyl disaster of 1986. Life then in Ukraine’s vast territory, and not only Ukraine, can be considered destroyed. Dnipro will become a dead river with a pool of small rivers and ponds. The faction of our party laments that the President and the government, knowing well about the disaster, are not taking any real steps to prevent it. Worse yet, the president and the government in the West made a show to close the station, giving in to the promises of foreigners to build a new shelter together over the sarcophagus. For various reasons, however, Ukraine’s construction in the Great Seven countries is not financed, and Ukraine’s spending is not used effectively. The government is not ready to solve issues of this magnitude. In these circumstances, we need to mobilize all the internal resources to build a sarcophagus-2 with our own strength. However, the governing regime gave priority to political games, the struggle to preserve the power of individual clans, and the people tossed themselves into the background and the will of chance. In this situation, socialists see the only way to create a national fund to build a new shelter over the Chernobyl sarcophagus. We need to stop the construction and installation of all residences, palaces, the acquisition of cars, airplanes, helicopters for the enjoyment of higher leadership, the construction of vans, the reduction of the costs of civil engineering and power structures, the use of commercial banks, the demand of oligarchs for the return of funds from abroad and the immediate start of a building to save the Ukrainian people from a new nuclear hell. There is also a need to control the sale of vegetables, fruits, mushrooms, and fish, since many of them are in the capital and are not only sold from a zone affected by radiation. We demand that the President and the government publish full information about the situation in the Chernobyl AES region. We don't need panic and chaos. But we are far from political speculation, but the people must know the truth and be prepared for trials. Last year, the socialists warned of the bread problem, they did not listen to us, people listened to stories of high yields, while they were looted under the roof of power. Now it turns out there's no bread. I'm done. The authorities must be aware that it is a crime to hide real threats from their citizens and the world, and the possibility of avoiding them cannot be avoided. Only the strict responsibility of authority to the people, and what is possible only in changing the system of authority, full and honest information on the extent of threat and deterrence, the mobilization of resources and reserves can save the people from the new catastrophe. Metronome. I'm finishing up, in front of a threat. Ukrainian Socialists are calling for national unity and unity. The disaster can be prevented by halting the dissolution of the state, establishing fair partnerships with the world and by all the power of Ukraine to drive an excited atom beast into a new, built-up science, shelter. Postponing this for Ukraine is tantamount to death.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u14	Vladimir Lechchenko has the word of a Communist faction. Prepare Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u15	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! On June 8, an interim election of the Ukrainian national deputy took place in Chernigov. First, according to the minutes of the electoral commissions, a representative of the Bank’s Banking Capital from Kharkiv was previously unknown in Montenegro. That's exactly what the bourgeois authorities were betting on. Thus, there were no limits to outright lawlessness. From the very beginning, the management of the administration and the miscivonics became available to the monetary candidate. The guidelines were given to the heads of state institutions, businesses, and organizations, and other structures. Right here was the mass recruitment of agitators, who voluntarily were forced to make a little bit of money. These people have Circulated many of the electorate’s homes. They recorded all those who wanted to vote for money, for an elite candidate. They copied, or they took, passports. The candidate himself performed several free concerts of famous artists at the local stadium. On May Day, the nuns enjoyed a free trip to the city. It was not without gifts, free vodka, and shorts. The advertisements were filled with all the available television broadcasters. The size was also felt in the distribution of luxury printed products. Long before the official Black people's agitation began, huge agitation shields, called the "Ukrainian word", were directly flooded. An unbiased campaign cost several million units, perhaps Ukrainians, as well. Compared to them, a $170,000 electoral fund is permitted by law. The bracelet looks pathetic. And it all came out of hand. The abuse of Ukrainian democracy continued to be the vote of students, soldiers, prisoners. I spoke in my session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in May of this year, requesting the Attorney General to intervene and stop lawlessness. The same requirements were applied to the managers of the district branch office and the district prosecutor's office - no response or infringements were detected. Conclusions: (1) The executive has once again confirmed its frank disregard for Ukrainian legislation; (2) There is no distribution of branches of authority, no single branch of judicial authority in Ukraine; ( 3) Our common people will live badly until they allow themselves to be deceived by the passersby; ( 4) Only Communists can provide a life worth living for the Ukrainian people. The situation in politics is the same in the economy. A particularly difficult situation in the country. We stand on the brink of hunger. The grain roll is predicted to be below the level of 1932-33, cutting off cattle. This is not the result of weather conditions, this is the result of disastrous reforms by anti-national authorities. They're going to bring up prices for products. By the way, the Communists were the first to take the initiative in a moratorium on bread - making products. We believe that consistent national policies, the real support of a domestic producer, subsidies, cheap loans, landscaping, land fertility measures, plant and animal selection, and the development of domestic machinery are needed in relation to the village. By no means will trade in the land be allowed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u16	Thank you. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik of the faction "Our Ukraine." Prepare Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u17	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The "Our Ukraine" faction wants to draw attention to the need for urgent regulation of the problem affecting tens of thousands of Ukrainian citizens. This is why the faction "Our Ukraine" comes from all regions of Ukraine. This is about eliminating discrimination in the pension provision of science and technology workers. Thousands of workers who have been assigned a pension under the Science and Technology Act have been suspended today. Part of the workers were not assigned at all. The issue here is the discriminatory norm by which separate sources of pensions are paid. Workers in nonstate enterprises are the cost of these organizations. For other workers, they're pension funds. But the citizens of Ukraine are not to blame for the fact that the organizations in which they worked became unstated. As early as last year, Parliament adopted in its first reading changes to the Science and Technology Act, these changes remove existing discriminatory norms. The "Our Ukraine" faction insists that this law be considered in a second reading this week. Such a project was prepared by a committee. Please support him by voting on Thursday.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u18	Oleg Zarubinsky of the faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u19	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Many Ukrainian citizens express concern about the following changes in the rules of movement across the state border with the Russian Federation. These include the introduction of mandatory foreign passports to cross the border with Russia. This is explained by the need to strengthen the border regime and to strengthen the fight against international terrorism and illegal migration. At one of the press conferences, the Prime Minister did not rule out that since January 1, 2004, foreign passports may indeed be needed to travel to the Russian Federation by Ukrainian citizens. Needless to say, our fellow citizens take such information negatively, they are not without reason, they should be told, they are afraid that innovations can seriously complicate the practice of visiting a neighbouring country with professional, neighborly, and other motives. In doing so, they may suffer precisely, and I would like to stress this, the law-abiding citizens of both countries, which of course is inconvenient to either Ukraine or Russia. Moreover, the foreign services will divert forces from intensifying the travel regime of this particular category of citizens, while violators, including illegal migrants and criminal criminals, will continue to travel along the border and so - called courier routes. By giving due credit to all the positive things that have been done recently in the setting of order on our borders, we consider it appropriate to draw attention to this, as we believe, serious problem in order to prevent undesirable consequences. And one more moment, another problem. As we have learned, Ukrainian citizens living in the Russian Federation face serious difficulties in shaping Ukrainian citizenship. Since there is only one nationality in Ukraine of bilateral inter-State agreements on dual citizenship, our country, like most states, does not practice. Thus, the Ukrainian Nationality Act, as one of the conditions for admission to Ukrainian citizenship, provides for the refusal of citizenship of other countries, or foreign citizenship. It's with documentation of the exit from Russian citizenship that we have problems with our fellow countrymen. The competent authorities on citizenship and migration of the Russian Federation in places under various circumstances make it difficult to follow this internal procedure with regard to persons who claim to be willing to acquire Ukrainian citizenship. In the course of the Ukrainian-Russian consultations on consular issues held in November 2002 in response to the Ukrainian side's next proposal, consideration should be given to the possibility of making an appropriate agreement, the representatives of the Russian delegation, to be given jurisdiction, to confirm their willingness to draft the Ukrainian draft agreement with interested central executive authorities. However, the text of the draft agreement has not yet been reconciled by the Russian side. I think it's a question that concerns our fellow countrymen, our fellow citizens, and it has to be put in perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u20	The statements according to requests from factions and parliamentary groups have been completed. I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate letters and assignments from the issues raised. Let us turn to Tuesday’s schedule of meetings. The draft Law approving the National Programme for the Development of Ukraine's Mineral and Raw Base for the period up to 2010 is being announced for consideration. Rapporteur, State Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Sergey Volodymyrovich Goszowski. The focal point will be the chairman of the committee. This rule is suggested: for the reporter, up to 5 minutes, 5 minutes, the answer to the questions, the same for the reporter and the discussion over 15-20 minutes. Is there no objection? Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u21	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's public programme for the development of a mineral raw materials base by 2010 has been developed by the Ministry of Natural Resources Ecology, together with the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, the Ministry of Economics and the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, to implement the Ukrainian Cabinet Decision of 9 March 1999 No. 338 on the concept of an increase in the mineral and raw materials base as a basis for stabilizing Ukraine's economy by 2010. The aim of the Programme is to develop a strategy and action plan aimed at reducing Ukraine's dependence on imports that are deficient to the national mineral economy. The program takes into account the needs of the leading sectors of the Ukrainian national economy. The program takes into account the main postulates of the Ukrainian Oil and Gas Programmes, the comprehensive nuclear fuel generation programmes, the Ukrainian Color Metallurgy Programme until 2010, the National Energy Programme by 2010 and the National Mining and Metallurgical Development Programme of Ukraine. In general, overcoming a crisis in the economy based on its structural reconstruction can only be done in strict terms based on the resources of the state, and an extremely important point in this regard is the effective and rational use of the domestic mineral and raw materials base. Ukraine’s state fossil balance includes some 8,000 deposits of 97 types of mineral raw materials. According to stockpiles of some types of raw materials, Ukraine has leading positions among countries of SND, Europe, and the world. By taking up 0.4 percent of the world’s land with 0.8 percent of the world’s population, Ukraine provided 5 percent of the world’s mineral production in the early 1990s. More than a third of Ukraine's export sales have benefited from mineral raw materials, the cost of the surveyed reserves per capita is about $150,000, and the estimate of Western stocks is over $200,000. Today, however, the pace and scale of the construction of its own mineral and raw base do not meet the needs of the state. Case analysis and estimates indicate that the situation may get worse in the near future. In recent years, the real potential for further increase in the supply of hydrocarbons, the discovery and exploration of new fossil deposits for Ukraine, such as gold, chromium, copper, lead, zinc, molybdenum, rare, and rare earth elements, has been confirmed. In general, the implementation of measures will increase the export potential of the mineral and raw materials complex by 1.5-2 times, reduce the import of non-carbon mineral raw materials by 60-70 percent, and achieve an annual economy of $6 billion. Taking into account global trends and, above all, the needs of the domestic industry, the program foresees the following under the structural reconstruction of Ukraine’s economy. First. The discovery and exploration of new fossil fuels. The other one. Improving the mineral and raw base of Ukrainian mining and mining enterprises. With a view to improving economic efficiency and the environmental frequency of their production. Third. The deadline for making its own production of highly defective mineral raw materials. Four. The development of its own mineral raw material base of the most important strategic species of beneficial fossils, gold, and other precious metals. The implementation of the programme's actions and its technical and scientific support will allow for the financial and economic stability of active mining enterprises and the gradual increase in their use. The program should be carried out according to our design, national geological enterprises of the national geological service, national stock companies, and other forms of ownership, at the expense of nonstate investment, are regulated by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u22	Is there a question for the Secretary of State? Please sign up - 5 minutes. On the board, please explain. Ivan Mihovich. The Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u23	The Communist faction, the Carpathians. Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich! Please tell me if there is a mechanism for monitoring the rational use of particularly mineral water in the Carpathian and other areas where there are so many disadvantages and violations today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u24	The program does not separate mineral water Carpathians at the same time the program provides for increased control over the rational use of all useful fossils that are inspected and extracted in Ukraine, and mineral waters are included. So today we have the issue of increasing responsibility for unsanctioned mining and not rational use in the administrative code. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u25	Basil Calinchuk, please, the faction of the Ukrainian agrarian party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u26	Thank you. Clothing, faction of the Ukrainian agrarian party. Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich, of course, the development of the mineral raw materials base is an important factor in the exit of the Ukrainian economy from crisis. But does the adoption of this program agree with the separate legal provisions of article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 15 of the Ukrainian Act on State Forecasting and Development of Ukraine's Economic and Social Development Programmes? After all, the Supreme Council approves the Cabinet of Ministers’ programmes for only one year according to these provisions. So why isn't the Cabinet of Ministers going to approve the program itself in the development of that state-wide program? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u27	The state-wide programme for the development of Ukraine's mineral raw material base is one of the basis for recovery and economic recovery. As development issues are, first of all, long-term issues, and in one year they simply cannot be realized, but they can be understood that we will have at the end of the line. This program is therefore proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council. As for the individual fossils needed to produce the agricultural sector, it covers to a full extent the needs of the village for the main useful mines. These are the ones that give us the opportunity, the whole complex, like mineral fertilizers to produce in Ukraine, and not traditional ones, let's say, like soprapels. But this goes among the 12 separate useful fossils that we're going to explore as satellites, and we're going to rely 80 percent on investors in this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u28	Ludmila Suprun, faction of the Ukrainian People's Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u29	The faction of the People's Democratic Party. Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich! I have a question. Please tell me this program you're proposing is actually focused on one mechanism -- spending as much money as you can. Unfortunately, though, this program does not foresee how the state will receive money for the natural resources used. This isn't about effectively setting up a rent, it's about what's called a tax on fossil mining, it's about a system of shaping and distributing these natural resources among users, because it's going to happen as it did in previous years -- we're already investing billions of dollars in the development of a mineral raw material base. After that, the state's money is transferred along with the developed genealogies to individual companies, which, in fact, nothing, except to work for their own profit, is done for the state. So this program becomes a cost mechanism, and we need to think about how to save our natural fossils and reduce resource dependence and get revenue into the budget. I'm sorry. this application does not meet these criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u30	Thank you for asking, Sophia Pavlovna. The program presented for your consideration today consists of its part of the implementation of two stages: the first stage is already started, and the year that has passed is essentially part of the execution of it, it is fully executed. What is involved in the distribution of funding? 34 percent goes to today, that's investment, and 60 percent of the government budget. The second stage is planned for 18 percent of the budget and 80 percent of the investment. With regard to the uncontrollable transfer of mining. It's a little bit out of date, because useful fossils that are extracted by non-state forms of property or by non-national companies make up less Two percent. With regard to the mechanism for meeting the costs of the state, well, the world has come up with no better than the payment of the GR, the rent, so we need to work together with you to determine at what stage, at which point the compensation will be given to the State. With regard to the growth of the state’s income, this is reflected in the program. And if we spend $17.9 billion on the entire program, 6 billion. We should get it every year. This is when this program is implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u31	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich, please sit down. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Gennady Borisovich Rudenko. Please, Gennady Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I'll probably make a brief statement to leave more time for questions and answers and for discussion. There is no secret to anyone that drug use is one of the most problematic and interesting sectors in Ukraine. And in many beneficial mines, Ukraine actually has a leading situation in the world. So you need the potential that the country's experts claim, and the foreign, from 7 to 10 trillion dollars, in the end, gradually show them in the budget, gradually grow our base. Unfortunately, in part of the Soviet Union, a lot of money was invested in a mineral raw material base, and today our joint task is to adopt programs that allow for rational and efficient use of national acquisitions. We have every opportunity to do that. About what Sergey Volodymyrovich said today and said by individual colleagues, there are really questions related to the priority of the program. There are questions about what previously hindered our potential to turn money into money. Unfortunately, we focused mainly on such, already standard positions -- oil, gas, some solid mines. I don't think there's any carbon in this program, but there's little methane in this program. But it is said that the ball must be moved from the side of the Cabinet of Ministers to the Supreme Council. I think that we have enough experts, enough experts on the mineral and raw base on the Committee and on the Supreme Council in particular, so, dear colleagues, we have a lot of insight and expertise, and on the part of the Committee on Fuel and Energy and Industrial Policy, and we also have a lot of observations on the Committee on Environmental Policy and Drug Use, but we have accepted and proposed that we send letters to all other committees to support the proposed bill and take the ball away from the Supreme Council and work together. We've discovered those differences, those claims that came to us from different experts, and there's already an opportunity to develop and work out a normal model that would satisfy us in the Supreme Council. And what matters a lot to the program, by the way, is that almost a year ago, this project, let's say, is walking, but it's needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u33	Please sign up for a question to the Head of the Committee. On the board, please explain. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u34	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Vladimir Mikhailovich, before you ask a question to the co-conspirator, I'd like to address you. This is a serious matter, like all of us in the Supreme Council. Five minutes for a question to the Secretary of State. Three deputies asked questions, and is that a question? At least 10 to 15 minutes, or they'll shorten their time and shorten our lives. Not to us, to our people in Ukraine. So I'm going to say, does the committee have any information about what there are mines, there are wells that have been working for ten years, and there's oil production in order to study the composition. And from there the wagons, let's go to the Visnicke district of the village of Lopushna, where cars are loaded with oil every day and sent to the study lab for the last ten years. And there's no legislative definition of how many years it takes. And that's how they're going to take us all out, sell us out, and we're just going to stay on a burned ground like this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleague! The point is, the committee knows this information. And the committee has repeatedly addressed both the law enforcement agencies and the Cabinet of Ministers on this matter. About the terms. They are defined, but unfortunately in many cases they are violated. Geological research is from 3 to 5 years old. Regrettably, there are times when after 15 years, something is being researched. So when the Committee looked at the Development Programme by 2010, it said, "We support the alternative as a basis, but under the conditions of reform." Because these examples, when, really, let's face it, come back, we have to stop them. This requires reform, and reform needs to be done in the walls of the Supreme Council. That's why I'm also proposing to my colleagues to back up on the ground, and I'm already in the walls of the Supreme Council to finalize the bill. First. Develop a normal order of licensing, not one that works today. It's just a terrible situation in a civilized country to have this order. Next. Work the model of normal rent policy. Because what happened today at the adoption of the Budget Act, which will raise the rent, is another way to, let's say, freeze the domestic output. You couldn't take on the Russian analogy, let's say, the rent policy had its own Ukrainian rent model. You couldn't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u36	Vechaslav Anisimov, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u37	Anisimov, 30 constituency, town of Dneprodžinsk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear Gennady Borisovich! I would like to hear from you how the Programme reflects the secondary processing of raw materials that has accumulated over the years of industrial enterprises in our country, millions of tons of raw materials, which are not much different from what is being extracted in our country and which is now heavy on landfills, landfills and so on?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. The program predicts waste work, so we call it, although in many cases it's not waste, it's really a very good breed. And the only thing that doesn't satisfy us is the lack of priority, once again we give priority to Naftogaz, although I repeat, very many issues related to coal, methane and, let's just say, secondary processing products, and the committee, I'm saying that by taking this as a basis, by offering to take this as a base, it meant, including further processing. Today’s situation does not satisfy us, nor does what is written in the program. Although, I repeat, this item is foreseen in the program.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u39	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u40	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorov, Zovkva, Rava-Ruska, Lvivščina and Our Ukraine. Dear reporter! Your committee is called -- the second part of it -- the "clearance of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster." Well, I think it's not serious to eliminate the consequences of a disaster. Obviously, we need to talk about minimizing or adapting our nation to the consequences of Chernobyl. Yes, I have a question for you. Today it has been said that the whole of Ukraine has heard a great deal of anxiety from Alexander Frost's mouth and I think that you, as chairman of the committee, would have had to either calm down or tell the truth that you know about this. And my second question to you is this. All these years of independence we've been talking about, we have our own oil, we have our own gas. I even know a national deputy who is now in office who suggested to the first official: "Give me all these wells that are in Ukraine, in two years, Ukraine will be completely independent of Russia by gas." But he was told that it was very unapproachable for many people. It is much more convenient to buy than to develop one’s own. What do you think about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u41	Thank you. Mr. Yavorowski, I'll start with a second question. I have to assure you that if we gave it all to one or two people, we wouldn't be able to provide our own energy potential in a few years. This is ridiculous. This is the first time. Because investing in the oil and gas sector is, first of all, a profitable part of course, but not as optimistic a situation in Ukraine as many would like. So let's say yes, I want to convince you that we really need to focus on those mines where we really have priority, where we have some leadership positions. It's definitely not naphthagas. And naphthegaza is now developing calmly within what is possible today. But I repeat, this profitable policy that is set up today, it does not allow those low-income wells where there is potential to transform the profitable mechanism so that investors can come to us. With this kind of rent policy, the investors won't come to us. So the first question about the Chernobyl situation, on behalf of the committee, I can say that we were personally at the station, and I can say that the situation is what it was for 10 to 15 years is stable. It's stable, it's not worse, it's not better. So what we've recently accepted is we've removed the problem of financing the Hidden Object, which allows me to wait for the psychological situation of our population to improve when there's another object above it. Although I realize that this is not a radical solution to the problem. This problem -- Chernobyl -- is going to be with us for tens, hundreds of years, and you know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u42	Thank you. Sergey Borisovich, please sit down. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you a question or a request from the People's Deputy Melniczuk to inform you that we have 20 questions planned for our consideration today. We've been working on this issue for 45 minutes, and we've been discussing it for 25 minutes. If we make a deal that we're going to work until we finish all the questions on schedule, let's make more time, or else we won't be able to do anything. And we've got 45 minutes and we've got a rule. Let's move on to the discussion. Please state the name of the national MPs who have signed up for the discussion. We have 18 minutes to discuss. Yuri Karmazin, please prepare Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u43	Party of protectors of the country, solidarity of our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies, the suffering Ukrainian people, today we are really considering a very big and important issue because we live in one of the richest countries. I am grateful to the government, at least, for Anatoly Kinach’s program, as early as June 5, 2002. But somehow there was a turn for her just here today, in the Supreme Council, sadly. If we need to, we are looking very late. It's about being introduced. This programme aims to develop a strategy for a plan of action aimed at reducing Ukraine's dependence on low-income imports, for the national economy, for the mineral raw material that strengthens the country's export potential based on the domestic beneficial fossils that have great demand in the world market. And it's not in vain that Vladimir Yavorowski was here today asking questions about gas. He's absolutely right, because he studied his time in Odessa, and Odessa scientists have long offered the technology of mining and, in particular, gas in such quantities that it would be enough to export even to the Russian Federation from what we have in the Black Sea. What? It's all blocked out. And here in the program this chapter was completely out of date, they forgot about the acquisition of Ukrainian scientists, particularly from Odessa. In 1990-1991, I remind you that in those years that are now heavily laundered, the mineral and raw material complex provided 25 percent of the gross national product, and today it could also allow us to raise the manufacturing industry and allow us to become a strong state. There's a lot of positiveness in this program, here and with all the useful fossils, as planned, I'm very sorry that we're still not working or developing vanadium. I am very sorry that both Titan and lithium do not make the profits that they were to make for Ukraine. I would like to pay attention to Ukraine's technological heritage, which unfortunately there are today. And to solve the environmental problems that can be solved when the land is liberated at 200,000. Ha, which is now under the rubble of wealth and waste. And those things where the struggle in the Zaporozhye area for waste is going on, and that's where the armed struggle is going. That's where we keep up to 25 billion. tons of useful fossils that can be of industrial importance. I'm going to ask you to support this program in the first reading, to work on it, because it has flaws, and I didn't want to deliberately stop at them and then develop Ukraine like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u44	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Prepare Crucius.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u45	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. From the information received, we see what kind of gold is available to Ukraine, but for some reason, since 98, the State has virtually stopped financing geological works in this direction. By decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the involvement of foreign investors in the implementation of the “Gold” programme and on the establishment of a State-owned shareholder company, Ukrazoloto, since 1 January 97, the state budget funding for exploration of gold mining assets has been completely suspended. Today, we can again write off anti-State actions against the Lazarenko Government, which was running low, and he wanted to clean up the gold. But after Lazarenko was replaced by three more governments, and the train is now there. No work is currently being done at the facilities. At the "Balka Wide" site, the shaft is six metres in diameter to a depth of 168.4 metres. Project depth is 450 meters, the barrel is warmed. At the Mayan site, the mine trunk and the mine yard at a depth of 120 metres are also flooded. The laboratory base and drilling equipment for the preparation of the promsolot were virtually indisposed. Experienced highly skilled personnel have been reduced in search and exploration of geology, geophysics, technology and so on. To date, the Golden Ukraine Programme has been successfully and deliberately destroyed. In my view, this is a clear anti-State position that is being pursued by the leaders of Ukraine, who are being manipulated by foreign puppeteers. At the height of his activities, as Prime Minister, Valerius Pavlovich Pavlovytenko returned from abroad once said, "Nobody needs us as a strong State, they see Ukraine as a commodity of the EU." In this regard, we wonder when we will abandon the assistance of foreign advisers and those who meet their demands today. What has a mineral and raw material base in Ukraine does not have all Western Europe taken together. And the task here is to clearly prevent Ukraine from entering the world market, and they are successfully implementing it with the help of our sorry leaders. To the correct situation, the Government of Ukraine and the experts of Mineecology on programme implementation, exploration and extraction of noble and rare-earth metals and strategic raw materials should be heard in a closed meeting of the Supreme Council. Similarly, law enforcement authorities, headed by the Attorney-General's Office, should be given the most thorough understanding of what the State's closed stock campaign Ukrainian Polymetallics was doing, which was handed over in 1998 to 5 gold sites to finance exploration, but the company did not put virtually no money into the implementation of the “Golden Ukraine” programme. Why no one is punished for this, why Minister Shevchuk is released from office for six months for improper licensing, and officials of the Ministry and the Government of Ukraine are responsible for the campaign for the implementation of the Golden Ukraine Programme for anti-State, anti-national policy in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u46	Mikola Krutz, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u47	Nicholas Crutz. The "Our Ukraine" faction, the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. Deputies! A mineral raw materials base is a defining component of production, and it depends on what we produce and how we produce in Ukraine. Another important factor in production is the efficiency of the use of resources available in Ukraine, in other words, of what resources we own and how best we manage them. In view of this project being submitted to Parliament, it is certainly a positive development. What is more, the project attempts to address the problem of developing a mineral and raw base in Ukraine in a comprehensive manner. This program, apart from the actual production, has a political significance. Because the rational use of those resources that we have and, in some cases, the increase in them is due to the exploration of crops, industrial development, and so on, it reduces our nation's dependence on imports of certain types of raw materials. Now a few basic comments on the content of the program itself. As we know, a state-wide program of its own must be a document of a conceptual plan. And the concept, in turn, is primarily the main directions for the development of the sector and its priorities. So in the project entitled "The Priorities for the Development of Ukraine's Mineral and Raw Base" there are no definitions for the next seven years. In such a situation, those programs that have a specific meaning lose some meaning. Because the specifics without the conceptual principles of development of the program, in the software document, are not worth much. In my view, another disadvantage of the project is that it does not provide for clearly defined criteria for assessing the results of the actions envisaged. So it's going to be hard to figure out what we're actually going to achieve in this area, what we're going to do in this area, what we're going to be stockpiling, what we're going to be producing, what we're going to be producing, what we're going to be producing, and what we're going to be producing, and what we're going to be doing here. And in combination with a lack of definition of conceptual principles, this moment significantly reduces the quality of the proposed project. Policy documents of a normative nature and a defined draft, including not only should be based on existing legislation on relevant issues but should also be further developed. There's something missing from the last project. So its prognostic aspect in the development of legislation that regulates the relationship of the mineral and raw base is not enough. This must be corrected in order not to be the case recently with the minister of ecology. After all, it was not clear what caused him to be released from office. Breaking the rules of protection, what has been shown in the illegal extraction of useful fossils? Not the right legislative regulation for the development of nadr? Is there any other reason? As for me, the natural resources of our country must be treated more carefully and more carefully. So there's still a lot of work to be done on the project, and first of all, conceptually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u48	Andrew School has the word, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block, to prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u49	Ukrainian National Assembly, I'll add. Dear fellow national MPs, distinguished radio listeners. I would like to stress, first of all, that in principle such a program is necessary. We can only talk about improvements right now, add something to it or subtract it, but conceptually it's necessary. Because the mineral raw material base of Ukraine is really something that needs to be systematized. Because let's ask ourselves a question. So here we are, the higher legislature, asking ourselves a question, we can get an answer -- how much there is in Ukraine, what do we own? Has anyone done the analysis? Someone's been conducting a conceptual study of what we own and what we're protecting, what we're extracting and what the future generation might leave behind or what we're running out of and what we need to keep. In principle, then, we do not have the right to discuss the need or the need. We need to discuss only what we can do to improve the quality of this program. Next. We are constantly saying whether there is enough gas, oil, and other supplies in Ukraine to make it a strategic product. But it's never going to be a strategic product, and we don't need it. We just have to say that there has to be at least a certain diversification of energy supplies so that we can create, if we're buying something, energy supplies. That's what's important. And the second thing that's probably the most important thing about this issue is why does the Ministry of Ecology issue, specifically, licenses? What we've been talking about here is Minister Shevchuk. I think the Ministry of Ecology is supposed to be doing analysis, cooking, visa, but the licenses have to be issued by a special licensing authority, and then we'll be able to make clear whether it was corruption or not, or whether the officials didn't see if it was a special action. That's what's important right now. Because, when Minnecology is to do environmental conservation, how and when is it to do research and research on beneficial fossils? It's a little bit not the kind of thing that's connected. I think that here, in particular, is an important issue of the distribution of these powers so that there are no further similar allegations, because the Ministry of Ecology has to protect the environment, not control the production or not the production. And the last. I'd like to highlight the rent. If we raise rents, then West Ukraine loses practically everything, loses gas wells, oil wells, where Dashava and Borislav oil started, they're just going to die because they're going to be non-profitable, and a lot of people out there in the West are going to lose their jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u50	Mikhailo Melniczuk. Prepare Solomon. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u51	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Of course, the program will have to be supported, but it will have to be further developed. I would've changed it a little bit by calling it the "State Rescue Program for Ukraine's Mineral and Raw Base," because it really needs to be saved. We have the opportunity from this program to see the perspective that our Ukraine has. This is to increase the export of the mineral and raw materials complex by 1.5 to 2 times reduce imports by 60 to 70 percent of the mineral raw material that will cost the economy between $5 billion and $6 billion a year. And really, it is, and not to exploit our wealth we have no right. Both parliamentarians and the people of Ukraine. But just recently, knowing that this program is going to be discussed, I visited this village by insistence on the community of the village of Yavorov in the valley region of Ivano-Frankiv district. I want to draw the attention of both the Secretary of State and the Ministry of Ecology and extraordinary situations to look at this village. What I saw was terrifying. They're killing cattle. There's a river running by the village. It's not a river, it's oil. Total oil! 80 percent of the water is oil. The forests, pastures, and wildlife are drying up around the villages. And it's not just, as it were, my conclusions. These are the findings of the environmental service that operates in the region of Ivano-Frankow. These are the findings of the Security Service, where the inhabitants of the village of Jabor came from. And that bill, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, which was due to pass, bill 2120 on the alienation of land, is absolutely necessary here in the hall. The 430 acres [430 ha] of Naftogaz Valley has been using it for 10 years, paying no money to the rural community. That's why I'd like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State, the committee of profile. Ladies and gentlemen! Notice the catastrophe that is now in the Yavor district of Ivano-Frankiv. I've already asked the right questions, but I'm pointing out that there's a huge catastrophe. The village is surrounded by oil, people are sick, and oil is also found in wells. By the way, we need to extract it already. It may be enough for peasants to gather incomprehensible grains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u52	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u53	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to remind you of the recent Presidential Decree of 6 June 2003 on urgent measures to increase the efficiency of drug use in Ukraine. The first item is, "Condemn the unsatisfying exercise of state administration in the use of nards," and then there's a list of what's unsatisfying. There's nothing in this decree about what would be supported and declared satisfactory, starting with licensing through a product distribution agreement and so on and so forth. And who among you has watched the President's speech on television, has noted his indignation at what has been taken from Ukraine's independent years of 40 billion dollars, and only 1 billion of what has been taken into the budget. That's what it is-- drug use! So what we're saying is, this is how the urea is going to be the result of the fact that the stateless is absolute. And the program that we've been given for consideration is one way to sort things out a little bit. Trouble. First of all, the problem is that those who are licensed for drug use are corporate owners of what is at stake, they're not interested in what the state needs at all. In general, the State needs to know the state of the study of nadir throughout the state and in general throughout the marine shelf. Only the State Geological Service can do this at the expense of the state budget. It's always been that way. And I want to remind those who forgot about it. Back in those days, called Soviets, geotransversions were made from the Horn of Curve and even to the Sakhalin, when separate drilling wells were drilled with research objectives at a depth of 10 to 12 kilometers. We have to look at the top and the biggest depths that the owner will go for this, for this kind of research. So to ensure that the activities of the State Geological Service are properly funded by the approval of this programme, this is question number one. What do we have? The State Geological Service is submitting a draft budget of $300 million. For a year, the pitiful amount is absolutely. It's reduced to 200, and then it's going to be 250 million grand under the collar. And at the same time, the Crushing owes it back, for a total of 350 million dollars in geological exploration work. Although the salary in the Crushing industry is about $1,200. For a month. And the geologists of the state service in the 1950s. Here's the deal. Thank you for your attention. Let's take all the bills, and then we'll figure it out. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u54	The word is given to the Hare John Alexanderovich and we are done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u55	Dear National Deputies! Ukrainian People's Party, faction of Ukraine. The way to make use of it is to guide it, and as quickly as possible, the better for the Ukrainian people. That is why the program needs to be taken as a basis, and it needs to be carefully worked out. I want to draw your attention to one of the most important conditions in this program. It's for the organization of the public administration system by drug use, which is actually being circumvented in this program and it's not there. What do I mean? I mean, recently there was a meeting of the National Security and Defence Council that decided to release Minister Shevchuk and a whole series of leaders from the geological field. Similarly, the President's decree to dismember the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources was adopted. Now it's proposed to create the Ministry of Ecology, probably with some microinspective functions, give the portfolio to an empty minister and let him walk and play these games. And the part of the Ministry that deals with drug use should be allocated to the State Committee on Natural Resources. At a time when European tradition guides us to run state administration at the level of the Ministry, we have reverse processes. In 99th year, the President issued a decree and created the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources, by which he strengthened the authority to regulate drug use. Today, instead of bringing the matter to its end, the decision is taken to completely eliminate this work under the root that has been done for two years. And now they say we're going to regulate drug use at the level of the State Committee. Dear friends, I highly doubt that such a government system will allow us to implement this program, because the ministerial level is much higher. The minister is a member of the Cabinet of Ministers. Natural exploitation is an important component of public policy in general today. So that decision that was taken by the National Security Council and imposed by the President's decree is a decision that is aimed at fully destabilizing the situation in Ukraine's mineral and raw materials complex. This is a strikebreaker decision, a decision that aims to destroy Ukraine's prospects today. So, dear friends, we have to take this program, but at the same time, we have to decide that state regulation has been raised to the level of the Ministry. This decision is made only to allow a group of people to access the naphtha so that they can have licenses in their hands today so that they can have access to some kind of source of oil and gas. That's all that's dictated. We cannot, as national deputies, agree with this decision. We have to say that we need to create a full Ministry of Natural Resources where government regulation will be implemented on the principles of integrated management of all resources -- land, water, nadrama and forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, we're done here, we're running out of time. Please, from Alexander Baranowski's procedure. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u57	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine What the program needs to be accepted, but it should be strengthened for its execution. The point is that today, a raw base is being stretched, let's say, through the wells at the expense of the budget, oil, gas are being transferred to commercial structures, not bought, but transferred and exploited. Examples are not limited to wells. They're transferred into private hands, for example, in Zitomirsk, Gabr, Labrador, and various granites, and today they're all surrounded by these careers, there's nothing to fence in the cemetery, and no one's paying anything, no one's controlling them at all. And one more thing. There are now in Žitomirščina, in the Voddarsk-Wollin region, former companies called the Westwarts, there were harvesters, topazs, peesochwarts. So today it's a black market ransom, thousands of people shovel it all, so it's all being resold, and there's nothing for the state to do with it. So until we have a ministry, dear friends, to develop a mineral and raw base that has certain powers, we're not going to put order there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed, we will make a decision in accordance with the Rules. A draft of the Single Social Tax Act is being announced for consideration. Reporter - National Deputy of Ukraine Ludmila Fedorovna Kirichenko, please. And the co-reporter will be Hometic Vitaly Yuriovich. The committee proposes this rule: for the reporter, up to five minutes, the answers to the questions are the same as for the co-rapporteur. For 15 minutes, we will have a discussion. Is that 35? Well, then we'll have a discussion for 20 minutes, let's have 25 minutes. Dear colleagues, according to the offer, you do not support it. I would then like to discuss the matter for 45 minutes in accordance with the Rules. And if there are others, shall we vote? Forty-five? It's a deal. 25 minutes to talk. 20 for the report and the report together. Please, Sophia Fedorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u59	Kirichenko, 108th constituency, Lugansk region. Dear colleagues, I submit to you a bill on a single social tax, as it is registered under number 2122. The bill before you has several objectives. First. Creating conditions to raise wages and withdraw them from the shadows at the same time. Second. Reduction of the workload of the payroll fund, taking into account the workload of the pension fund Third. Simplification of the mechanism for payment of social payments and reduction of administrative costs. You all know that on 22 May, we passed the Income Tax Act, which provided for a substantial reduction in the tax rate. We have thus taken an interest in the legalization of wages. But the effect expected of lowering the income tax rate will not be achieved unless we are interested in raising wages for our employees and reducing the so-called pay in envelopes. This requires the simultaneous entry into force of the Income Tax Act, the Business Income Tax, and the reduction of the burden on the pay fund in the project that we have proposed contains several fundamental innovations. The project provides for the integration of three social payments. Pension insurance, temporary disability social insurance and unemployment insurance for one social contribution. Enterprises have a single payment to the social account, with a single accrual base, a single declaration, and a single account. The fragmentation of payments under the relevant social funds is done automatically. By an algorithm established by the State. This will greatly simplify the business accounts, the collection mechanism, reporting and facilitate the reimbursement of social security funds. The proposed solution and the main problems are the reduction of the burden on the payroll fund, which will increase the interest of enterprises in wage growth and withdrawal from the shadows. The project provides for the reduction of the consolidated payment from 37 per cent of the current to 25 per cent. But only in cases where wages are paid at a minimum level. This is definitely decreasing, while reducing the risk of shortfalls in pension and social funds. As deductions from wages below the minimum set remain at the current level. For example, the current subsistence minimum for the working population of Ukraine is 380 bracelets. At the same time, according to 2001 figures, some 80 workers receive wages up to 300 bracelets. It is clear to everyone that these figures are official but far from real. In part, especially in small and medium-sized businesses, most wages are paid in envelopes. Business managers do not wish or are unable to raise them due to large fees to the pay fund. In our 2001 calculation of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, it was shown that an additional 52 million grivens would be added to the funds if the average wage was increased by only 6 grivens. It is clear that the proposed reduced rate should also be confirmed by the corresponding estimates of 2002. Here, of course, I hope for the close cooperation of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, which is the only one who can give us a basis for calculation. I'd like to conclude. The bill has been discussed on several occasions in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, the Pension Fund of Ukraine. The social contribution mechanism has been tested in a number of industrial enterprises. I ask you to support the proposed bill on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u60	The questions will come to you, Ludmila Fedorovna. If you have any questions, please sign in. On the board, please explain. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u61	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter! In principle, you could theoretically support your idea, but how to deal with the principle of social justice, for you have seen that if the amount of income is less than the minimum of living, 37 percent of the object is paid. It's from the poorest people. If it exceeds its size, 25 percent. Tell me, please, what can I say to those people who today, of course, have less than two thirds of Ukraine's living minimum. What I'm going to say is that they're going to have 12 percent more leverage, that's the first. And secondly, how do you think that might be a tax if it's against the Constitution? Maybe we need to change the name of the law, change some more conceptual things. You've changed the law three times. I've studied all three of your suggestions. In exchange, it was given in exchange, and it was taken and not changed. Say, please, I'd like to know the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u62	I'll answer the last question, if I may. Yeah, you're right, in fact, the bill is better called "the single social contribution", the contribution. And that's what we're talking about: a single social contribution. This. But we can change it only after we've accepted it on first reading, you know that. Further, what we say is that we insult the low. low-paying segments of the population. In my view, the law serves to do so and will be adopted in order to raise the wages of employers and to increase, so to speak, the subsistence minimum of our social, so to speak, to unsecured citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u63	Yes, Basil Gavriluk, People's Landing Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u64	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please give the word to my colleague Masters.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u65	People's Deputy Masters.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u66	National Deputy Masterskin, District No.14, faction of "Ukraine". Sophia Fedorovna, please tell me why there is a certain half of the decision in this law. What do I mean? Today, when we talk about what -- and this is evident from your law -- that we're making a certain payment only on one account, but we're not, let's say, taking away the abuses that are in the funds today. And why don't we make one fund today, why we're leaving again. We're about halfway there. That's my first question. And the second. I'm going to be today, and I think I'm going to be proposing a system of maybe a card system. So every person has a card and this card has all their contributions to one fund or another, and they could have some motivation for saving these funds. What is happening today? What's going on here is that I'm contributing to this fund, but I'm not interested in the economy of these funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u67	Vladimir Yakovlevich, I fully agree with you and your proposal. Yes, it is, in fact, reasonable, and we have discussed this issue with you, and how we understand what we are talking about. The thing is, I'm still convinced that we're not ready to adopt that bill right now, that we're not ready, we don't have that base. Today we rely mainly on the Pension Fund. Although it's not enough to put it mildly, do you understand? Indeed, ideally and what we will propose next is the creation and adoption of a bill on a single register of personal data. And here on this base, when a single register and bill on a single personal data registry are actually being adopted, where every citizen will have all the information about where his money is coming from, how his money works, that's when it's actually happening. But I'm still talking about what we've accepted - we've already accepted! - Bills on a 13 per cent reduction in the income tax, reducing to 25 per cent the profits of enterprises. And we really need to adopt this particular bill as a phased one. Further refinement will in no way prevent further refinement.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u68	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear reporter! I'm, you know, Ukraine is a state that's used to making revolutions with lunch breaks. We say here: half the laws. I think, you know, when you go to the county, people shout out when it comes to social guarantees of any state. Any and social guarantees are also one of the guarantees of the state. That's why we need a revolution. If we're going to delay everything that we're going to create one database, then the second database is going to be created. Then believe that this will not speed up, but simply delay the process. I really agree with my previous colleague that we need to revolutionize legislation, I wanted us to propose here "revolutionary" laws that would change. Because there is grief and distress in us, which is going on with social protection, there is probably no one anywhere. So how much do you think this bill, the social protection of the population, will improve? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u70	You know, it's like we have different views here again. In my opinion, the revolution has never brought good. You know, it's destruction, it's destruction in any situation. And then creating a new one, it's always hard. That is why I would suggest such a course. And I think we have to do the most today, because what we put in our heads, we're putting a wage hike at the top of our heads. And that's the main goal, that's the main goal. And that is exactly what we are trying to achieve by this bill. Therefore, I am very much asking you to think and support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u71	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u72	The faction of Ukraine. Please pass the word to Vernigori, the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u73	Please, Vernigora.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u74	A socialist faction. Dear Ludmila Fedorovno! I first proposed a proposal from the procedure, to remove your bill as anti-constitutional. We have insurance in the Constitution, but we don't have social taxes. That's the first one. And I, Vladimir Mikhailovich, would like us not to work on the basket. We want to adopt the law first, and then we want to make changes to the Constitution. I would suggest that we do the opposite, first change in the Constitution, and then introduce a social tax that is not in nature at all and has no country, and has no Constitution. So I'd like to do it first. And the second. The worst you can do is get in the position of employers who are going to increase profits, increase our wages. What do you have in this law, depending on the increase in wages on the increase in profits? I don't understand the concept of your approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u75	Because we don't have a social tax, I completely agree with you, I already replied: yes, it is actually a social contribution, a single social contribution law. That's how we treat it in the future. Second question. You know, I'm thinking about what depends on pay on income, and I don't completely agree with you here. Why? Because today, once again, if we go back to how employers work today, we can't even talk to you about half. We don't have nearly as much wages as 150 bracelets. She's gone. Look, today we have a minimum pension of 185, right? So what? Picked up 185 and the rest in envelopes. Well, we're talking about stopping this kind of bad policy. What does it say about envelopes? That's what statistics say. When we read statistics carefully, statistics say that. And that's why we're still saying that let's take these legislative bases together to make it really easier for our average citizen to live in Ukraine. Easy. This can only be done through the adoption of a legislative framework.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u76	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Time's up. For my co-report, I invite the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking's work, Homutinnik Vitali Juryovich. Please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u77	Dear colleagues! There has been a great deal of talk recently about the need to reduce the tax press and the income of the people from the shadows. The question is, how can this be achieved, while at the same time maintaining revenue for budgets and trust funds? I think this is a matter of concern to all the people's deputies today. We have recently passed a law on income tax from citizens, which significantly reduces the income tax rate. This is certainly a positive law. However, by reducing the tax burden on the income of the natural person, 39.5 per cent of the remuneration fund paid by the employer remains. Therefore, in order to achieve the right effect, it is indeed necessary to look at the reduction of the tax burden on the wage fund and the introduction of mechanisms to stimulate wage growth with an automatic reduction in the accrual scale. We have made such a decision in the Committee. That in order for the income tax to work fully, we must, as of 1 January next year, pass the Single Social Tax Act or this contribution. With regard to the concept and ideology of the law, the Committee fully supports this approach. With respect to rates and scales, the rates will be reduced. Our view is that we should work more closely in preparing for second reading with all the committees involved in this matter. Also with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. With regard to administration, in our view, it is also a significant simplification of the administration of contributions and the consolidation of three pension funds. At least because the reports will be three times smaller and the authors have worked on these issues. With regard to workers, I do not think that there will be a reduction in workers in these funds, because the work in the funds is enough. For example, there has been a shortage of staff to improve the work on unemployment for the unemployment insurance fund to date. In our view, the majority of the bill's adoptions will be won by the employee. Because he will be able to benefit fully from social security services when he receives his wages legally. There are also pensions that depend on wage growth and temporary disability benefits: sick and much more. As far as the law is concerned about the shortcomings and what is missing, in our view, as I have already said, we will have to refine this law, work on second reading, but the approach itself is certainly necessary. This has also been sounded by the President and is supported by the Cabinet of Ministers. Because we should not take half-measures by taking down such income tax, we should automatically reduce the levy on the wage fund, especially since today calculations indicate that 80 per cent of the wages are at the borders of 300 and 92 per cent of the wages are at the edge of 92 per cent of all salaries per State. So this stimulus, it would stimulate the transition of this scale, three hundred or four hundred, five hundred bracelets, that we will be working with you already. Therefore, the Committee's decision is to support the first reading. And all the differences, all the issues that will arise among the people's deputies and in the committees of the public, will be further elaborated on second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u78	Yes, dear colleagues, questions, please. Let's sign up. Please, on the board. If you don't mind, let's not take a break to finalize this bill. Suprun Ludmila, faction of the Ukrainian People's Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u79	Ludmila Suprun, faction of the People's Democratic Party. Please tell us how your bill is handled by the executive authorities and the funds that now administer these processes regarding congregations, various insurance contributions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u80	The bill, the drafter of the bill has spoken and we are monitoring the implementation of the law as a sector committee. With regard to the positions of the Cabinet of Ministers and Ministries, ideology is supported. The funds had questions and the authors had redrafted the law three times and had taken into account every one of the proposals, opinions, comments and so on. To date, there are different opinions and questions. Therefore, I think that all these issues must indeed be read secondly through amendments, comments. And we must certainly take this to the fullest extent possible and in no way lose the level of income of the pension fund and other funds that exist today. That is, by introducing mechanisms, only those that would stimulate growth and increase and wages and contributions to the fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u81	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u82	Ginsburg, Communist faction, 161st constituency. Vitali Juryevich, I've been there a little bit, and I want to ask you this question. First. That's the question I'm having, and I can't get an answer. From the previous speaker, this was said to make our simple people better. And isn't there a system that the government is waiting for today to come to the rostrum to make simple people live better? And if this man doesn't go to the rostrum, he won't propose the law. Why does the Government that you support to become today not regulate these problems, which are common to ordinary people, including the minimum wage, and the pension that we are talking about now? And we, the Communist faction, understand that today's bill reduces some pressure on arrivals, leaves in the same situation the same businesses or the same individuals who have small incomes. What do you think you're up to? Here's a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u83	You know, we are the people's deputies and we are responsible for our actions and actions as actors in the legislative initiative. And what are we guided by instituting laws? Probably a responsibility to his constituents first. With regard to the Government's position, at the training stage, active ministries had already participated in order to ensure that the option was as harmonized as possible. To date, there is an agreement that if a people's MP makes any of the laws, the Government does not make an alternative. Therefore, there is no point in confusing today, but we simply need to refine a single version of the law and make it, indeed, a normal mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u84	Valerius Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear Vitalia Yuriovich! You know that neither the reporter nor you have convinced me of anything. And I'll tell you why. Because you have to stand here on the stand there were not words to speak, but numbers. First they count, reverend, and then they write laws, not the other way around. You wrote a law that applies to all Ukrainian pensioners without any calculation, I understand. You're lowering the bet from 37.5 to 25, you don't know which base to do it from, and you're already passing the law, and you're saying, let's do it in the first reading. Can you do such things, my friends? That's what you said today was a citizen's income tax. And what happened to the three billion gap today in the local budgets? Who would pay the teachers? The question remains. You're saying that under your law, you don't have to lower your pension. Oh, well, ask our pensioners. Are they satisfied with the current level of pensions? You're going to leave it or even reduce it. That's why I have a question for you. Where are the calculations? Give calculations first, then write laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u86	We are guided by the calculations that have been made to the committee, and so far out of the 21.5 million workers, 19.8 million are paid up to 500 grivens. Three million less than 300 bucks. That is, the edge that stands at 300-500 bracelets does not rise in any way. We understand that wage levels are different today and the level of income of the population. This indicates that most wages are in the shadow sector, and in such calculations under the current version proposed by the authors, there is indeed an increase in income to the various funds of about 2 billion. These are the calculations. However, once again, I repeat that these calculations are the same rate, and the level is going to be 300 or 400, or 500 bracelets, we will consider the second reading of the working group, together with Minfin, but today, I repeat, today these calculations are and they give us today the right to adopt this bill on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u87	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u88	Leonid Vernigore. Soccer. In view of what I am about to do, please pass on the word Vitalia Šibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u89	Vitaly Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u90	Thank you. Poorly, the Socialist faction of Ukraine. I want to support my colleague Assadchi here for the fact that there really is no calculation under this bill. And it makes sense, the logic of the former presidential decree you know, when he said, "Who today is going to say that he has deposits abroad is going to be an amnesty for a while. Tell me, please, how many times do you know that someone said that he had transferred money abroad and repented today? It's not there. Here you're putting the same "and if we do this, then everyone will pay on time" etc. That won't happen. I wish to address the Ukrainian citizens immediately and to say so. But I wanted to ask you a question. Today, the logic of this law is by the Liberal Party in order to translate the possibility of tax collection, not from entrepreneurs and rich people, but from the people themselves. Well, if you make that kind of logic, tell me, what's next in your wallet? For example, you provide in this logic a law on health insurance, etc. or not, or just this law, and then how will it be shown? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u91	With regard to logic, in the adoption of the law that we passed with you on income tax of 13 per cent before 2007, from 2007 15 per cent. We were guided by the fact that part of the coverage of local budget losses, as stated by colleague Assadchev, would be through the withdrawal of revenues from the shadows and the increase in wages. In order to do so, we will now take the second step, otherwise we will not achieve that effect. As for the rest of it, and what you're saying is, whether someone from abroad has transferred or not, I think it's unlikely that today someone will translate and translate until you and I pass the Amnesty Tax Act. And again, I think we should do it from next year. What will be the option: a parliamentary or governmental one; this is already our next phase of work, which the Committee will be working on to bring all these laws together in a single package and to introduce them since 1 January 2004.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u92	Thank you. Please sit down, Vitaly Yuriovich. What does the Cabinet of Ministers think about this? Natalia Ivanovna Ivanova, Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u93	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the government is as follows. First. The government supports the idea of combining functions with insurance funds in order to improve the effectiveness of their activities. And not only does it support the idea, but it also works on practical implementation, because two experiments are being carried out in Ukraine in three areas, and these experiments have not yet been completed. The other one. The government supports the idea of lowering the payroll fund, and it also works virtually every year. However, any reform must, firstly, be in line with the Constitution of Ukraine and, secondly, should not reduce the level of social protection of the population. Unfortunately, this is exactly what the proposed bill has in mind -- it's like a financial loss of insurance funds. It is estimated that up to 400 million a year, and this will undoubtedly result in a reduction in social protection. Moreover, the implementation of individual provisions of the bill will lead to an increase in the number of employees of insurance funds, which is no longer in line with the objective set out in the pooling of insurance funds. So the position of the government coincides with the conclusions of the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, with the position of the Committee of Social Policy and the work of the Supreme Council, with the conclusions of the Council of Young Entrepreneurs and also the Council of Entrepreneurs at the Cabinet of Ministers on the rejection of this bill and its re-reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u94	Let's move on to the discussion, dear fellows. From the procedure? Please, Assadchev Valerius. Out of procedure, Hara. But wait, dear fellows, we don't have committee heads. Please sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u95	Thank you. Assadchev, "Our Ukraine." Vladimir Mikhailovich, this, by the way, can be said to be a practical application to what he spoke today from the Turkic rostrum. We have wasted so much time on a question that, without the government at all from this rostrum, no one had the right to consider. His government doesn't support him, he doesn't have calculations, they've just made an initiative, they've spent almost 40 minutes of the Supreme Council's work, and it's completely unclear why. So once again I have a simple question and a request to you, I have repeatedly asked you this question. Let's organize the work of Parliament somehow. There are bills that can really be considered without a government. There are some, you know, conflicting ones, but there's a question where we need economic calculations. And here, without the government, no one can go out to the rostrum and consider such matters. And I would very much ask you, as Head of the Supreme Council, that we somehow produce and adhere to such a principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this bill has been considered by the Committee on Finance and Banking. He made the right decision and urged consideration. There is no way to draft a bill in the Head of the Supreme Council that has introduced a committee and insists on it. That is why I am limited to the fact that on every consensus board, I call on the committee leaders to introduce those bills that are absolutely necessary and that have been comprehensively expertized and that there are no strong warnings. Basil Hara, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u97	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, it is totally illogical that the Committee on Finance and Banking is leading in this regard. This is not about taxes, it is about the operation of social insurance funds. For nine years, the Supreme Council spent its time forming a legal field for the functioning of social protection for the population. The former composition of the Supreme Council has adopted a law on the foundations of compulsory public social insurance. The previous composition and the current one are already working on the remaining two funds. [[Three funds are in operation]] What is being done today will destroy the entire system of social protection of our people. Therefore, do not give God, if this law is passed on first reading, I ask very much to return to the committee of the class, to our committee, which, by the way, did not support it in first reading, for consideration and so as not to confuse the wrong with the righteous. Because what is said from the rostrum is totally not true.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u98	Dear National Deputies! So let's work and not pretend that we first met this project today by law. Your committee, Vasil Grigorovich, considered this issue and gave its opinion back to 6.02.2003, and then there was no reason why it was discussed on the Burjak Committee. Now, all of a sudden, we mentioned that there was another committee, then we had to express our position, and we would have made the right decision, and on the Conciliation Council, including, let's get to the discussion, please, let's get to the table who signed up and we've got 15 minutes to talk, let's say, let's do 20, has the word Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction. Get ready for Blackwolf, who's speaking in place of Yavorowski. I have an appropriate submission for this matter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u99	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Clearly, the issue that is being considered is very important for all of our people and, of course, animal testing is done before making any human experience in solid lands. I'd like to show you a little bit of the development of this law. On September 4th, a few pages of very thin law appear -- that's the first. There are no financial, economic reasons. October 2nd appears the same, but with a financial and economic justification table. These financial and economic justifications were not as serious in this appendix as the third law, which appeared and was filed on 16 December 2002 in exchange for the given ones, is no longer available and there is no figure at all. So I'm surprised by the level of preparation that we have here today demonstrated by a committee that has been appointed a leader who has not even seen the title of the bill in conflict with article 46 of the Constitution of Ukraine, contradicts the concept of social security for the population of Ukraine, which is approved by us, by the people's deputies, and contradicts the basics of legislation on compulsory public social insurance and basic laws of certain types of compulsory public social insurance. There was a national MP, Hara, who said they ignored the opinion of the Committee on Social Policy. And so, it doesn't provide a name. As far as social policy is concerned. There's social justice or there's no social justice. The amount of income is less than the cost of living at least 37 percent is determined by the object if it exceeds - 25 percent. I think it's insane. If you take this step, you make it, first of all, reasonable, reasonable. And secondly, do it for everyone in more or less the same conditions. Now let's see, the test of truth has always been practice. Let's see what was and was there anywhere else in the world. It's already done in Russia. What's in there? The introduction of a single social tax has led to the actual collapse of the compulsory social insurance and social security system, depending on budgetary possibilities, which have adversely affected the level of social protection of employed workers. This innovation has not produced results, and in the part of stimulating and increasing wages and tax collection, however, has led to a sharp decline in the financial sustainability of social insurance funds. Because of the sharp downsizing of funds, funds, and so on, have been adversely affected. So these conclusions were made in the Russian Federation, where they did an experiment on themselves. Should we do this experiment? I think that the law is necessary, because it violates the Constitution and violates the six valid laws, we have to go back to the first reading. And then we'll figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u100	Thank you. Taras Cranville, faction of our Ukraine. Next is Michael Crutz.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u101	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable national MPs, unfortunately, we are now considering one of the weakest laws that has ever been in the Supreme Council, the most unmotivated and socially oriented, just criminal. What's going on in the law is already in the title of the law a direct violation of the Constitution and the committee doesn't pay any attention to it -- it's already a moment of complete absurdity. What has happened is that the absolute inadequacy and inadequacy of the committee that was given this for consideration is also a question that we have to work with in this case and in the next. What's going to be the antisocial norm, when people with lower wages have higher taxes, or actually the congregation, going back to the constitutional field, that's the top of the absurdity. To assume that as a result, any of the employers will go to some of the employee's concessions and that this will be thrown only on their backs and not on their backs, you know, it's just funny. We're reading Chekov about an un-officer widow who cut herself up. It's a perfectly adequate case. It's going to be another blow, another downturn of low wages and no rise in any direction. We've already had a few attempts, and now we're finalizing in a different direction, but we're still going to raise the level of pay and help get out of this convertible, in terms of giving out envelopes, in terms of paying off wages. An experiment was conducted in three areas, including the Lviv region, where good work was observed. The great regret of Kabmin then failed to comply with our decision of the Supreme Council to reach certain conclusions on this experiment and to extend its action to Ukraine and to deepen its action. There were some possibilities, and we saw that the epistaxis of the law didn't work: there was no way out of the shadow. In the decision to resolve this issue, we can only do so if a powerful set of laws is adopted just from the childishization of the economy. Paying in envelopes or underpaid is just one aspect of the case and this law cannot be resolved in principle. I'm not talking about the fact that this law is actually taking root in the entire pension and social system of Ukraine, which today "screws" in a way that has nothing to do with the unmotivated reduction of revenue, is going to be replaced by the expansion of the tax base. Believe me, no expansion in this case is just-just not going to be with the adoption of this law. On the contrary, there will be only a deterioration in the overall situation. And likewise, there is nothing in this law, although perhaps for the future and justice there is a question of consolidating all the costs of all these social funds. This may have to be done, but it must be written in another entirely legal way in an expanded system of distribution of these funds and guarantees of equitable use of these funds. We've already passed laws that there's no one to compensate for. I ask the Supreme Council on this law not to send the first reading again, but simply to reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u102	Thank you. Mikola Krutz, faction of our Ukraine. Basil Nadrag will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u103	Mikola Krutz, Ivano-Frankivsky, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear colleagues! The bill under consideration is presented in an extremely important social and economic context. The proposed conditions and arrangements for payment by employers and insured persons of general government social security contributions can substantially change the legal regime in the area indicated. The same applies to the distribution of contributions between the Pension Fund and the insurance funds, the collection of debts for these contributions, and so on. The bill is based on the proposal to consolidate basic social insurance costs based on the establishment of a single contribution to the project's objective to be paid in accordance with a regressive principle. The analysis of the bill provides a basis for making a number of comments on its contents. First. To the very name of the project, so to its subject. Tax experts question the specificity of the term “one social tax” by referring to the fact that its components are not recognized by the tax on certain types of public compulsory social insurance. By the way, it is also not possible to include such contributions in the taxation system. So this term, and so the title of the bill, has to be clarified. It points to the inaccuracy of determining the object of payment. In addition, the project had to specify the amount of the costs that were received over a certain period of time and the rate scale of the contributions. There is a question about the proposed project for determining the amount of premiums that are determined by principle: if the amount of income is less than the minimum of living, 37 percent is paid. [[This is Article 7 of the Approach.]] object. If it's more than 25 percent. The question is how fair this approach is. As far as I'm concerned, there is a need for further study of the decision-making process for centralizing social security contributions. It is well known that a number of areas in our country have experimented with insurance registration, the formation and maintenance of information systems on insured persons, the exercise of control over the fullness and timeliness of the congregation of all social funds. This experience may be extended throughout Ukraine, provided that the results of this experiment are positive, but this should be done at the suggestion of the government. That is, the implementation of many key provisions of the project is possible only if further organizational, financial and legal measures are taken. The content of these measures should be considered in advance, reconciled with valid legislation, and predicted the social and economic adoption of draft laws. Therefore, the project can only be adopted if it is defined and reflected accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u104	Basil Nadrag, faction. People's Choice Group. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u105	Dear Lugansk, People's Choice. So the situation is the following, respected colleagues. I'd like that. Unfortunately, we did not allow that thought to be expressed during the discussion. Deeply convinced that such things, which are basic, should be considered by the basic committees. And the opinion must come from those who do it substantively. Regrettably, when it comes to what pension reform is and what the pension system is today, it is the Committee on Pensioners, Disabled Persons and Veterans. These are our colleagues from the welfare committee. When another problem needs to be identified or solved, including by retirees, there are other basic committees. In this regard, I wish to address my colleagues from the Labour and Social Protection Committee as well as mine. Let us also decide on the committees that such things should simply not go through, and let us put these decisions here in this room, and let people understand that today we are "kidding" with 14 million people who require some kind of assistance, including pensioners. Next moment. It's a great idea to cut back, get out of the shadows. But, my dears, the pension, like the benefit, has to be paid monthly. Is that in the law somewhere? I haven't found any material that says there are financial compensators for the hole that will appear when the payment rates are reduced. So here's the question: we're going to tell people that we're going to be paying you a pension by December, because we're going to have an increase in revenue then. And one last moment. The law does not contain such an element that a number of social funds, which collect different amounts and different tariffs, only 20 rates in an accident fund. How will this be unified? We'll reintroduce something that will destroy the system, and then people will lose their temporary disability, the hospital and everything else will run out of money. Therefore, with my deep respect to all who want to do better in this country, my dears, all of our wishes with you must be based on one thing - so that it is not at least worse for those for whom these social guarantees have been adopted by the State through laws, including old people and pensioners and persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u106	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. The next one will be Vernigor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u107	The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Ukrainian National Assembly. You know, there's a bill preparation system. It's done this way: it's got a good idea and it's needed, it's kind of operating, and it's kind of operating on this well-operable and positive idea, and it's going to have a negative that essentially crosses all of the previous qualities to some positive that might be there. Look at this. Of course, pooling funds into one is not bad. Do we really understand what four funds are? That's four by 20 percent rejected from every coming, to keep the device, etc., maybe even more. When we get together, we're only going to give out 20 to 30 percent of the total, or less of the cost of keeping the funds. The only thing I don’t know is whether we should hire people who will be released from that united fund. I think that these qualified people, who do nothing at all, find jobs in other ministries and departments, they need them there. And the next. We're talking about the very schematic for bringing this bill here. I fully agree that the basic committees have absolutely failed to express their public view of the bill. We don't know whether it's a pension or a bank. Why does that happen? Because there's a bit of a rush and this haste comes out that really 14 million people are waiting for change and these changes are needed, and of course there's a need for regulation of pension legislation, but not in that way. We really can't go in such a way that the rescue of the drowning is a matter of the drowning themselves. Why, then, the state. We don't think about the ratio of the state to the population. The state is not the kind of thing that holds itself together, that carries on commercial activity and so on. The state is supported by the population of its taxes and by all state apparatus, all those social protection services, pension structures that provide for normal living conditions in the worker’s future when he ceases to be a worker and becomes a pensioner. That's why I'm surprised this bill is just raw, it's not delivered in time. Although the idea may not be a bad idea, it may be a promising one. I've already said that I'm a proponent of revolutionary change, and not that it means that it's quick to destroy existing things, but that it's fast to build things that don't exist, that's revolution. That is, when we don't have the necessary bills, we need a mass of those that will ensure the further growth of those meager assets that our citizens have, rather than using their woes and problems to preserve the employer. Because the employee, first of all, who gives the employer the opportunity to be an employer, is the most responsible to us, in the light of the law-makers and the state. It's got to be the primary. I would like to say that I agree with almost all of the speakers that this project is not timely, it should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u108	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u109	Honorable colleagues and respected officials from all over Ukraine! We have just consulted even the Committee on Retired Affairs, and Peter Stepanovich says so. I'm saying, yes, I have to say that it's either done to us or I don't know where we're being led by people who are committing such a crime against people today. Moreover, we do not respect our Constitution at all, we do not respect even the President's decree, which has taken care of pension reform for the second year to increase pensions. Now we've only come to realize from this law that when we have 32 percent of the pension fund, we don't have a pension of 150 dollars. What's she going to do at 25? What will be our response to the people who are undergoing rehabilitation treatment today, our sickest, who are able to heal at least once in their lifetime? We don't think about curing children. I would like to remind you that in better times, we counted or counted more than 70 percent on social consumption funds. We missed it. Today, France accounts for 62 percent, Scandinavian countries 73. We're 37 today and we're saying, how do we do 25? So we're going to pour on this mill? I'd like to remind you that we have three funds in place today. We use these funds to implement both the 46th and the 22nd articles of the Constitution, where we are guaranteed to protect people. Today we are offered to move from social security to social security. How, then, can voluntary contributions be created or joined on the basis of the Pension Fund? It's not just being said today -- we're changing the title of the bill, no. This is a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. I think it's right for Mr. Assadchev and other colleagues to say that today you need to think, not about what you call it, but about whether you should bring these questions up for consideration. I'd like us to be on the conciliation boards, Vladimir Mikhailovich, first of all advised or corresponded to the constitution of the bill and then we have three professional committees that should have sat down and worked on some kind of coalition. I know from where it all began in the Secretary’s report that the Cabinet of Ministers in the Ministry of Social Policy and the work failed to pass through Parliament a bill on the unification of all funds. Now that they failed to do so, they decided to merge first into a single social tax, and there they said they would not unite. Today we should not change the name of this law, not send it to read it again. We should do it today. such practice and rejecting the matter and reprimanding ourselves that we have really wasted so much time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u110	Igor Shurma, faction of the United States Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u111	The faction of the United States Social Democratic Party. Under current conditions, the amount of public contributions, except insurance for industrial accidents and occupational diseases that have caused the loss of employment, is about 30 percent of the total wage fund. It is understandable that such pressure will cause many economic operators to avoid paying the premiums by hiding the actual amount of the pay - back fund. The bill's proposed reduction in contributions to social insurance funds aims at removing the hidden part of the wage and thereby broadening the financial base of social protection in the end, this should also lead to improved economic conditions and increased production. The adoption of this law is all the more important that it accompany a 13 - percent reduction in the income tax. In itself, this important step cannot encourage employers to get out of the shadow of the actual earnings of their employees. Of course, tax reform should go hand in hand with social security contributions reform. The bill also provides for the collection of a single social tax, which will then be distributed under appropriate social insurance funds. Such tactics are applied in many countries, especially in the European Union: Belgium, Britain, Ireland, Spain, Portugal, and now Poland. A similar approach is justified by a reduction in administrative expenditure in the control part and the payment of contributions. A positive feature of the bill is that it foresees a one-day deadline for counting the appropriate payments from the pension fund to appropriate social insurance funds to prevent abuse. It is also important that the bill legitimizes the personification of social security contributions, provides appropriate documentation and access for insured persons to information about their accounts. This will contribute to transparency and control in the activities of insurance funds. Undoubtedly, all the comments made by previous colleagues are right. But today we need to consider one thing so that we do not lose out on a very good idea. Thus, the faction believes that this bill should be sent for rereading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u112	Please proceed with the procedure, Mastermaster. It's a faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u113	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like that when we talk to you about the procedure, we don't forget the main thing -- that today the whole system of tax changes is just about to increase citizens' income. And this law lies in the space of the package, when we increase citizens' income, we can say that consumption will increase. And the growth of the economy. And if we're saying today that he's somewhat imperfect, let's count what we're talking about first reading and second reading, we're going to take all the notes into account, on the one hand. On the other hand, let me insist that the law further improves the portion of the card provision of all these contributions, so that each person has a certain motivation for, she knows what amount she has on either account, one or the other fund. You see, today, the unemployment fund is doing capital construction. Is this his function? What are we talking about? We're talking about what we're just trying to do from the very beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u114	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please microphone, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u115	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Peter Cibenko Dear colleagues, in fact, what happens after the adoption of this law will be exactly the opposite of what the authors say. In order to protect an insured pensioner, all these funds must be filled. What is proposed by the law? First. And I'm asking you to pay attention to that. First of all, all incomes that exceed six living minimums are exempt from any tax. Think about it, they're exempt from any tax. The other one. All that between one living minimum and six -- that's pretty high income -- is dropping from 32-37 to 25. That's a second improvement. And third, what's the least revenue, what's left is the same level that it was. So what we're talking about is that there's a significant decline in the counting on the Pension Fund, all the social funds, and we're being told that this is meant to improve the situation. Dear colleagues, this document cannot be accepted in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, the consideration of the matter is over, we will make a decision taking into account the discussion that took place here, taking into account the positions expressed by the national deputies and committee heads who have a direct bearing on this draft law. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the improvement of individual provisions is being announced for consideration. Reporter - Prašenko Petr Alexiyovich We agreed with you both on this Conciliation Council, and on the previous one that we will consider one draft law that is proposed by the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! For your consideration, you have a very important bill proposing the solution of the most painful problems, first of all, the local budgets that have become systematic in applying the current Code of Budgets. I'm not going to repeat to you that the Budget Code, we now have a two-year application of the Budget Code, and in the meantime, we have accumulated some experience that requires a very serious revision of the current Budget Code. First, a few words from the procedure for considering and adopting changes to the Budget Code. All the accumulated problems that I've been talking about can be conditionally divided into two groups. First group. These are systemic problems that need to be solved in sufficient time that we do not have right now, and the involvement of a wide range of experts and experts. The budget committee is working on these issues now and will continue to work to bring a balanced, coherent bill to the Supreme Council to address systemic problems. The second cluster of problems is the problems that will have a major impact on budget implementation already in the current year, and it is crucial for budgeting in the 2004 budget process, to which we will approach September 15th, but the government must now be armed with the appropriate positions when preparing the draft budget for introduction to the Supreme Council. So, according to the Conciliation Council of the Heads of factions, a joint decision was made with the government to follow a simplified scheme and to submit to your consideration only agreed changes that do not give rise to objections within the government or the committee. This bill, which we are currently considering, is proposed for your consideration. I would also like to point out that 15 more bills have been submitted for consideration by individual members of the people to amend the Code of Budgets. Most of them are either included in the harmonized bill, or taken out by the authors, which are individualized as increasing the workload on local budgets due to a lack of resources within the local budget or balancing the system of inter-budget relations. A number of bills, two bills, such as the Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenika bill. That the government does not agree to the inclusion of the rules contained in this bill in the harmonized bill is proposed to work with the budgetary committee at the stage of preparing the bill for second reading. Now essentially the proposed changes. According to the analysis carried out, the most relevant today is the order for changes to be made to local budgets according to the fact that their income has been overturned. I mean, what's going on? If the local budget is substantially overstated by the sum of 1.2 quarters, if the local authorities are actively working to increase the income of the local budget, the actual rules and regulations of the Budget Code are written in such a way that all of this surplus is eliminated in the State budget. And we're actually confusing any motivation for the heads of local self-government authorities to execute and re-establish local budgets. Only on the basis of the 3rd quarter of October, and only on the condition that 3 blocks are completed by more than 15 percent, are we returning to the problem of effective budget planning only in this case we allow the local budget over. make appropriate changes to the respective local budgets. I'm sure, and here this position is supported unanimously by the Committee on Budgets, that it violates the principle of the autonomy of local self-government authorities in making decisions and in that they are responsible for the decision they make. The Committee on Budgets proposes that this restriction be lifted. The government agrees. And I think this will allow us to significantly increase the implementation of local budgets, increase the autonomy and responsibility of local budgets in making decisions. Another very important issue is that the current code has unfortunately left the issue of how local budgets are used at the end of the budget period as a result of overturning income, spending and other circumstances. Practice shows that when the local budget comes in on January 1st, we still have the issue of transitional cash. And our bill proposes to allow local budgets to use these funds to generate negotiable cash and also to include free budget balances to cover local budget deficits. We are confident that these proposed changes will greatly improve the implementation of local budgets, allowing them to quickly address socially important issues at the local level. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know the difficulties that have led to an increase in the minimum wage since the adoption of the State Budget Act. It was only in mid - year that we, together with the government, managed to resolve this very important and painful issue. In order to ensure budgetary balance, we propose to determine and approve the minimum wage size and the minimum cost of living, directly, in the State Budget Act for the year in question. If we have not had any disagreements with the government on minimum wage, this issue has been agreed upon and put into a cohesive bill, then the proposal of individual members of the national parliaments on the issue of subsistence minimum issues remains controversial, and we have not included it in this bill in order to settle this in the preparation of the draft budget for second reading. I draw your attention to an extremely important rule on the proposal for inclusion in the state budget of Ukraine's state trust funds. The argument here is very simple. There's a bill that we've just been discussing about the only social tax that basically provides for a general reduction in wages and a change of administration, that's what we've all been talking about here. And that danger really exists. The inclusion of State social funds in the state budget, appropriate public treasury services, will provide compensation for the costs of the state budget, the possible losses, the arrivals of these funds for the first time in the years of the introduction of a single social tax, and reduces the risks associated with the adoption of a single social tax. But what I'm stressing is that there's only a consolidation of public trust funds in the state budget, and in no way does it mean any dispersion. As today, they will be used solely for their purpose and no one will have any right in any other direction or in another term to use the funds of the state trust funds. On the other hand, the consolidation in the state budget of pension funds we're going to see that the state is redistributing almost 50 percent of the gross domestic product, that's what it is. In fact, it gives us the opportunity to draw conclusions on the state administrative pressure on economic operators, because 50 percent of the gross domestic product on an involuntary basis today -- we're already saying by adopting similar changes to the state budget -- is being redistributed through government taxes and congregations. To conclude, I would like to stress once again that these changes to the Budget Code will improve the situation of local budgets already in the current year, and this will allow for a guaranteed solution to the issue of financing the increase in minimum wage and the restoration of the corresponding ratio, which is the main burden on local budgets in the current year. The Budget Committee recommends that the Supreme Council accept this project as a basis for the first reading. The budget committee will then process proposals from legislators in second reading mode and submit a comparative table for consideration by the Supreme Council in a timely manner. We hope that we can do it, we set ourselves up for the purpose that we will be able to adopt this bill, I emphasize, this is Bill 2139-d, this bill in this session. This is an extremely important and relevant issue. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u118	Thank you. Questions, fellow believers. Please sign up. Give me five minutes. Yes, please put your names on the board. Taras Cranville, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u119	Your Honor, I agree that this is a bill that needs to be adopted. I only have two questions. He kept going under the phrase "agreed," and here the government suddenly introduces its bill, which is essentially a new edition of the budget code. How can that be? And second moment. A series of ten bills have been introduced to date on changes to the budget code, which are largely not in conflict with your bill and are being supplemented. Wouldn't it be better if we had them in a fixed order, and the ones that are now hanging out, that we have today written out, that we are going to be looking at, and the others have looked at them, and we've already looked at them on the second reading as a complement to yours. As a union of drafts, otherwise we are in some kind of conflict with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u120	Thank you so much for asking, Taras Viacheslavovich. The first block of questions in government. The government is the subject of a legislative initiative, and we cannot impose our opinion on the government. Of course, we would consider it necessary for the government to withdraw its bill, but the government has expressed its position that it agrees. And I think that Feder Alexiyovich, as a representative of the government, will now confirm that he agrees with the changes made to the budget code and does not object to the consideration of his comprehensive bill, which, you have quite rightly noticed, is actually completely redrafting the current budget code in the fall. With regard to positions, proposals by deputies, I can give you the following statistics. Of the 15 bills, four were called off by the authors, two rejected by the budget committee, such as those balancing local budgets and contradicting the substance of the code, because the entire codex will have to be copied. Two bills, because the government did not agree with them, we invited the authors to submit them for second reading in order to allow the Supreme Council to determine on its own the fate of these provisions, the budget committee does not object. And I'm sure that's actually the only way we'll be able to address the most pressing problems of the local budgets, so that we don't leave them alone in the matter of solving the relevant powers that are delegated to the local budgets by the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u121	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u122	Thank you. Peter Alexeiovich, Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, faction of the SDPU. I'd like to support my colleague's proposal. Of course, this bill must be adopted in the first reading. Please tell me, how is this important to me for the county, is this problem consistent with the minimum wage and the state budget in terms of the funding mechanism? You know that today, unfortunately, our minimum wage law is not being implemented in the part where it was stated that sources of funding are government budgets. And it turns out that in places like Zaporozhye County, at the expense of raising the minimum wage, they take money from the payroll fund in November and December. And now they're taking October. Please tell me how to make your amendments and additions to the budget code will remove this disagreement with the State Budget Act of Ukraine and the minimum wage law in part of the source of minimum wage financing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u123	Thank you, Sir Jaroslav. First, the decision to finance the minimum wage for the current year, which was due to the adoption of the Minimum Wages Act after the State Budget Act, where the sources of minimum wage financing were not included in the State Budget Scoreboard, was regulated by us by amending the current State Budget Act. This law provided that the government, in agreement with the budget committee, should urgently develop the distribution of funds that we refer to local budgets from the state budget in order to finance the restoration of the ratio in connection with the increase in the minimum wage. As far as I know, the government has just completed the development, Feder Alexiyovich, I would ask you to confirm that the government has completed the process of developing the distribution of funds to the local budgets, and it is due to arrive at our committee in the near future, and we can inform the distinguished speakers from Zaporozhye, from your constituency, as well as from other districts that no later than the end of this month, that this order will come into the region, and these costs that we have foreseen, thanks to the principle of the Supreme Council's position to compensate for the local budgets, are expected to come in line with the law of early July to solve the painful problem that you have encountered. The issue of amending the Code of Budgets makes it impossible in the future to ensure that the minimum wage issue is necessarily taken into account in the calculation of the expenditure of the state budget and local budgets. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u124	Basil Nadrag, National Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u125	Dear Peter Alekseevich, if we don't do it the way we did last year. We talked about how we want to help everyone, including pensioners, and today we're still talking about that we have to raise pensions and mass masses of all kinds of things. That's what we did last year, we didn't put seven hundred million dollars in the pension fund, and that's the basis for a higher pension, and today we're going to go to the Pension Fund, the social funds, we're going to do the same song, and we're going to get what we're saying on the one hand: people, we're going to raise you. In fact, we don't give money to raise the same pension.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u126	Thank you for asking. That's a very valid question, and there's an additional explanation that the consolidation of public budget funds doesn't change in any way the source of government budget funding -- I insist on that, nor the order in which these funds are used. To date, we are only running a consolidation, a government budget bill, and the issue of pension reform should be settled when we consider the Budget Resolution with you. Now, let's make it clear that the Pension Fund, including the surpluses, and the surplus that is currently in the Pension Fund, has to be concentrated, perhaps the additional resources of the Pension Fund to ensure that our pension reform, which everyone so many declares, has an adequate resource security that has no bearing on the consolidation of funds into the state budget. Why are we doing this? In order to make the distribution, use of these funds absolutely transparent, it was done under the control of the Supreme Council, under your control, in order to ensure that the relevant review bodies: the Audit and Audit Office, the Court of Auditors would have good reason to analyse the efficiency of the use of the funds of the Pension and other state-owned trust funds, in which, we now see, there are some problems with this use. So thank you so much for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u127	Vasil Gavriluk, National Authority MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u128	Vassili Gavriluk, electoral district 147, Kremenchug, members of the People's Government. I wanted to ask you further, Petr Aleksevich. Do you not think that the chapter “Controlling the implementation of budgetary legislation and accountability for budgetary offences” and the articles of the general part are related to monitoring compliance with budgetary legislation to strengthen? For example, article 26 of the current Code of Budget proposes that a new part be added to clarify the form of financial control, such as revisions, checks, and so forth. And to increase the responsibility for failing to comply with the budget code in part, especially in terms, as we saw in the 2003 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u129	We have made appropriate proposals for a budget adoption procedure. As far as I know, they're being considered, including on your committee, Mr. Vasil. With regard to the proposals you're making, they certainly have the right to exist, and this issue of increasing the efficiency of budget use and of monitoring compliance with budgetary legislation is extremely relevant. But it was with this argument that the budget committee was proposing to adopt this bill only on a basis, only in the first reading, so that the Supreme Council would be able to determine the proportion of proposals, including the proposals you just made, for inclusion in the second reading and in general. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u130	Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u131	Vitaly Shibko, socialist faction. Peter Alexiyovich, I'd like to ask you some methodological questions. That's how we shake this code all the time. So it really does exist in the world, that every time we adopt a law, we forge a code? Is this some nonsense that exists only in Ukraine? Now we're going to talk about the local police, and there's another question that needs to be raised somehow by the local code, the local budget, and so on. How long will it take us not to be this budget code and change it every time? That's the question. In fact, I confirm that it's really a nonsense when there, it means that the local budget can't make any more money because it's circumcised and passed on to the State budget, it's not interested in the local government, but you have to do something universal right now. What view of the committee today?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u132	I thank you so much for that question. Well, there's definitely a budget committee coming out and this is the common position of all the members of the budget committee that we have to ensure the stability of budgetary legislation. Moreover, legislation that codifies processes, that is, we today should work under clearly defined rules of the budgetary process. And since the experience of using the budget code is very small, the budget committee is very careful to make any changes to the budget code. We need more experience, more work on this. That is why we have not recommended to date for consideration of the government bill, a draft of two other national MPs, who are fundamentally making substantial, extraordinary changes to the budget code during the actual budgetary process. We fully share your concern and therefore settle only the exact questions, well in fact, which today contradict the de facto Constitution, limit the authority of the local budgets. No other methodological issues touch on these changes. What's more, when we have a discussion today at the Ministry of Finance with the First Deputy Prime Minister, I think that the path of finding, compromising and removing any issues from there today is an effective way to solve the immediate problems of the budget this year. At the same time, we have a working group headed by the first deputy head of the budget committee, Ludmila Paulna Suprun, who is now accumulating all the proposals, involving scientists, engaging experts, working with the government to introduce a coherent, very careful, very verifiable bill that we will be able to present to the Supreme Council in the fall, which will not be explained by any tactical, seven-minute needs, because it will not affect the budgetary process of the current year. So we can protect ourselves from tactics.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u133	Thank you. Please, Feder Alexiyovich Jaroshenko, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance. Government position.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u134	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, really Peter Alexiyovich expressed a common position and government, because the problems that exist today in terms of the budgetary process require an immediate settlement. And the bill that has been set, it just provides for a very clear definition of the problems of the budget process this year and to take into account in the future of 2004, to address the shortcomings that we have today. Therefore, he was asked to be approved and accepted in the first reading today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the discussion, 20 minutes to discuss. Explain the names of the people’s deputies on the board that have been signed up to participate in the discussion. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Please. Blackbeard Taras to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u136	The Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. The honourable national deputies, of course, making changes to the Ukrainian Budget Code, are serious, very serious matters. You and I have a budget code that we need to go back to very seriously. I would very much like this not to be done by a budget committee. I think I'm going to express my thoughts about why it's necessary for me not to do this to the budget committee. When the budget committee is to determine for itself how it will treat itself well, whether the government treats itself, we will have the same mistakes that we already have. I'll tell you that this project, more faithfully, the Budget Code was fully prepared in Cabmine. And he is prepared against the interests of the people. And what needs to be changed today, this budget code, is to be changed at the level of legal policy, not at the level of purely economic and budgetary committee approaches. So by sharing the thoughts that the Prashenko People's Deputy has expressed on the need for the changes he is proposing, I would also be very careful to use this term when making changes that are proposed so that the minimum wage for the next financial year is determined exclusively by the State Budget Act of Ukraine. I don't think that's right. Because there's going to be another majority and it's going to determine a different size, and we have to leave the Constitution with you, and the Constitution says it takes enough to make it happen. And what you offer with this government, I have no doubt. Therefore, it is not necessary for consensus to be a government with a budget committee, but for us to work for the Ukrainian people. I want this situation deleted, however, that the State Budget Act determines the minimum wage. And you propose changes to article 38, you propose changes to article 33 in the same way: setting the minimum wage for the planned budget period. The minimum wage isn't set for the budget period, it's the orientation, it's the social orientation, and it's linked to a lot of committees, not just this committee. Now, honourable national MPs, I want to say that there is a positive side to the proposals that apply to the local budget. Regrettably, and as far as the funds of government trust funds are concerned today. And it's very true that it's proposed to include all state-owned trust funds in the component of the budget, because budget spending is an irregular cost, it's a criminal liability. There's no responsibility for spending on trust funds. Where are they going? They're half-streaking, half-stretching. But the Attorney General's office doesn't violate these facts in criminal matters. So I'm in favour of the first reading of these changes, but I would like to make a revision of the budget code in the interests of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u137	Thank you. Taras Cranville, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Tereshku.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u138	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow MPs! First of all, I'm going to be speaking not only for the MPs, but as the head of the local budget subcommittee at the local self-government committee. Unfortunately, our committee hasn't been able to make a decision yet, because we're only going to have a meeting tomorrow on this subject, so I can only say the position of the subcommittee. The general support for the committee bill, I think we all have to be clear -- it improves the budget code system, it normalizes it and brings it more today to the level of necessity today, and it takes some of it down, not all of it, but some of the stuffing that was due to maybe a little too strong the influence of the Cabinet when it adopts the budget code itself. There is some procedural negative that has taken place in the consideration of this bill and in preparation for the consideration of other bills that relate to amendments to the budget code, since 93 articles of the Constitution have been violated to some extent, and because the authors of other bills had no full right to implement their legislative initiatives, part of the bills has not been dealt with in time by the committee, part has been rejected, not recommended for adoption solely from a formal point of view, not in fact. But it still doesn't change my view of this bill, and I will definitely support it. But there are four groups of bills in parallel. I'd like to stop at them very briefly. Zybenko and Suškević are two bills that seriously improve the direction of this law in the social sphere. Kosinova, Mystrishina and my two bills that liberalize the law enforcement system of local self-government, separate positive Pinzenik and individual Nikolainko, who also make their own positive contribution. I think it would be very appropriate if those bills could be considered in a set, in a package together proposed by the committee, and then in a second reading, to go together, not by introducing rights. Unfortunately, we just don't physically make it. What I want to say about this bill, which I think is just a little bit on the cheeks to the end. Articles on the implementation of local budgets should be liberalized as much as possible. The Constitution gives them the authority that the current Code of Budget is virtually in conflict with. That regulation, which is simply unacceptable. This is what a group of Kosinov, Masters and other MPs are all about. And both mine. Not exactly the logical attitude in an existing bill that is, and this can also be arranged in preparation for the second reading of budgetary surpluses. There's a position in the bill on local self-government that needs to be written out, it has to be written as I think in the Budget Code. Unfortunately, there is no such thing as a strange position about predicting these remains. And what's very important to me is that we have to urgently regulate the position on the budgets of the village, the village and the city of the district subordination, with the output of them into direct budgetary regulation or for the beginning of the transitional period, I'm already finishing up the formula. which is clearly approved by the Supreme Council in line with the Cabinet and is only being tested by the authorities and excluded from this volunteer pressure that exists from the administrations, I call for the support of this bill, but consider it just the beginning of a fundamental work on reforming the Budget Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u139	Sergey Tereshuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u140	Dear National Deputies! The budget code in today’s edition has been in operation recently, but today the need for the adoption of the new amendments proposed in the bills has become apparent. These bills are essentially ambiguous. Some require such a systemic approach, and they need to be worked out by experts, scientists. The rest today call for immediate changes that have already taken place today, especially those provided for by the Law on the Project (?) the income of natural persons. All these laws proposed by the National Deputies, members of the Budget Committee, are discussed carefully at the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. I'll say they found mostly support. First of all, strengthening the financial base of local governments. This is especially true of rural and rural councils. Most of them today are unable to exercise either delegated or their own authority. You know that the income part of today’s rural and rural budget is formed by agricultural enterprises. And you know what their condition is today. We also support the position on the inclusion in the income part of the budget of all the state-owned trust funds, which has already been mentioned here. Regrettably, the draft budget committee did not reflect the issue of the transfer of funding authority to rural areas for culture and health care from local to district budgets. Today's norm, or this norm, is proposed in the bill of the People's Deputies of Hubski and Rishnjak. Once again, rural budgets are being formed at the expense of agricultural enterprises. Out of 453 budgets, only 15 or 20 are able to finance medical and educational facilities. We also support the bill of the National Deputy of Cibenka, which provides for the regulation of the implementation of expenditure on rehabilitation centres and the allocation of funds for the treatment of disabled persons and children with disabilities. But at the same time, our faction today wants to draw the attention of the people’s deputies to the terrible situation that has arisen in the agro-industrial complex of our nation. The seven billion losses suffered by peasants as a result of the difficult winter add to the same amount of damage caused by the terrible spring and summer drought. Of course, such losses would not be so great and would not have hit agricultural producers so that last year, when we accept the budget, we put insurance costs in line with the law. Today, animal life is at risk. Nearly three hundred thousand cuts in the head are in the present two areas. Of course, we can partially resolve these issues so that we can adopt the Milk and Milk Products Act so that we can adopt the Meat Act in the third reading, even though we can't solve all the problems, but only state subsidies can help, all the more by joining the World Trade Organization. Our farmers will not be able to compete with their foreign counterparts. I'm not going to talk about the social situation. Today, it is catastrophic in the countryside, with only 25 percent of rural workers working in the countryside. And that's because the wages are very low -- 178 bucks. The social sphere is virtually unfunded. Let me give you an example. Grizzly, center, Spolyan region -- only ten percent of the villages are gassed. As a result, the rural population has been reduced by 160,000 per year, four areas per year are not on the map.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u141	All right, time's up. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, Anatoly Frost is next. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's not an accident that a number of bills have been tabled today on amendments and additions to the Budget Code, and I think that's normal. Because there was a question in the room, is it normal or is it not an anomaly? That's normal, because it's driven by the very dynamics of socio-economic development of society, the complexity of the process of transformation of the economy and the corresponding emergence and exacerbation of a number of contradictions, in particular with regard to the budgetary process, we are obliged to see, take into account and resolve them at the legislative level right here in this room. Particularly acute today is the contradiction between approaches to state budgeting and local budgets. You may know from the press that in view of this today in a number of regions, such as the budget of filling regions such as Zaporozhye, Donetsk, Dnipropetrovsk, cities are increasingly requiring the introduction of a special economic regime for these regions, with a particularly excellent budgeting arrangement. So, as a majority deputy, from Zaporozhye, who is currently carrying a huge technological burden, I would like to point out that, in order to remove the contradiction, a special interest is represented by the bill that Peter Alexiyovitch Prashenko reported here, in particular the definition of sources of financing for the minimum wage for budgeters. Because I didn't ask this question by chance, would it remove this disagreement from the changes made to the budget code? I think it's going to remove this disagreement, because today, in the State Budget Act, we didn't have a minimum wage. I would like to remind our fellow Ukrainian national deputies once more of what is happening in connection with certain speculations. It's not our fault that we were forced to set the minimum wage on fire. The government did not submit the necessary bill in accordance with the Wages Act, and we went out to adopt the 2003 budget with little to the minimum of living at the same level and without requiring a new minimum wage. And special support is due to the proposal of a bill that is under consideration today regarding the inclusion in the State Budget of Ukraine and the use of all government trust funds created by taxes and assemblies, mandatory payments. This will allow a complex and complicated system of state-owned trust funds that exists today in Ukraine, as well as the unification of any revenue that is essentially taxable. The faction of SDPU(o) will support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u143	Anatoly Frost, Communist faction. The next one will be Dragnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u144	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Zaporez area, Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! These. That today the Supreme Council is considering changes to the Ukrainian Budget Code, and the proposals we see in this code are very much, it is really not as bad as some of our colleagues are saying, because it is better to make proposals today, although it may be too late, and on the other hand it might be important to watch closely when we have considered and adopted this budget code, that perhaps these amendments, which today are a great deal, would be much smaller. There are positive reactions to these changes that we are making to the budget code. The local self-government authorities are still continuing to address my colleagues, and I personally think they're making proposals from their own self-government agencies to make changes to the Budget Code. For example, I think that both the budget committee and you and I will be able to write the second reading more specifically or propose to add to article 98 a paragraph 10 that is not available, which would sound like "the volume of the basket of public taxes and the congregations that account for the calculation of subsidies, the alignment of local budgets is determined on the basis of a formula that takes into account the actual arrival of these taxes and assemblies in the territory of the last three budget periods." Complementing this section of the budget code would allow, in the opinion of all levels of local self-government, to address the problems of overcoming the income base to calculate subsidies to areas and so on. I support those proposals that are presented in, so to speak, additions and amendments to the budget code under article 78, and I think you could write it down to make it sound more specific. This decision to change the local budget decision is approved by the council, but quarterly if the local budget’s income is exceeded for the relevant periods. Thus, this will allow for a rapid solution to the problems of the territories. I wish it would sound more specific to the second reading and article 73, paragraph 1. In order to cover the temporary cash gaps arising from the implementation of the general budget fund of local self-government, the regional government administrations of the appropriate boards may lend to lower-level budgets if they are unable to obtain loans in financial and credit institutions. The adoption of this article will allow for the closure of temporary cash gaps between income volumes and the need for protected rural articles in connection with the seasonality of income. And I think it's a start.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u145	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u146	The second reading will include all these suggestions, and they must be supported. Changes to the Budget Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u147	Yes, the people's deputy is missing. Is there a Mironenko? None. Vladimir Puzakov, please. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u148	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradish. I would like to address the distinguished Peter Alexiovich and the representative of the government. In view of the fact that the second year has not solved the problem of financing law enforcement agencies in Kyrovograd and perhaps in other cities, you do not consider it necessary to define, as soon as possible, through the Ukrainian Budget Code in the law on the State Budget of Ukraine, those units that could be financed from local budgets in connection with their lack of funding from the State budget. So if so, on behalf of the law enforcement agencies, first of all, Kirovgrad, I would ask you to consider these proposed changes in preparation for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u149	Yes, Vladimir Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u150	The "Our Ukraine" faction, the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, why do we now consider the draft law on amending the Code of Budgets? First of all, because we've adopted a budget code that's not good enough. Sometimes voters ask why you don't have professionals, professionals, smart people? Yes! But because there is a conflict of interest in the session room and a certain law, one or the other is always a product of compromise. It's different. Life continues, it manifests imperfections, it creates new problems to which we are obliged to respond. These are two main reasons for making changes to our laws and codes, including the Code of Budgets. But there is a question of why these changes are initiating MPs, not the government. Here the deputy Suhi spoke, he said a lot of the right things, but the representative of the Hare asked him from the place: Why didn't he bring a government whose government it was? If there is a majority, if it forms a government, it has to cooperate with the government and the government has to legislate. This does not preclude individual deputies from making them, nor is it true. But I think the government had to generalize the shortcomings, the problems, the contradictions that have arisen, and prepare for consideration the only bill necessary for today's revisions to the Budget Code. And so far we have not a single bill, but we have a whole series of bills from the national MPs. I don't think it's the right way to solve a problem. Now essentially. I also share the view that the proposed bills need to be supported, including a bill with which Deputy Poroshenko made statements concerning sources of wage financing for budgetary organisations. We have adopted the Minimum Wages Act, adopted budget changes, and now we are absolutely obliged to accept changes to the Budget Code. It is also necessary to adopt amendments to the Budget Code regarding the financing of local budgets, the redistribution of funds between the State budget and the local budget. This is exactly one of the painful points of the budget process and there are also proposals for necessary changes. There is a reasonable proposal to include all the trust funds in the state budget, because they are often used as non-target funds. So all of these proposals are right, I think we can adopt the bills in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u151	Thank you. Time's up. It's Stanislaw Nikolaynko's procedure. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u152	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I would like to say that I also have a bill that I have introduced on amending and supplementing the budget code, which provides for the consideration of the thinking of the majority and virtually all local budgets. It's about the fact that out-of-school schools today are naturalist stations, children's sports schools and all that sort of thing, and preschool schools, these are kindergartens, they're transferred today to a state-of-the-art level, down to a village council. And by the way, this is where you can take the field and obstetrician sites and the culture there, the units that aren't actually funded. The point of my bill is that we have to take these needs into account when we take into account inter-budget transfers from the State budget. I'd like the Budget Committee and Minfin to take this into account because these institutions are dying today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, we have agreed that when we take the basis of this project, which is done by the budgetary committee, which is in line with the government, until the second reading of all the proposals made by the people's deputies, we will consider them in the session room if they are not taken into account by the budget committee itself. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Decisions will be made according to established order. A draft law on Ukraine’s environmental network is being announced for consideration. The committee proposes the following project review: 10 minutes for the report, 10 minutes for answers to the questionnaire, and 10 minutes for discussion, that is, half an hour for consideration of the project. No objections? You don't? Thank you. Please, the reporter is the first deputy head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Ivan Alexandrovich Hare. Ivan Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u154	Thank you, Your Honor. Ivan Hare, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! A bill on Ukraine’s environmental network, submitted by a group of Ukrainian national deputies - John Zayj, Mikola Chersun and Valérie Samoulovski - is being submitted for your consideration. The bill sets out the legal principles for the formation of conservation and the inexhaustible use of Ukraine's environmental network, which is a territorial and functional network of natural systems of special value, such as those of the natural-genuine fund. The environmental network is called upon to strengthen the natural resource potential of our country, to ensure the conservation of biological and landscape diversity of habitats and the growth of valuable species of the animal and plant world, their genetic foundation, the migration of birds' animals, and so on. The need to adopt such a law is due to a number of reasons. First. The bill is aimed at ensuring the implementation of existing legislation, namely the Ukrainian Act on the National Environmental Networking Programme 2000-2015, which was adopted by Parliament on 21 September 2000. We must make our decisions without reservation, and then others will recognize them. The other one. There is an urgent need to deepen the legislative regulation of social relations in the area of the formation, conservation and austerity of Ukraine's environmental network as an extremely important factor, a tool for ensuring the sustainable development of the state, environmental protection, economic, social, environmental and social interests and needs. Frankly, we are late to adopt this law. In practice, the ecological network is slow, but it is not slow, but it is being constructed, including the removal of natural conservation funds that are to become the nucleus of Ukraine’s ecological network. On the other hand, we need to respond to tremendous changes in social life. We need to realize that Ukraine is now rapidly developing a new material environment, a new material infrastructure for social life, a new network of roads, a new housing system, and facilities for health recreation, industrial complexes, and so forth. The material infrastructure of social life is quickly demonized, accompanied by the development of all new and new lands. This process often involves and destroys areas of extraordinary natural value — rivers, lakes, forests, skates, and so forth. I've already talked about this a hundred times, the same conch sleep event, for example, southeast of Kiev, but now there's a visa. And we kind of see these destructive processes that sometimes scare me. People good, in 5-10 years, we won't find any corner that hasn't been destroyed by man. And now we have enormous wealth. Such essentially uncontrollable environmental requirements have led to a significant decline in Ukraine’s natural and resource potential to a significant decline in biodiversity, to the destruction of the original natural landscapes. In a situation where everyone rips out pieces of territory regardless of environmental requirements, when valuable natural complexes are destroyed, it is impossible to create an effective environmental network without legislative provisions. That's why we need a law on Ukraine's environmental network. Third. The national environmental network must become part of a single and spatial system of the European environmental network. So there is a need to implement the only approaches, the principles of governance throughout Pan-European environmental space, which cannot be achieved without appropriate legislation. Ukraine’s draft law on Ukraine’s environmental network consists of four chapters and 23 articles. The "General Positions" section defines the specific tasks of environmental network legislation, defines the concept of an environmental network, the structure of an environmental network, the established principles of the formation, conservation and use of eco-business objects, establishes the legal regime of land ownership and other natural resources of the environmental network. The draft law defines the economy as the only territorial system of areas of natural landscapes that are subject to special protection, which includes areas and objects of the natural reserve, resort and health care, recreational, water protection, maintenance and other areas and objects that are defined by the Ukrainian legislation and are part of structural, territorial elements of the economy, natural regions, natural corridors, key, interconnected, renewable and buffer elements. According to the bill, the inclusion of territories and objects in the ecological network does not change the category of land to which they belonged. I, the honourable MPs, draw your attention to this position, because many have expressed themselves for devoting such lands to a separate category, and in time, I think we will come to that conclusion. But now there is an offer not to put these lands into a separate category. The second section, "State Administration in the Field of Environmental Networking, Conservation and Use" defines the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers, the central executive body on environmental and natural resources issues, and other central executive bodies, local executive authorities and local self-government bodies in the area of the formation, conservation and use of the environmental network. The third chapter is "The means of providing, shaping, preserving and rationally inefficient use of the ecological network", defines the aspects of scientific security and regulation in the field covered, the design of the environmental network, the protection regime and the use of its territory and facilities, the financing mechanisms and the economic incentives for the formation and use of the environmental network. If you're going to read article 15 where you're talking about designing an environmental network, there are some pretty interesting things here that I want to draw your attention to, too. This is that the General Environmental Network scheme is an integral part of Ukraine's overall planning scheme and is approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Regional and local schemes of the former network are approved by the relevant councils following their alignment with the master scheme of the former Ukrainian network, which is certified by the central authority of the executive branch on environmental and natural resources issues. So, dear friends, there will still be a great deal of work ahead of us to establish a general environmental network. We are well aware today that there is no general scheme for planning areas in Ukraine that meets today’s demands and environmental constraints and social requirements. And this has a very negative impact on environmental protection, on the use of natural resources. This is where all these negative processes start after the destruction of the natural environment. So we need to speed up our work so that the Cabinet of Ministers can pass this general scheme, and we've approved it. The fourth chapter of the bill is devoted to the End. But there are other provisions in this bill that provide for a mechanism for State monitoring, the calculation of territories and eco - commercial objects, the participation of the public in its formation, preservation and use. A bill on Ukraine's environmental network has been introduced to your attention and has been analyzed by a number of institutions at scientific institutions. In particular, our committee received the findings of the Institute of State and the rights of the name of the National Academy of Sciences of Korea, the Institute of Botanics of the name of the Cold NANU, the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We take note of the comments made by scientists and the Ukrainian National Deputies and promise to take most of the proposals into account when preparing the bill for second reading. On behalf of the drafters of the bill, I would like to thank all those who have sent their comments. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has also made proposals to improve the bill. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office: The first reading of the bill can be based on the comments made and the suggestions made. They supported the adoption of the bill on the basis of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: science and education, budget, agrarian politics and land relations. He made his remarks and supported the idea of adopting the bill, taking into account the comments and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The adoption and implementation of legislation will create conditions for the unsustainable use of Ukraine's landscape and biota resources, which is the basis for ecologically balanced development of society. So please support this bill and accept it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u155	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please give the names of the national MPs on the board. Peter Petrovich Toloczko, members of the People's Government, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u156	Ivan Aleksandrovitch, I want to understand this law very much. I have two such small questions. The landscape network or the ecological network means that there will be land left between the networks that will not be controlled by law, right? And the second question. How do you get into this ecological network of Trachtomirov's private landscape park, which already has 15,000 hectares and has virtually no access to which people don't have.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u157	First question. When we talk about the environmental network as a system, it means that the objects that form this ecological network are spatially connected. That's why we're here. bound all over Ukraine. That is why we today need to hurry with the adoption of this law and with the formation of an environmental network. And we're seeing processes unfold today that run counter to our task of creating an environmental network. Today, for example, a network of automobiles, highways, is being formed in Ukraine. If we don't agree on these processes, if we open up these elements of the environmental network with the vans, then we won't. diversity, we don't provide a playable natural function. So our task today is to reconcile processes to create a new material infrastructure for our society and the environmental network. That's why we're on this network. There will really be lands that are not included in this network, but today our task is to create these critical masses where we will provide biodiversity. And the second question. When we include Trachtomirov National Park, the reserve. We will include it because according to this law, the form of ownership of the earth on these objects has no bearing. It will remain behind these people, but the use will be subject to the requirements of this law and environmental network. And more than that, I'll tell you what it is. Because of such a bill, through the program we will introduce a fairly strong restriction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u158	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u159	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear national deputy to the Hare! Please tell me that I am very grateful that you made this law late, because we had to consider it a few years ago. But tell me, please, I read it well and I think how to extrapolate it to that terrible situation that happened in Odessa, I mean the land of the health fund. Now they've divided the entire Odessa reserve area completely in pieces, now, using the criminal decisions of the arbitration court, the appeals district of Odessa, the eight-acre sanatorium is also divided. What does this law do? I looked, there's no mechanism, it's going to be, the land is going to be owned by the city community, so they're going to sell out until the next election. In Odessa, there's nothing to sell, the price of hundreds of land has risen: in Arcadia, to $32,000, in other places to the Fountain, to $10,000 per hundred. Is it what they're fighting for or not?Oh, my God! And that you're not suggesting anything here in this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u160	This law cannot solve all environmental problems. And about the problem that you've identified today, it's really important. For the seas, it's the construction of coastal lanes and there's rivers. And we need to make changes to the Earth Code and to the Water Code, and we are now preparing such changes in our committee. The task, as you can see, of the ecological network, is something else, although the natural angles that are not present today are human anthropogenic activity. And there are tools -- this is the General Environmental Network Scheme of Ukraine, which we're going to approve on the Supreme Council. So we need to influence this process today, how this decision is going to be made at the level of local government, at the level of areas and at the level of areas. If we do not show indifference, we will do what we have planned, and then we will not talk about what Mr. Carmazin rightly says.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u161	Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u162	Please pass the word to Grzezhev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u163	National Deputy Grzezhev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u164	Dear Ivan Alexandrovich, I think you will agree that the environmental problem of its importance can only be compared to the food problem. As the basis of every person's life. The Socialist faction will certainly support this bill, since the issue of environmental integrity is one of our party's programme intentions. And that's the question. The Supreme Council has adopted many laws governing environmental issues. Why are they not fully implemented and are such a fate awaited by the bill under the current authority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u165	I agree with you that we have laws and very many good laws, but unfortunately we don't have the authority to want or want to do these laws. That is why there is such a problem in making decisions. The Supreme Council held several parliamentary hearings on environmental issues, including the adoption of excellent recommendations, but these recommendations are not being implemented by the government today. Therefore, we need to do the same to strengthen the work of our committee in order to monitor the implementation of these decisions. And that's the way it's supposed to be. That in state policy, the environmental component must be strengthened. Sadly, we see other examples. The European Conference of Ministers of the Environment in Kiev did not take place for two weeks, as the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources said in the jargon language "explored". They're breaking up again. Why? In order to weaken environmental policies so that they do not prevent them from plundering and sharing national wealth today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u166	Basil Nadrag, People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u167	Dear Ivan Alexandrovich, to be precise, this bill "provides benefits", i.e. benefits for enterprises that "encourage conservation and rational use of the environmental network". This is about lowering the land tax, obtaining concessional loans. We're not gonna make it, like in the late '80s, the early '90s? They said, "We'll create small businesses, we'll give them benefits, and we'll have production, and jobs, and everything else." Unfortunately, things are much more modest. And after this bill, we're all going to do something about maintaining the environmental network.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u168	No, that is not the issue in this law. But the question that you outlined today stands. We really need to build a system of economic mechanisms that will stimulate conservation resources that will stimulate environmental protection. This law does not solve this issue. We will still have to make decisions in the system of other laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u169	Anatoly Frost, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u170	Dear John Alexanderovich, well again, I think we're discussing a draft law, you said in your speech that the Cabinet of Ministers would form an environmental network, and I think it would be like we always did -- we're going to adopt the law, then we're going to go ahead with this law, well, like now -- we're talking about the environmental network. Would it not be more appropriate, along with the draft law, to introduce a draft environmental network so that every MP could see that he was discussing what he was up to? And what will the people of Ukraine, or our constituents, have from this law? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u171	It's a very correct question, but it's already been resolved, because back in 2000, when I was the minister of ecology and natural resources, the Supreme Council approved a program for our submission, a state-wide programme for the formation of a national environmental network, where it's about the allocation of certain objects, certain structures. Today, on our part, Parliament needs to monitor the implementation of this programme.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u172	Taras Cranville, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u173	Your Honor, I'm going to make some critical remarks to the law, but I have a question. This law is part of a wide, necessary field of environmental laws. Has it been examined as to whether it contradicts or complements it? And what's your attitude: shouldn't we ever go to a single environmental code where it's all unified so there's less variation? And the second is a very short question. So I understand that some of the costs, and some of the constraints on income coming, especially the same land tax, are on the back of local budgets, according to the Constitution, if we delegate something to them, we should delegate the source of revenue or the direct transfer from the State Budget do you somehow foresee how to do that?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u174	First question. In line with the recommendation of parliamentary hearings, the task of creating an environmental code is now being done, particularly by the Law Institute. But there's a very small danger, the environmental code -- it can't be, it can't be, it can't be the integration of existing environmental legislation, the environmental code has to bring new ideologies, the ideology of integrated management of all the complex natural resources of land, water, forests and nadrama. Sadly, such an understanding is not available today. It's not common, but I think the environmental code is going to be created, and it's not going to be that long, and this new ideology has to be present, it's going to be the heart of this environmental code. The practice so far shows that our government is going backwards, not in Europe, but in what way at all. The second question. It's a tax issue, it's a question of payment and so on. Dear friends! In my presentation, I emphasized that at present the ecological network should be built on the basis of the vast majority of the natural reserve. Therefore, all these tax matters and others today are regulated by proper legislation. So at this first stage of this big change in the taxation system, there's not going to be any funding system, but in the future, if the network is already created, if it starts to function, we might even be asking questions about how to allocate the land to an environmental network into a special category of land. Like land, such as agriculture or land, such as railways or some other type of land. So in the future, we will look for answers to these questions. But today we need to preserve what we have inherited from our parents and grandparents. That's what we should be worried about. And we have to think about what we're going to pass on to our children today, to our offspring.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u175	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Time's up. Let's move on to the discussion. Please state the names of the National Deputies on the board that they have signed up for the discussion. We'll have a discussion in 14 hours, right? Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. Prepare the People's Deputy Shirko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u176	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to the authors of this law and to the national deputy of the Hare, Shershun, Solomon for introducing this law, once again, I say that he is a little late. And the law itself solves a lot of issues that focus on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on this network. In fact, the law on Ukraine's environmental network is today the law on survival of the Ukrainian people, the law on the future of our people. Whether we have a future. Of course, there are suggestions, and I fully share the proposals that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority has made, in particular, that, for the sake of clarity, in order to give this law more form of reading, it is necessary to show and that it regulates this law-law, organizational and economic principles of activity related to regulating social relations in the sphere of formation, preservation and rationality. use of the environmental network. This must be written down. In addition, it is essential to strengthen the public control provided for in this law in article 20, “Public participation in the formation, conservation and use of the environmental network”. I don't know why I got out of here in law enforcement, I think it should be written that the Attorney General of Ukraine is overseeing compliance with this law, and that would be very correct. And I'd like us to predict that the use and enforcement of this law by the local self-government authorities were carried out by the higher bodies in the vertical direction. Because in fact today there is nothing to be done with the scrape that is being done in places, there is no mechanism for reacting. This mechanism should be foreseen here. And I think we should take this law literally to the first and second readings, and immediately ask questions about its implementation, about its entry into force now. He does not need additional funds, but he can stop the looting and destruction of our navels, atmosphere, water and other natural resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u177	Yuri Wide faction of our Ukraine, please. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u178	Yuri Shirko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party, town of Raven. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow MP. Today, on the third day of the Holy Trinity, by discussing this law, I want to draw society's attention to the superficial attitude of power towards the preservation of the environment, especially of the local executive power. Is it necessary to pass an environmental network law? How much have natural resources been preserved in our country? Whether you can name a number of cases when you dismantle fillings, parking lots, asphalt factories in cities, and plant trees or plant grass in their places. That is a question that many of you have raised with a smile, and that is fair. Because it always happens the other way around: they cut out trees and build gas stations, parks, villas, and tear down the banks of rivers instead of using the existing grill more effectively. There's no way they can get rid of the bad example shown by Bolsheviks who, after the so-called reunification of the 39th year, the first thing they did, they cut out the woods around my hometown for one reason, because it was close to driving to the train station. It was time to take care of the conservation of natural landscapes, those islands called living nature, because it is not a secret that the use of “page” is ineffective. And even those small resources that the State receives for its use, not for the restoration of natural resources, are used for purposes that benefit neither nature nor humans. There's always an excuse. This is usually an economic merit. Although why should it rule out environmental security? So creating an environmental network is giving nature the ability to do what people have to do but not do. Coastal protection strips will contribute to the recovery of water resources, foresting will save land from erosion, and green leaves will clear the air. Whole economy will help to preserve and regenerate the animal world. The adoption of such a law will encourage more efficient use of land and other natural resources. Of course, this law won't solve environmental problems, because there's nothing wrong with the natural reserve, with water protection zones and wetlands. In addition, little effective use of the authority of effective conservation laws has been added. And yet this is a step forward. So I urge you to support the Ukrainian Environmental Network Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u179	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine has a word. Prepare for Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u180	Vladimir Cherniak, faction “Our Ukraine”, Ukrainian National Party. Dear colleagues! In Ukraine there is the destruction of natural potential, the destruction of natural landscapes, the destruction of natural diversity. This is, of course, sad and puts us under an obligation, at least, to put an end to it. The environmental network is a complex of areas where natural landscapes are preserved. This is the nature-inhibiting area, this is the wetlands. Well, it's basically a territory where nature can reproduce itself, and we want to help nature reproduce itself. And save nature. The main focus in the law is conservation, nature conservation. We should thank the representative of the Hare, the deputy of Shershun, and the deputy of Samofoloski, who passed this bill. By the way, I want to mark the legislative initiatives of the rabbit MP in this direction, and I'm surprised why the legislative authorities don't actively support it, he's already proposed a lot of bills, he has a lot of experience, he was the minister of ecology. I'd say the Rabbit is a lion of Ukrainian nature. And that's why he's on nature's watch. Of course, I don't want to say that the bill solves all the problems and it doesn't claim that. He has a certain subject, a protective one, above all. Of course, in order to solve other problems of nature’s protection, we need to make changes to the earth’s code. We need to make changes to the Water Code. We need to develop a comprehensive, systematic nature protection program, and this is already the government's job to do it. To some extent, I can say that the law is declarative. In particular, I think we should put in the process of preparing the bill for second reading a bold emphasis on the question of. on land rights for these natural landscapes. We see in Trachtomirov's example of how the reserves are being destroyed, we see in Kancha-Sleep's example of how this is done. We have many examples of negatives. Because we have to make sure that we don't share this land, we don't steal it, we don't stretch it, we don't destroy it -- that's the question. Also, I think we need to ask more clearly about the mechanism of control over the implementation of this law, the responsibility for compliance, and of course the sanction. Sanctions must fall irreversibly like the sword of the House. If our laws do not contain the sword of the House, they will never be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u181	Thank you. Taras Blackwall, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u182	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I'll say I'm going to vote in favour of this law in the first reading. But he will be praised and praised by many, and I will stop at critical moments. First. I'm painfully taking any piece of legislation, in this case I'm afraid that this law is not getting close to us, but it's moving away from the Environmental Code, it's going to have to be accepted anyway. The other one. The law has a whole series of textual and normative moments that are not enough for me to write well. First. The law actually forms almost as a base for a whole sector. So in End Positions, you don't just have to write what the Cabinet of Ministers is going to do, but write down what laws are going to change, because a completely new system is being created. The law as basic is to carry in itself a preamble that should be clear enough to spell out the orientation of this law. Because even if you don't, you can't be sure what an environmental network is or is a system of conservation organizations or something. By the way, the name itself is not as valid as I am, but it's no longer the problem of the authors of this law, because it's been introduced a little longer into Ukrainian legislation. From this form, I think we should leave a little bit. The structure of the environmental network here is fairly detailed, but if you approach it with a desire, you can bring the entire territory of Ukraine to the environmental network, according to this law. If you go in a different direction of desire, you can limit it very severely, that if you want me to do this, it requires not more detail than here, but more precise writing. Science and expertise, as I see it, is quite appropriate to mention that a number of norms are very well spelled out in the law on Ukraine's national environmental network programme 2000-2015. And it's not being implemented today. If it were to be done, there would be no need to adopt this law. So whether we have guarantees in this regard of both government and our law - abiding subjects, this law will also be fulfilled. With regard to a number of important articles, they are written in a sufficiently decorative manner and on the rules of exile. This is the 13th, the 14th about science and science and regulation. And the 6th, the 7th, about ownership rights and the land that goes into the environmental network. How can you do that? With such a very superficial write-off to save or any other place that falls within the scope of this law. Similarly, in a number of other articles on this subject. And the last one that's particularly important to me. I say again, in the first reading, I am voting, but if the second reading does not provide a compensation system for local self - government authorities, the loss they will suffer in connection with the adoption of this law, I will personally advertise in general, this law will not be passed. There's a lot of damage. Mr. Ivan Hare is a bit wrong. This is a land congregation, which is a benefit to the owners, who go to a large extent into the local budget. We must clearly lay down in this law that all the losses of the local budgets to be caused by this law must be compensated by the State budget for the corresponding transfers. Then a free soul can be voted on as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u183	Vladimir Puzakov. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u184	A faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradstina. The issue raised today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is very relevant. Let's look at article 2 of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2003. It is stated, however, that the income of the budget represents 30 per cent of the environmental pollution charge. In the event that the law is not revised, the State Fund for the Protection of the Environment is effectively eliminated. If anyone has forgotten, I would like to recall that this fund finances the environmental activities provided for by the Ukrainian Act on a Statewide Programme for the Treatment of Toxic Wastes, the State-wide programme for the creation of Ukraine's national environmental network for 2000-2015 and a number of other environmental programmes. In view of the current distribution of environmental pollution charges, it would probably be appropriate to keep the State Fund for the Protection of the Environment, with an allocation of 30 per cent, and the second, to make proposals for the redeployment of the remaining funds as follows: 50 per cent to local budgets, 20 per cent to the budgets of the areas. That is, areas where pollution occurs directly should be able to finance planned environmental programmes accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-17-m0.u185	Yes, Your Honor, the matter has been discussed. Decisions on the draft law on Ukraine's environmental network will be made on the day of the vote. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00.
