ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:34]] Registered -430 A total of 430 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 30 minutes to make statements, messages, information from Ukrainian national deputies. I'd like the National MPs to sign up for the performances while I announce the parliamentary requests that have come. Is there no objection? Please indicate on board the names of the national deputies who have been registered. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. People's Deputies — Gavrish, Salmin and others — to the President of Ukraine regarding the restoration of production capacity and the technological modernization of the Kalusz company Lukor. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:06]] For 105 The decision is not taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the introduction of the post of Assistant Adviser to the National Deputy of Ukraine to the Classification of Occupations and the Manual of Typical Professional Characteristics of the Offices of State Officials. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:44]] For 218. Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the ambiguous interpretation by the tax authorities of the implementation of the State Publications Order No. 557 of 22 April 2003 on the calculation of part of their income to the special fund of the state budget of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:25]] For the 180. Decision taken. Raisy of Bogotyrov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure by the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine to pay off the debt to the Luganskoglgreses Association for coal. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:03]] For 113 Decision taken. Leonidas Sergienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the delay of international vehicles at the Krakovets customs office. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:38]] For 177 Decision taken. Mikhail Kosova to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitr Tobacco, on speeding up development and introducing a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the definition of deported Ukrainian population, forced displacement in 1944-46 and 1951 from Poland to Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:18]] For-138 Decision taken. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the material and technical provision of the Ugandan district hospital in the Hersonian region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:45]] For-125 Decision taken. Jury Kostenka to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine for the construction and operation of the Mironovska Deep Mine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:15]] For the 110. Decision taken. Group of National Deputies - Katerinchuk, Ignatenko, Omelchenko - to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of land violations in the shares company of the Ždanivski Hmilnicki district of the Winnicki region. [[10:08:45]] For-92 Decision taken. Mikoli Sokirko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of the law by the officials of the Prosecutor's Office of the Winnicki District in the investigation of a criminal case involving a court-medical expert in the area of Yampil. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:21]] For 104 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev on violations of the Constitution of Ukraine by colleagues of the Pecher District Police Department. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:51]] For-94 Decision taken. Anatoly of Domansky to the head of the Court of Appeal of Dnipropetrovsk district regarding violations of the procedural code in the decision of the court. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:19]] For-123 Decision taken. Jury Kostenka, head of the State Committee on Municipal Economy of Ukraine, on the reform of the housing and utilities of the city of Herson. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:49]] For-140. Decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski to the head of the Chief Audit Authority for the avoidance of employees of the management from investigating the theft of state property of the Koktebel Building of Creativity. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:22]] For-149 Decision taken. Leonidas Vernigora to the head of the Suma District State Administration of the Suma Region regarding the delay in considering the claim made by Sapoval to rent a fishing pond. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:58]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Oleg Tragnibok to the head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine on the confirmation of the existence of a related note to the head of the DPA Ukraine Kravchenk signed by the head of the DPA in the Lviv region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:34]] For-154 Decision taken. Oleg Tajnibok to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the content of the relevant DPA note to Kravchenk from the head of the DPA in the Lviv region. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. About the direction, more precisely, sorry, about the direction of the query. [[10:13:12]] For-162 Decision taken. Requests are all put to the vote. Let's move on to the performances. Leukko Lukyanenko, a faction of the Yuli bloc, Timoshenko, has to prepare for the silent procession of the NDP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u2	The Julia Timoshenko faction. Please give the voice to the school of Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u3	Andrew Schlell. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u4	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! I wanted to start out with information that they might know, maybe they forgot, because the political struggle against the struggles that are in the state will cause the oblivion of certain dates to be forgotten. Today, May 21st is Georgia Gongadze's birthday. The name Georgia Gongadze is associated with a remarkable and important page in our history. This is the beginning of the struggle for democracy in Ukraine, for freedom of speech, for the beginning of the fight against the existing regime and the state of things. This person is also associated with the bright pages of Ukrainian journalism that we cannot forget and miss. So I'd like us to think of a good man today, a great journalist and just a nice guy, George Gongadze. I know that his mutilated body, those grits, now and you know it, is still unburied, because we can't find part of George Gongadze's body. You can imagine what a tragedy and grief this is for his mother. I'd like to, I'd like to ask the attention of the people's deputies, I'd like to call the people's deputies today, and now for a moment of silence to mention the honor of George Gongadze, I'm asking you to stand up. I think it's sooner or later, but Ukrainian history, the Ukrainian state will give proper, proper credit to George Gongadze. Because right now, today, we don't have any answers, we just have questions. We have a country where journalists are killed, we have a country where there are political prisoners, we have a country where no question is given a clear answer. We have law enforcement agencies that don't defend the law, we have structures that are called to protect the law, and they don't. I believe the last years are coming, the last months of the struggle for Ukrainian statehood, and we will finally win it. I would like to believe that we will have it by 2004. But at least I am convinced that nothing can stop the course of history, nothing can stop the astronomical passage of time, and in 2004 we will have a new President, a new power, a new Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u5	The word is given by the national MP Mojcan, a faction of the NDP. Get ready, Mother, the faction. I'm sorry, the people's MP Mokchan is giving the floor to the Zarubinsky MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues, guests, journalists! On February 4, 2003, from this rostrum, I proposed to initiate the proclamation of the Black Sea and the Azov Seas as a nuclear - free zone and to begin negotiations with the countries of the Black Sea and to begin working on a corresponding treaty under UN and MAGATE. In particular, it's a ban on the storage, stay and transit of trans-border movement of any kind of nuclear material as objects that can cause harm or threaten the destruction of the environment, and thus the threat to the lives of the population and the animal world. This would also mean producing a common legal regime for all participants in a special regime of mutual control. This would, in our view, be in full accord with the national interests of the neighbours of the Black Sea and Asian Basin, which would encourage a climate of security for peaceful and mutually beneficial cooperation in accordance with generally accepted principles and norms of international law. At the same time, this would help to curb the illicit circulation of nuclear materials. More than three months have passed, and neither is there any position on this important issue for Ukraine. It seems to follow the scheme of the mushroom "Woe of the Mind": "What would Mary Alexeevna say?" It is not clear that it is time for us to get rid of in the foreign policy of a multi-cost complex, which apparently sat in the minds of some politicians and state men, who were once well understood that the foreign policy of one of the founders of the UN of the Ukrainian RSR is really a butaphorium against the real decisions, tactics and strategies of international relations that are being developed in the International C.C.C.P.R.S.R.R.D. They've been interpreted differently and in different institutions. Some of them apparently went out the window into the Memorial of the Virgin Islands. There is reason to believe that they continue to interpret today. The difference is that it is now made not of one capital but of several. To whom? Hence, the indiscreet identification of a second - class, secondary subject of international politics that responds to what has already taken place without its real involvement. If we, Ukraine, do not finally start to work ahead of time by scientifically predicting future events, trends and their developments in the world, not learning to model and design diagrams and dispositions for Ukraine and to offer them effectively to others, we will always, at best, enjoy the splashes of champagne from the cups of those who view ourselves as the primary subjects of international politics. However, such a prospect may be appropriate, since it is known that only the Memorial of the Virgin Islands has been destroyed, and the postage has remained. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u7	The word is given by Vitaly Ivanovich Majko, a faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the "Trouble Ukraine". Get ready for Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u8	A deputy faction of the political parties of the Ukrainian industry and entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! On April 22, this year, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine adopted Decree No. 557 on the regulations and procedures for the incorporation into the special fund of the State Budget of Ukraine of part of the revenue of the state. and time-consuming enterprises and their associations. According to this regulation, the net profit accounting rule for the listed category of enterprises as a result of financial and economic activity in 2002 and quarterly net profit deductions during 2003 are set at 15 per cent. The government acted formally under article 52 of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2003 Act, which refers to the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers as the right to determine the rules and order for the calculation of the net profit of state-owned, non-corporated casino enterprises to the special fund of the State Budget. If the authors of this paper had fully analyzed the economic situation of state-owned enterprises, casinos, and its consequences, this fiscal action, they would have realized that most businesses would not be able to withstand such tax burdens. I would point out that there is actually another tax now on a net profit of 15 percent, while the company has fulfilled its tax obligations to the State by paying 30 percent of the income tax. If we leave it the way it is, then tomorrow most of the government's productions, paying 15 percent of last year's revenue in 2002 and that much in the first quarter of this year, will just stop because we're taking the last negotiable money from them. Our leaders of many state companies, including the Kyiv Aviation Plant, the late radio - measuring plant, many companies in Kirovograd, the Horn of Creature, Poltavščina, and other areas, are asking us to avoid such a catastrophe. It can be safely argued that the Supreme Council and the government have played down the already low investment attractiveness index of public enterprises, violating a number of Ukraines that guarantee equal rights to economic operators of all forms of property and prohibits tax collection in this way, that is, in the current year of the past. The parliamentary factions of the political parties "Industry and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine" and "Trudova Ukraine" are proposing to review their approach to addressing the issue, including the drafting of bills on amendments and additions to the State Budget Act 2003 of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u9	The word is given to Victor Teren, the Block of Julius Timoshenko. To prepare Kostinyuk, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u10	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished listeners! I want to remind you that on December 6, last year, a decision was taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold a Government Day on how to solve the problem of refunding money to fraudulent masters of trusts. I remind you that the hearing was to take place on 14 May of this year, according to this decree. According to the decree adopted. I remind you that, however, on the Conciliation Board on May 13th, after the presentation of the deputies, most of the questions were referred. So we didn't even want to hear about the problem. We don't know when it was transferred, the question of what it was called is buried. And what I'm saying is that once the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling is adopted, clearly, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, it can only be overturned by the next decree, it's an axioma. That is, the Conciliation Council cannot replace the functions of the Supreme Council and take the courage and will not, thus, implement the decision of the Supreme Council, the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I want to remind you that the question of trusts is very painful, because today, in Ukraine, four or six million, according to various estimates, are being cheated on by trust investors. You know what happened after Prime Minister Leonid Kuchma signed the trust decree. And that's how the question hangs today. I want to say that today the committee is probably the second year, starting with the last summons, there is a law, a bill that proposes a solution to this problem. Authors - Timoshenko, Turkinov, Teren. To this day, there is no reason for this question. Why? Perhaps because, for example, Maurodi was caught in Moscow and planted there. Where he should sit. So our Maurodis are sitting either in the Bank's or in this sessional room, and it's very uncomfortable for someone to address this issue. I want to say that this question is inconvenient to address, and because Janukovic, who is obviously going to claim to the Presidents, has nothing to say, there is nothing to say about how this matter is being resolved. But this question requires that it be heard at least. I would like to ask, Your Honor Alexander Alexiyyovich, that a decision be taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and that it be specifically decided when will be the Government's Day of Return on Savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u11	Thank you. The word is Bogdan Ivanovich Kostinyuk, "Our Ukraine" faction. Get ready for Lebedinski, "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u13	Jaroslav Kenzior has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u14	Honorable colleagues, national MPs, the problem I want to raise, at first glance, is a local problem, local problem, but unfortunately, our local efforts to influence and decide whether to fix this problem unfortunately do not produce any results. And that's why I've come to the conclusion that this is a problem that I need to hear from the Supreme Council. It is the repression that is being carried out in the Lviv City Council and on the part of the city’s head, Lviv Lubomir Bunjak. A man who will never understand how to work a city's head, but to work with city council deputies, he can't get rid of the leadership he used as the CEO of the "Friendship" oil pipeline and then build the Odessa-Boda oil pipeline. A person who ignores the law, a person who has enough reason to release any employee from the city council for belonging to another party, particularly the Ukrainian People's Movement party, to organize the Ukrainian electoral bloc. Both Zinova Guzar and Bogdan Bedrillo, Igor Mikitin, were freed from such motives. Last Thursday, a city council session took place where Sikhov district administration chief Roman Bodnar dared not even to criticize but to make a few critical remarks about the mayor’s activities and performance. The next day, the city chief put out an ultimatum for Roman Bodnar to write a release application in a three-day period because, you see, he's like a member of the Mesquiconian team and he dared to sound some flaws in the work and the city's head and the executive council. I also felt that I had my own practice of communicating with the city’s head. Two questions, I sent to the city council management's address requiring a transcript of the city council's session. The month passed about the second request, the deadlines for the city's administration to send materials to me on my MP's request, all ignored. I don't see any other way of asking the Attorney General, the Attorney General's Office today, to consider the request to be a parliamentary request and to try to edit today's CEO of the city of Lviv Lubomir Bunjak and make him respect the law and honor the MPs of the city council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u15	The word is given to the People's Deputy of Lebedovsky, "Our Ukraine", to prepare Nightshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u16	Dear Chief, I would like to give the floor to the deputy, Mr. Volodymyr Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u17	Please, Vladimir Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u18	Dear National Deputies, Our Ukraine faction, the Ukrainian People's Party. As a member of the Supervisory Board of the Ukrainian Savings Bank under the quota of the Supreme Council, I am obliged to inform you of the alarming situation that has arisen at the Savings Bank. Same reason as the bank "Ukraine." Extradition of hopeless and problematic loans to their people. On the basis of the Bank’s audit, the National Bank concluded that the bank’s capital was actually lost because of its loss of credit. I would stress that this is the conclusion of the National Bank of Ukraine. By the way, the National Bank has long been worried about the situation at the Savings Bank. According to the National Bank’s data on April 1, this year, the amount of doubtful loans from the Savings Bank amounts to 254.5 million dollars, and the amount of problematic loans is $238.7 million. Thus, the loss of the savings bank’s assets amounts to half a billion dollars. The lack of capital, which puts the bank on the verge of default, has led to the destruction of the State guarantee mechanism for the savings and increased risk of budget losses, as this will come from the State budget. What was the mechanism for issuing hopeless loans? In particular, loans were issued, and corporate securities were taken in return for bankruptcy companies, which is essentially garbage. Such loans were issued mainly to sugar factories, as well as to some engineering and energy companies, credits were issued to businesses that are now in liquidation and bankruptcy. As a result, the loss of assets amounted to 76 million dollars, leaving papers in the bank instead. A hopeless loan of 15 million dollars was issued to Ukraine. The loss of 77 million dollars was due to the lending of a savings bank to the State. All of this has affected the creation of the savings bank’s reserves. According to the National Bank’s audit of the Savings Bank on April 1, this year, reserves amounting to 211.4 million dollars amounting to only 48.3 dollars. The National Bank of Ukraine considers the lack of capital to be a major disadvantage in the activities of the Bank, the Savings Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u19	Vladimir Mikolaiovich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u20	I'm done. Low quality credit portfolios, poor asset structure, insufficient level of risk reserves, lack of performance of most economic standards due to lack of capital, high level of risk of budget losses. And a lack of management. I am also concerned that if the National Bank is alarmed, Parliament should also be beaten. That's why I'm speaking on this stand today, which is why I'm asking for 20 seconds. First.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u21	Volodymyr Mikolajovic, regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u22	Obligation the government of the Savings Bank to develop a program for the recovery and development of the bank. The other one. To rotate the members of the Supervisory Board by the quota of the Supreme Council. Third. Create a special control commission. Fourth. Contact the Attorney General's Office to oversee the Bank's activities in the interests of the State, since it is a state bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u23	Clearly, Michael Petrovich Noshchenko has the Word. Prepare a member of the Council of the Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u24	I beg you to pass the word of Shurm Igor Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u25	The word has the national member of the Shurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u26	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear colleagues! Today’s talk forced me to do an event that took place on Friday’s 16th when the work in this room ended. The rhetoric, the language, the conduct of some of the audience in the hall was inappropriate, and this fell on the shoulders of the responsible officials of the Office of Organizing the Plenary Meetings of the Supreme Council. In my speech, I would like to draw your attention to some inadequacy of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council in plenary mode with specific rules of the Rules. In particular, this is about the inadequate level of implementation of the right of MPs to participate in the discussion of day-to-day issues in plenary meetings. Article 4.2, paragraph 3, is well known. 3 The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine establish that each parliamentary faction, a group, is guaranteed the right to speak out of all matters of order at meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and its organs. It is this rule of the Rules that establishes the right to give the floor first in the discussion of issues to the national deputies who are authorized to speak from the faction. Unfortunately, it should be noted that in our plenary work there has been a practice that has often been used mechanically by members of the national parliaments to discuss matters solely in the light of the orderliness of submitting written applications for a speech. And there is no factor in determining who is exercising their right to speak, either as an individual MP or as a member of the MP. We refer to the Presidency, taking into account the requirements of article 4.2, paragraph 3. 3 The Supreme Council Rules give the highest priority to address the issue of day-to-day order in plenary meetings to the factions according to the order of the factions and then only to proceed to the speeches of the individual national deputies. The second problem, as we seem to have to correct, relates to the organization of a simplified procedure. Again, the Rules provide for article 3.4, paragraph 3. 2 that the brief discussion includes statements by representatives of two MP factions -- I emphasize factions -- to support each proposal. And representatives of two MP factions to support it. I mean. This rule excludes cases where 2 and 3 representatives of one faction participate in a discussion of the same issue in the course of a brief discussion. And that is what we are witnessing daily. And the last. We believe that factions should be given the guaranteed right to speak to their representative in the discussion of parliamentary hearings and government days. To this end, we request that the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council, together with the Legal Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, prepare and review appropriate changes to the regulatory documents governing the conduct of government days and parliamentary hearings. In the part concerning the participation of MPs in these actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u27	Anatoly Mikolaiovich Moroz, a faction of Communists, has the word. Prepare the Turk, Block Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u28	Thank you, but please pass the word to Boris Illy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u29	Boris Ilchi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Can you imagine, for example, that the Louvre or the Ermatage were headed by the orderly hat engineers? And the National Reserve of Sofia Kyivska, which equals the same Louvre and Hermitage, is blocked by a graduate of the Moscow Railway Institute. Last year, part of the wall of Sofia’s cathedral collapsed as a result of digging a foundation under a well - known pool. There were threatening cracks in the Sofia Congregation at the bell tower and the gate of the congregation as a result of the construction of underground garages and commercial buildings on the perimeter of the reserve area. All of this has given UNESCO reason to challenge the exclusion of the Sofia Congregation from the list of the 100 most valuable monuments of the world under the protection of this institution. The city’s head, Kyiv, responded appropriately by releasing the head of the department from memory, culture, and history. Regrettably, the Holdbud reacts in a cowardly way, perhaps because one of the closest to leading in the past is an employee of a colony of reinforced regimes. As long as we think of it, in less than three years, a few dozen employees have been released from the state reserve, including deserving scientists and cultures, doctors and candidates, recognized professionals. People took their place, some of them much closer to the commercial sphere than science to culture. Undivorced with regard to financial and personnel violations, the public has signalled both to the highest authorities and to the Department of Economic Crime and the Tax Police, and to the KRA and the Accounting Chamber. Unfortunately, it's corrupting so far. I don't call names because it's not as much a matter of personnel as it is a nihilism that pervades the spirit realm and compromises the image of the country in a civilized world. Then, I call on the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Culture, the National Academy of Sciences, the State to save the country's and the world's shrine, the National Preservational Sofia Kyivska from destruction. And that's only possible when high-class scientists, true patriots, come to leadership as soon as possible, so it's not too late. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u31	Thank you, Boris Illich. The word is given by the Turkish national deputy. Prepare Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u32	Dear Chief, please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine on the third and fourth convocation, member of the factions of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, doctor of sociological sciences, Professor Valentin Sergiyovich Zubov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u33	Valentin Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u34	Respectable People's Deputies. Today in this room, as you know, we will be scheduled to hold parliamentary hearings on one of the most painful problems in our country, namely, with the demographic situation in our country. Unfortunately, I have not been able to sign up and I am very grateful to Alexander Valentine's Day, who gave me his word so that I can give some thought on this matter. Thus, over the past 12 years, the population of Ukraine has decreased by 4.5 million. These figures show, firstly, the horrendous magnitude of the tragedy of our people today, the people of Ukraine; and secondly, they show the harmfulness of the course that Ukraine is taking today and that is being pursued by the supreme leadership of the country today. Thus, 4.5 million people are paid by the people of Ukraine for the economic experiments of President Kuchma and his team. The worst part is that we're used to these numbers. It's no accident that someone great said that the death of one person is a tragedy, the death of millions is statistics. No wonder, then, that today the whole world is watching for the development of an atypical pneumonia and is horribly counting the number of regular victims, and is doing so correctly, and at the same time indifferently, it is watching, at the heart of Europe, that in the center of Europe, the country disappeared in twelve years, died prematurely, died 4.5 million! Human beings. Isn't that genocide against your own people? I say again, I have not been able to sign up for this statement. I am simply asking all of you, who will participate in parliamentary hearings, today we must examine in the most careful way the causes of this terrible tragedy. We must work out concrete measures today to address this crisis. Most importantly, we must ask today about the responsibility of the individual responsible. I do not agree with those television broadcasters, the media, who need to address this issue without undue politicization. If we go this way, if we don't realize that the tragedy of every person in Ukraine is our own personal tragedy, we will come back to having Parliamentary hearings formally, making purely formal decisions, and nothing - we will not stop this tragedy. Therefore, I very much ask all of you, distinguished colleagues, to treat today's parliamentary hearings not formally.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u35	Thank you. The word has the national representative of Puzakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u36	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština My statement will begin with an apology to the President of Ukraine for his concern. The thing is, Mr. President, even though you're fighting for a substantial increase in power, it's not obvious. This is the second time I've asked the Attorney General Svetoslav Mikhailovich about the incursions of the Kirovogradsadvinprom Corporation and the Valley Tax Inspectorate for the V.A.T. "The Valley Fertile." But his subjects, without careful investigation, were treated with a formal reference. By what time will the abusive treatment of the people’s distressing problems flourish? And you, Mr. President, are going to go to the European house. My voters who have called doubt that you have no one to go to a European house with, and you can't go there with this team because they're constantly misleading you. In that case, I would advise to include the leader of the Sadvinprom Corporation with him, and there will be no problems with the finances, because the Valley Fertilizer, which is part of the Kirovogradsadvinprom Corporation and is financially dependent on his leadership, forced him to account for his own Phoenix 2000 company's 50,000 bracelets for allegedly grown, no less than in one night's production of gardeners, which was never mentioned. Of course, these 50,000 have been counted, but the state has not received them. For the 2001-2002 planters' produce, the corporation owed the Valley Fertile 523,000 dollars, which had not been accounted for until now. All the work of the Kirovogradsadvinprom Corporation and the Valley Tax Inspectorate in Chernyavsky's person is aimed at the total destruction of ZAT's farm "The Fertilizer". I also refer to the head of the concert "Ukrsandvinprom" by Rybak Anatolia Vasilovich to halt the inaction and fraud of the manager of "Kirovogradsadvinprom" in relation to the Valley Fertile. It may be time to conduct a thorough investigation and to settle the wage with the workers of the fertilizer. Dear Holy Michaelovich, I ask you once again to conduct an examination of the problems raised and to make the right decision. And I'd like you to count this as a parliamentary request to Attorney General Piscoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u37	Thank you. Member requests and applications have been announced. I call on the Secretariat to draw attention to the proposals made today in the speeches of the National Deputies, the National Deputies to prepare the texts of the respective statements and to address them accordingly for the vote in the Hall. And I'd like to go to Valentin Grigorovovich, and today, three times, we have to think about asking the regulatory committee about the government's day techniques, the factions in the discussion, because we have to think about it all the time. Let's move on to the agenda. A draft Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure, document No. 3456-1, is being announced for consideration. Please. From the procedure, please turn on the microphone of the people’s representative of Žebrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u38	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm very surprised by this bill that we're about to discuss with the Supreme Council on Monday, which is the decision of the committee on Tuesday, the conclusion of the Scientific and Scientific Administration, and today's bill. The bill is very extensive, no one has ever met it, no one has seen it today, and for the first time in sight it is seen, a substantial and effective law, perhaps, for today. And today we're bringing it into the Supreme Council for discussion. I've been introducing a bill in March, and I don't know how many proposals I've taken into account, and we haven't considered it today. How will we discuss the bill today?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u39	I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u40	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, in fact, according to the Rules we should vote today on the inclusion of this bill in the agenda. It is only included in the schedule of meetings for today. So the author of the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u41	But we have the work of a working group and you know that we don't have the first day of processing this more important document. So please, Vladimir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u42	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished national deputies. The protection of the rights and legitimate interests of citizens, legal persons and society as a whole is impossible without a properly regulated and organized criminal procedure. The specificity of criminal procedure law is that the smallest deviations from democratic or humanistic principles can lead to a significant violation of human rights, of the interests of society as a whole, and damage to the authority of the State as a whole. It is no coincidence that the fundamental principles of the criminal process are embodied in a number of international instruments for the protection of human rights and freedoms. The restoration of Ukrainian statehood, the reorientation of society's interests to human values, the process of Ukraine's accession to the European Community, these and other objective factors have made it essential to reform Ukraine's current criminal process. The preparation of the draft Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure was attended by leading scientists from our state, practitioners from the Supreme Court, the Attorney-General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service, the State Tax Administration, the Ministry of Justice and others. The Criminal Procedure Codes of other States, including the Russian Federation and the European countries of continental law, were studied and taken into account. Observations and suggestions from a number of government institutions, educational institutions, well - known scientists, and practitioners. The materials of court practice, the results of scientific research, the position of international legal instruments were used. Among the major novels of the project is the maximum approximation of international standards to ensure the principles of competition, presumption of innocence, respect for the rights and freedoms of members of the judiciary, the role of the prosecution, the authorities and the judicial investigation and the court. Regulation on procedures for closing cases on non-rehabilitative grounds. The draft Code preserves the basic institutions of national criminal and procedural law that correspond to democratic principles, the characteristics of the development of Ukrainian society, which will ensure the positive perception of the new Code by law enforcement officials, courts, and other lawyers' lawyers. Now, briefly to the specific provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. The draft sets out the principles of the judiciary for all those contained in the Constitution of Ukraine and in international legal acts. This is a court, a prosecutor, an investigator, a researcher and so on. For the first time in criminal law, an investigating judge is introduced. This is a figure of judicial authority who will exercise judicial control over the judicial investigation. In particular, this investigating judge is going to sanction the procedural coercion, the sanctions on arrest, the taking in custody, the taking out, the taking out, the trespassing, or other possession of the person, and so on. The following judge will also review the complaints and decide on the complaints against the investigator’s procedural actions. I'm the investigator. The project clearly defines the role of the prosecutor in criminal justice, and his role exactly corresponds to article 121 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which defines the power of the prosecutor in the state. As far as the criminal process is concerned, the prosecutor takes sides in the process, in the competition, and supervises compliance with the laws in the course of the investigation and the previous investigation. The project clearly defines the role of the protector in the case, indicating who may be the protector of the criminal process. A section that regulates precautions is important. The number of precautions has been increased by ensuring that the extreme precautionary action, such as the taking under watch, is used as little as possible. Among the novels in preventive measures, I would call home arrest, handing over the person under police supervision, removing the person from office. An important role has been played in the section "Provide in Criminal Justice". The emphasis is placed on constitutional positions regarding the presumption of innocence, that the individual is not obliged to prove his innocence in the matter. And special attention is given to the provision of article 62 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the so - called family immunity or the right of a person not to testify against himself or against the relatives and loved ones around whom the law defines himself. The project sets out the kinds of criminal persecution. For the first time in science, it's passed on to the law. We offer to have public criminal persecution and so - called private public persecution. Privately public persecution affects not serious crimes and they are clearly defined, and they are listed in a separate article of the draft Criminal Procedure Code. Chapters that touch the case. The trial is divided into the previous and the main, and the draft clearly defines the procedure for the implementation of both the previous and the main court proceedings. These chapters contain a number of novels that Ukraine did not know about the criminal process. These novels must first be referred to a simplified judicial review of the case. The project foresees that when a person pleads guilty to a crime and the evidence of a judicial investigation indicates that the confession is voluntary and given without pressure or outside influence, the court may limit itself to questioning the defendant, examining evidence, and passing judgment. What is true about the imposition of such punishment may be assigned to a person no more than two thirds of the maximum term provided for in the article of the criminal law. In some cases, a judicial hearing may not take place. The project foresees that if, at the conclusion of the pretrial investigation or in the preparatory part of the main judicial proceedings, the accused submits a complaint not to listen to the case but to pass a judgment on the basis of an examination of the evidence available, the court may pass a judgment without judicial review of the case. True, this involves crimes of small and medium severity. For the first time in criminal proceedings, a jury court is established in Ukraine. The chapter regulates the selection of jury, trial, jury, survey letter, and the limits of the jury’s jurisdiction. The jury has reached a verdict — that's what they call their decision on a criminal case. The jury answers only two questions about whether there has been an event in which the person is accused and the second answer is whether the defendant is guilty in these actions. After the verdict has been reached, their rulings continue, i.e. the verdict of the jury is binding on the presiding officer only on these two points: whether there has been an event and whether the defendant is guilty of the events. After all, in the qualifications of the jury, in burdensome circumstances, the presiding officer is not bound by the jury’s thinking and still passes judgment on the matter. Those circumstances, which are evident in the verdict, are not deciphered, the judge states that the defendant’s guilt is established by the verdict of the jury. Another novelty, a verdict passed by a jury, is not subject to appeal. That is, you can only appeal to a court of cassation to verify the correct application of criminal and procedural law to the presiding judge. The codex pays great attention, in the draft code, to judicial review of criminal matters. The revision is foreseen for several species. First it's an appeal, then a cassation. For the first time, re-cassation is provided in criminal matters. And one more facility of the court, one more, is to check the court's decisions in the order of exclusive conduct. This order is foreseen when the case of exclusive conduct has been violated by a prosecutor who has to carry out further investigations into circumstances that warrant exclusive conduct. This position of criminal review, according to the project’s authors, actually makes it impossible for a judicial error to exist in the case. I've named you five ways to test a court order. Other chapters of the draft Criminal Procedure Code deal with amnesty regulations, pardons, rehabilitation of a person, the Criminal Procedure Code on matters related to international relations, extradition, transfer and acceptance of convicted persons and so on. In general, there are 699 articles in 62 chapters of the draft. A right-wing colleague of Zebrovsky's, and I say, as one of the authors of this law, the code requires substantial work. Dear colleagues, such haste in the introduction of the bill into the session room is called upon by nothing else as a desire to make the code the best, but for this we wanted to do the first reading and we understand that much more work on the code will be done during its consideration in the second reading. And I say, the committee, the working group, where I'm the deputy manager, ready for your suggestions, for your comments, and explaining that we're going to consider that we don't count and why. Thank you for your attention. I would like to express my special thanks to the members of all the working groups involved in the drafting of this codex. I'll tell you one more thing, the codex is a conglomerate, it's a collection of various draft criminal codes that have been prepared for almost a decade in different institutions. You will see in the agenda that you have been offered the Criminal Procedure Code, which was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The position of this codex has been introduced into our project, and the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Hennady Andrievich Vasiliev, has had a conversation with Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, and they are ready to withdraw their project because their project is almost entirely incorporated into our project. Thank you for your attention and for participating in the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u43	Thank you, Volodymyr Romanovich. Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. It's a recording. Please turn on Anatoly Dmitrovitch Grzezhev's microphone, the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u44	Please pass the word to Nikolaenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u45	Please enable Stanislav Mikolaiovich Nikolayenko, Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u46	Thank you. Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Vladimir Romanovich! Of course, you have a great deal of experience in court practice and other practices, but I have a question for you. I also have no less experience in nine years of working as a national deputy when I see what kind of judicial burden is going on in the investigation of criminal cases or other criminal cases, and I see gross violations of legislation, when a person can be under investigation, in the CPZ to sit, say, a year, and two, and such cases and now I have. So I'd like to ask you a question: How does the introduction of this new Code of Criminal Procedure rule out these infamous phenomena when we keep a person in custody and we can't bring charges against him because we can't do some petty follow-up on our own? Who will be responsible for this, and how will all of this speed up the trial? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u47	Dear Stanislav Mikolaiovich, you have indeed asked a question that concerns many criminal cases. And I'll tell you this: So far, the so-called little judicial reform has introduced some important influence on the insidious investigators and prosecutors in order to prevent persons from being held in custody without a court order. First. And second, in order to maximize the crime of punishment, criminal punishment is effective. So what are the proposals in this project? First of all, keeping a watch is carried out and proposed in the project only by a court decision. The continuation of custody periods is carried out by the relevant courts all the way to the Supreme Court, but the extension of custody periods is carried out in agreement with the relevant prosecutor. Thus, the prosecutor is involved in the process of overseeing cases and keeping persons in custody. And the third. The court’s reaction to such facts, where a person is held in custody or uncontained, does not end the case of his accusation by the court. And another novelty, we've told the investigator before, we don't have to collect 200-toms, 100-toms cases, if there's a fact that's being proved, a person has to be punished for this episode, and then either case is being investigated or other cases are being investigated without a violation of a specific case, or a custody term.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u48	Sergei Petrovich Gmira, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u49	Thank you. Vladimir Ivanovich, I have three technical questions on the jury's behalf and one principled. Technical issues are such. First. How is the jury formed? Second, what is the basis of the vote, consensus or simple majority. Question three. What are the consequences of the jury's decision? It's technical. It's a matter of principle. In modern times, the judges are somehow formally protected and we know the pressure they are under. How the jury is protected, because I'm afraid that in today's circumstances, the jury can vote the way someone needs it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u50	Dear colleague, this is really a new situation and I'll tell you that jury courts as a court, as a structure in different legal systems exist in different ways, you know. There is an American and an Anglo-French system, that is, where the jury participates with the chairman in the hearing of the case and the system that we offer, where they decide separately from the chairman. What are the consequences if the jury makes a mixed decision? There's a special chapter, it's in Project 43, it's a so-called, polling letter, among the jurors, it's chosen, let's call a brigade, a senior, a senior jury, it doesn't matter in principle, and he's in turn asking one question of two that might be in the questionnaire. Was there an incident in which the person was accused? The other one. Is the defendant guilty of this event? If the jury’s conclusion is ambiguous or equally unambiguous one, it is also one that is not supported by the Chief. The project foresees: The presiding officer, at a mixed conclusion, disqualifies the jury and appoints a new panel of jurors. With regard to equality, the jury of the national jury has the same rights as the professional judge in criminal matters at the time of the judges ’ duties. But I understand your question, not all of you have been able to get acquainted with the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u51	Thank you, Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, please. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u52	Dear Volodymyr Romanovich! You said that the bill needed substantial work, but you didn't express your opinion on that and you didn't comment on the committee's position. I think it's important for us to make a decision. You probably don't have enough time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u53	Dear Volodymyr Kirilovich! Time is enough, I'll tell you that there's a conclusion from the Science and Technology Office that a project can be recommended for first reading. Yesterday, a meeting of the Committee on Law Enforcement was held, and the committee decided to recommend it for first reading and then work on it. Logic-formally, technical-legally, it can be conceptual. The main points are more editorial, I'll say, the project is conceptually consistent with the Constitution and international legal norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u54	Thank you, Vladimir Romanovich, done. Procedural questions, thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. The word has a national MP, Melniczuk Faction of the SPE, to prepare Carmazin. I don't see a national MP. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u55	Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region There is a complaint here that the bill has not been submitted in good time, there are other complaints and, of course, there are national MPs in this right. But there is also an urgent need to consider a bill that is submitted under the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. Actually, getting to know a little bit earlier, about two weeks ago, with this bill, although it was handed out to some today, it had before me, I think that the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, I think the person who was interested could have taken it earlier. As a matter of fact, when I was drafting a bill on the system that was submitted to me, I was also watching this bill that was passed out today. Actually, the Criminal Procedure Code reinforces the development of constitutional principles in the country in some moments. There are so many concepts that are very attractive among them is the introduction of an investigative judge who will determine the legal introduction. And I think that this rule is absolutely necessary today, then we will not have the kind of case that Ukraine's national deputies would have from the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. In general, if a court decision is taken or a judicial investigation is made, such an investigating judge will have a major impact on the decisions of certain matters. In this case, decisions taken by the prosecutor’s office or the district attorneys should be prevented. I think it's interesting today to see chapter 45 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which introduces a new concept of the specificity of criminal continuum. They are persons who have committed crimes in the territory of Ukraine, they are meant to break out of its borders and avoid appearances to the authorities of investigation and court. So with the adoption of this Criminal Procedure Code, the need for Ukrainian oligarchs to have double, triple citizenship will be eliminated. It is also an attractive article in chapter 484 of the 45th, which provides for the order of a court-martial. Chapter 46: "Several handling of juvenile delinquency cases" and such a list can be continued. I therefore believe that the adoption of this Criminal Procedure Code by Ukraine is essential today for the implementation of judicial action in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u56	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy Karmazin. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u57	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! Finally, over the last six to seven years, the work done on the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code has been completed, and today it has been reported to you. Of course, this codex will have. There must be a broad discussion and its acceptance or non-admission will have serious consequences for Ukraine, because we live under the Criminal Procedure Code as early as 1960. And I would like to point out in particular that in this code there are very strong and well-written articles in the General Part concerning the equality of the parties to the trial before the Law and the Court. This is in article 9. It is said that the prosecutor, the defendant, the defender, the victims, as well as the civil prosecutor, the civil defendant and their representatives have equal rights, responsibilities, and, above all, the possibility of giving evidence to participate in their investigation, of declaring troubles, and so forth. [[For the first time, by the way, so serious.]] Today, this is exactly why people complain all the time. Here we see separately the respect for the honor and dignity of the individual, because today people are just shouting, shouting, and complaining that the judges are somehow insulting them with dignity and dignity, and that they have no right to do so. The provision of guarantees to individuals who are provided for by the Constitution, including the inviolability of housing, constitutional rights, is particularly concerned with the illegality of all forms of listening that are currently under way, including the opposition and all of whose phones are being listened to and, even by the national MPs. At the end of the day, a point is placed on the issue of publicity. The law allows us to use technical means to fix the process, and you know what happens to maras in separate courts when constitutional authority is prohibited. At the same time, I believe that there is a question of ensuring the independence of investigators, especially when they are in the IMF system, in the Security Service system or in the tax police system, and you know that the Constitution obliges you to have an investigative apparatus, a system of pretrial investigation. And we're not introducing this system yet. I have a lot of doubts about the effectiveness of jury conduct, because the Russian Federation has shown that it works ineffectively there and they don't know how to turn down this institution. And we want to step on these rakes and hit them seven times, because there's got to be seven jurors. I think this should be the subject of discussion and we need to improve this codex. Of course, we won't be able to look at it quickly, but it was hoped that, as of January 1, 2004, it would come into force, with all our amendments, it would be published and also studied, and studied by students, and studied by law enforcement officials. I support the adoption of this codex in the first reading, so that it can be thoroughly worked out and worked in three readings, accepted in three readings, and perhaps even in books. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u58	Thank you. Vladimir Aleksandrovich Yavorowski has the floor. Prepare the national deputy to Bandurki.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u59	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine", Viktor Yushchenka's Block, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky district, Lvivščina, Head of the National Association of Ukrainian Writers. I'll tell you why I named this title. I support this bill, and I believe that in judicial reform it is a very tangible and truly democratic step. I thought that this bill would be adopted in the first reading, that I would go through appropriate procedures, and that I would be accepted in the second reading. And I went up to this rostrum and I asked for words on what occasion, and I want our electorate and national MPs to hear it. Dear colleagues, dear people, Ukrainians! You know very well that today we have practically everything that could have been taken from the Ukrainians in Ukraine. National wealth is either adopted or controlled by oligarchs, and there is virtually no information space in Ukraine. We still have some values that have seemed unbroken and untouchable. But it turns out that's not true. Last night in the newspaper Kiev Telegraph, there's a newspaper published by the national deputy, Andry Derkac, who sits here, it's his newspaper, an assassination, perhaps on the most sacred thing they have in Ukraine, nothing more brutal, dirtyer about Taras Shevchenk, about our Ukrainian genius, which may be today this pseudo-independent pseudo-Ukraine, but it's still what might have left Ukraine alive in the 20th century and in the 20th century, such an abomination, such a filth; if it had been written about Pushkin in Russia, today the whole of Russia would have stood on the stakes. Shevchenka is accused of hating Ukraine, Shevchenka is accused of hating people, Shevchenka is accused of smelling onion and self-demeanor, and I say again, it's a newspaper published by National MP Andry Derkach. How can this be allowed into a civilized country? Tomorrow we open the Chewchenki Spring Festivals, which is the authorities of Shevchenka who want to take him away from us, to turn him into, you know, the title of this article -- "Angel with the Coats," where they accuse Shevchenka that he is sitting after his exile, but Droguncs is sitting in the dormitory, and I say to him that he knows it perfectly well, after the expulsion of Shevchenko -- "why didn't he go to Ukraine if he loved her so much and went to St. Petersburg?" And the ignorantly, the Shevchenki was already prescribed, he was still sitting in Lower Novgorod, waiting for two weeks to be allowed to come to St. Petersburg, and he accuses him of hating Ukraine. I say again, it's a huge stain on the conscience of the Ukrainian oligarchs. You and the Ukrainian people of Taras Shevchenk, our sanctuary, our genius will never be taken away! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u60	The word is "Deminicatives" by the Bandurka People's Deminicatives. Get ready for Blackie, "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u61	The Honourable Chief, Honourable People's Deputies, the draft Criminal Procedure Code, which is presented for your consideration, is the result of collective work. 60 people - scientists, national deputies, practitioners - participated in the drafting of this bill, and a great deal of work was done by the head of the working committee, National Deputy Vasiliev Hennaday Andriyovich, a lawyer known to you. In the Code, many of the money of those who are now driven by the choice of ways to build our state, including European integration, international communication. And the draft code is completely, in my opinion, consistent with the Constitution. In particular, there is a clear definition of the place, the role, the concept and the function of the pretrial investigation, which is just mentioned in the Constitution, here is the decryption, the clear regulation of the trial itself, the enforcement measures of a precautionary nature, they are quite flexible and amplitude are quite broad and investigative, and the judicial, regulation of the legal activities of the joint investigational and operational groups. And the main emphasis is on protecting the rights and freedoms of the individual and the citizen in criminal justice, not only the accused, as it was a violation of the previous code, but above all the victims. This is the person who seeks to establish the truth and to exercise justice. It is very important that the draft code clearly provides for the legal regulation of the international cooperation of Ukrainian law enforcement agencies in criminal proceedings, that what today is simply a "white spot", we are working with some well-known instructions or at our own discretion. In my opinion, it is poorly written down, and we need to look more closely at the role and place of the prosecutor’s office. There is a section of the Public Prosecutor's Office, there is a separate law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, and there is today the role and place of the Public Prosecutor's Office provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure, and there are differences between them. I think Hennaday Andriyovich and Vladimir Romanovich are going to have to go back to this chapter. I'm going to propose, my dear fellows, tomorrow to adopt the codex in the first reading to open up the green light on its work, taking into account the comments that will certainly be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u62	Thank you. The word is Cherniak, "Our Ukraine." Get ready for Drogunzov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, the Criminal Procedure Code is read as a detective, it contains text, context and subtext. And by reading the text, the context, and the subtext, it makes a positive impression. I share the view that this is an important step in judicial reform, where there is a lot of money adapted to the situation of our bill is consistent with the Constitution and international standards, which are very important, where international standards are re-adapted to our specific conditions, and there is a positive impression that the bill is prepared on the basis of many years of scientific development. So it didn't just come out of the air in an empty city, it's got a lot of scientists behind it, people who've developed these problems, professionals, professionals, professionals, it feels, this thoroughness, I'd say fundamentalism. I'd say that's one of the examples of Ukrainian fundamentalism. I think that we should want Parliament to achieve this fundamentalism in our development and, of course, that it is practical for them to be guided by these practical mechanisms. This fundamentalism is being combined in the bill with concreteization, with the development of specific mechanisms. Maybe it doesn't always sound convincing, and sometimes denial does, but at least trying, trying to write it all out, leading to the mechanisms that are clear and the questions that are here that testify to it. This is a positive one. New concepts such as the investigating judge are introduced. Specialities in criminal matters and others. There is a type of criminal prosecution that defines the role of the prosecutor in this process. The jury has been tried. Some people think it might be inappropriate, but for us it's a new question, and maybe we should try it out, for example, I tend to try it, but it's a positive experience. There is a provision for a criminal audit in order to avoid a judicial error, which is very important. There are many of these in the Code that are aimed at avoiding judicial errors, and you know that is an unpleasant fact of our jurisprudence. In general, as I said before, I share the opinion of those who spoke to me here that the bill deserves a positive assessment. It has some contradictions, contradictions between other bills that need to be removed, some internal contradictions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u64	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u65	In particular, regarding the role and place of the prosecutor in the trial, this can be resolved in the process of preparing for the second reading. In my view, there is every reason to adopt the codex in the first reading. Thank you, for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u66	Thank you. Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov has the word. Communist Party. Get ready for the People's Choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u67	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the Honourable Head! I'm not as optimistic as my predecessor with that rostrum. I just want to say that the Criminal Procedure Code is really the result of a long and very difficult work. But I can't give him a clear assessment today, and I think that next to the positive money, the novels, the know-how, this is where all of these words are used, he's got those that cause anxiety or caution. And on the last one, I'd like to stop in contrast to my predecessor, who made it during the presentation of the Bandurka deputy to study the draft Code of Criminal Procedure. I have not been able to do so, so I cannot judge every article contained here, but what does it warn? According to Moses ’ report, if the defendant in the court and in the investigation had confessed his guilt, he could be convicted without a detailed review of the case on the basis of his own confession, his own guilt and, as a result, reduced the sentence to 1/3, i.e. by leaving 2/3 of the sentence to be imposed under the article, by their population for the crime committed. [[Listen to what this money is.]] Dear friends! But it's nothing more than a confession as the main evidence. This was based on their time of repression. How did the means of influence apply to him or not? Maybe you know what to do: put it on your head, or you could say we'll crucify your lover tomorrow, and he'll take it all on himself. Can recognition be the main evidence in the trial? I think it's money of questionable order. And the second is that I heard it from the reporter again. Anyone who does not want the matter to be dealt with from beginning to end in court may declare it, and then the court will pass judgment without question. Well, what is it, people are good. Do you want these articles to apply to you? And I'll find a way to get you to refuse, and you won't even admit it. So that's my conclusion. This bill should not be hasty with him, because if you're in a hurry, you can look at it in a simplified way: two-for-two-again. [[For example, a black man for]] [[I'll be the one]] What's the deal? I propose to send the bill back to read again. We'll all get to know him. Well, fundamentally, because it's a fundamental document. I'm not about fundamentalism, I'm about fundamentalism.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u68	Sergey Ivanovich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u70	Thank you. We finished the discussion. I'm sorry, there was more. He's got a word from "The People's Choice."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u71	Dear People's Choice, Lugansk Region. Dear colleagues! The first reading of any code is to consider the concept and, therefore, when issues arise during the discussions today, it is thought that we should first discuss the main element. These are the two main issues that I would like to focus on. This is a problem that the Code of Criminal Procedure is not all legislation that concerns this area. Anyway. There are separate laws on law enforcement agencies, there are relevant laws, I am no longer talking about the Constitution, about human rights and freedoms, and it seems to me to date that, in the context of the finalization of this procedural code to the second and, above all, to the third reading, it is absolutely necessary to monitor the situation and to close it so that these laws are totally compatible with each other so that we do not have any inconsistencies. If we have any setbacks, it will give rise to the same abuses, variances and all that gives rise to another discrepancy between the laws and regulations. That's the first problem. The second problem, which I think would require particularly careful consideration and detailed work if we were to talk about the preparation of the bill for the next second reading. This is certainly a mechanism, because if we just set up tasks, determine responsibility and everything else, but there will be no real mechanism of protection for a person who, God forbids, is in this situation when the Code of Criminal Procedure begins to apply, it is unfortunate that you know that a private citizen is not always able to protect himself. And such examples, unfortunately, are more than enough. Similarly, here is the establishment of a mechanism of responsibility and protection, I believe that the main thing must be that when we talk about what the Code of Criminal Procedure is and the protection of a particular person, a specific citizen, who, I repeat, does not give God, begins to live in conditions when the Code of Criminal Procedure or this sphere begins to concern him. And the next one could be the final moment. Deeply convinced that a mechanism should also be elaborated in detail in the Code of Criminal Procedure, I stress that it is the mechanism for protecting a citizen from unscrupulous employees of law enforcement agencies who fall under or under judicial procedure. That is, we must establish a protection mechanism for a citizen and we must establish a mechanism whereby those with authority under this Code of Criminal Procedure will know their responsibilities and, very little, this responsibility will be as irresistible as that of the entire law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u72	Thank you. Is there a need for the government to comment on this? _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you. I just want to say a few words. The point is that today there is still an official government project that has not been called off by the government. And the thing is, there are procedures for this kind of withdrawal. Secondly, with regard to the project under consideration, I would first like to point out that unfortunately, the Ministry of Justice didn't have enough time to make detailed remarks, because it only came to the Ministry after lunch yesterday. But it can only be noted that much of the situation is of the same nature as the position contained in the Ukrainian Ministry of Justice project. The point is that these works, they really did start a few years ago and they were based on a project that was developed by a working group under the supervision of today's Chief of Staff of the Supreme Court of Paintenka. So these positions are really tested and verified enough. But in order to make specific proposals, we're going to need time at the Ministry of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u73	Thank you. I would just like to confirm the point that was already being made here, that the agreement had been reached on the withdrawal of the Cabinet document. We finished the discussion. If the reporter, Vladimir Romanovich Moses, does he not insist? Don't you insist? Thank you. The decision will be made tomorrow. Let's move on to the next question. The draft Law on the National Programme of Technical Refurbishment, Prospective and Social Development of the State Militaryly Firearms Rescue and Rescue Service of the Ministry of Ukraine on Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the Chernobyl Disaster 2004-2008 is under review. This is document No. 2477. Reporter - Head of the Committee on Environmental, Environmental Policy, Environmental and Disaster Management - Strebko Stanislav Kirilovich. We have 45 minutes to answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u74	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! You have before you a bill on the National Programme for Technical Refurbishment, Prospective and Social Development of the State Militaryly Armed Mining and Rescue Service of the Ministry of Ukraine on Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the Chernobyl Disaster 2004-2008 since 29 November 2002. The state-owned and mining service was formed by the Ministry to implement a decree of 30 March 1998 by the Cabinet of Ministers on the transfer to the Ministry of Emergency Affairs and Protection of the Population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster of paramilitary mining formations. The mining and rescue systems on which the service was formed were narrow and were able to respond to only 10 types of emergency situations and served 89 potentially dangerous objects, 71 of which were underground and numbered fewer than 500 people. In 2000, units of a newly created state-owned emergency search and rescue service were deployed to provide emergency and rescue services in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and five areas of the Western region. A new phase of service development was created in 2001 by a biological defence platoon located in the town of Kahouka in the Hersonian region. The platoon processed and destroyed the middle of the area -- over 2,295 hectares of silgopodium on July 19, 2002. In five years of service creation and development, it has become multi-profile, capable of responding to 90 kinds of emergencies and of acting on an assignment in dealing with emergency situations of local, regional, and state level objects. The departments located in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, in the 18 regions of Ukraine, the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol, serve over 700 potentially dangerous objects. The Service Management is carrying out a headquarters located in Kiev through the headquarters of the paramilitary mining and rescue units of the South, Central and Western regions, which consists of 16 emergency rescue teams. including 39 platoons, 168 wards, 21 emergency search and rescue sites for tourists and crash teams. The total number of services is about 2.5 thousand. professional lifeguards, commanders and auxiliary personnel. In fact, more than 31,000 people were trained in prevention. Preventive testing of serviced objects. More than 176 thousand have been identified and removed by the Service. There are more than 3,000 violations of labour rules and regulations. Work that threatened the lives of the workers was stopped. The estimated cost of prejudiced material damage is more than 76 million. A bracelet, not counting the lifesavers of human life. The design of a technical transformation programme for the future and social development of the mining service was also envisaged by a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 11 August 1999 on measures to improve the efficiency of mining services. Today, the current High Council task force of September 11, 2002, at its meeting, heard information about the work of the headquarters and noted that the existing material and technical base continues to be far behind in increasing the functionality of the service, which hinders its further development. The result of the decision was a bill that we are considering today, which was introduced by a group of national committee members. In the process of construction, services have been found and are being implemented with new principles for the integration of emergency rescue forces into the development of regional emergency rescue formations with the dual subordination of the INS of Ukraine and the local executive authorities. Such formations are regional teams of constant readiness that combine the efforts and capabilities of the local authorities and are able to provide all the needs for emergency and rescue services in the state's regions. At this time, the folded teams of constant readiness function or improve their expansion in seven regions — the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Zakarpatski, Mikolaiivsk, Lugansk, and Herson. The bill was presented to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, and received positive conclusions from the Committees on Budget Affairs, Economic Policy, People's Agriculture, Property and Investment, Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with the participation of MNS, Minfin, Mineconomy, Minprompolicies and the Ministau, reviewed the bill and generally supported it with some comments that will be taken into account in the first reading of the project and accept it as a basis. The total amount of funding for the public - government project is about 108 million dollars for five years, with some 90 million dollars of equipment and domestic production to support domestic production. The implementation of the state-wide programme will provide a significant reduction in the timing of emergency rescue work and more effective preventive measures to reduce the loss of the consequences of an emergency and to reduce human loss. Under the growing aging process of basic consumer funds, the ratio of natural resources, the number of technological accidents, natural disasters and other extraordinary situations, as statistics show, is increasing annually, and this requires that the response forces in all regions of the country are always ready. We do not have the moral right today to delay and to adopt this bill in view of the fact that funding for resupply and social development of the service should go into effect in 2004. Dear colleagues! Please accept this law as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u75	Thank you, Stanislav Kirilovich. Is there a question for the reporter? I see what it is. A question mark is being recorded. Let me explain. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u76	Stanislav Kirilovich, you said that the service is capable of responding to 90 kinds of emergencies. And how many are there that she can't react to? That's the first one. The other one. How do you assess the degree of adequacy and effectiveness of responding to emergencies? What criteria can be defined in this regard? And the last. What a financial side to it. How much does that cost if we put this bill in place?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u77	I'll start with the money. This bill requires 180 million dollars over three years. And part of the response is 90 reactions, almost all the exceptions with which the emergency rescue service is constantly working. If we resupply, this emergency rescue service can solve all the problems that arise at this time and even in the future. These are already prepared chapters, going to reorganize these units, if we financially support this law, we're going to adopt this law, this emergency rescue service is going to solve all the problems that will arise in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u78	Mikhailo Antonovich Pavlovski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u79	I'm, uh, thank you. Dear Stanislav Kirilovich! You tell me, please. I'm looking, here's the equipment list. What Ukraine can do is already written in English. So tell me, where does the law say that the 90 million will go into their own production? The way I look at it, it's going to go overseas. Where is this reflected in the bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u80	In this bill, 90,000, they're basically going to go to our companies that are going to restock all of these units. But there's not a lot of technical equipment that we don't have yet. It's not just in the emergency services and in other industries we're still buying abroad, but 90 percent, it's our companies that will be providing our rescue teams.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u81	Are you done?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u82	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u83	Please, National Deputy, Šibko Vitali Jakovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u84	Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Stanislav Kirilovich, you understand well that much depends, which is the squadron of this mining rescuer. I wanted to ask you, do you have any comparative data on the cost of our mining lifeguard's crew and how much of what's working abroad? Because that's the service, and I know very well that I'm branched out in the entire mining sector of foreign countries. So we can compare and say in this same way, how effectively are we going to work in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u85	I don't have that kind of information right now. When we consider this issue in the second reading, and when we say it in the first reading, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u86	National member of the Shurm, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u87	Igor Šurma, Ukraine's Social Democratic Party [[united]] Dear Stanislav Kirilovich! The total amount of funding for the programme from 2004 to 2008 is over 100 million at the expense of the budget. In view of the limited financial resources of Ukraine’s State budget, the funding costs of the programme could lead to an increase in the deficit. But that's not the point. The draft technical equipment programme for forward-looking and social development proposed by the bill is not essentially state-owned but refers to the development programme of individual sectors. Thus, the proposed program can be approved at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers by making the appropriate decision. Why is this issue raised at the level of the Supreme Council?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! You can see that in recent years, especially in recent years, the emergency rescue service has increased significantly. And those natural disasters that we have today, they still need to bring it to the level of the Supreme Council, to establish and work on this law, to improve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u89	Thank you, Stanislav Kirilovich. The answer to the question is complete. Let's move on to the discussion. The first word is given to Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u90	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Honorable People’s Deputies, Multitude Ukrainian People! Now he's always under a lot of pressure that there must be some kind of technological catastrophe. I am determined that we are all equipped, well equipped, so that the Department of Emergency Affairs units are well equipped. But now there's a separate question, a completely separate question. This is the state-owned mining and rescue service of the Ukrainian Ministry of Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, and it's written under it by the state-owned technology resupply program for forward and social development. The question was already asked, and the question was, essentially, this is a sectoral program. It's absolutely industry, and it's clear to everyone, it's going to be 2,000 people. What state-wide program is written for 2,000 people? People are good! Well, the Supreme Council isn't a sewer! There's a government, there's a whole Prime Minister who had his own decision to approve and please re-supply this is a matter of executive power. That's it. 188 million plan then into the budget, bet, divide by three years as you like, and we propose that the Supreme Council approve such stages. Paragraph 9 is to be phased out of the operation of motor vehicles and special equipment that is exhausted and morally outdated and is not useful. And we write to the artists: Minfin, MHC and so on. So, what's our deal? What have we done in the Ministry of Defense? And in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, where were the 600,000 people we did this, the issue of restocking? Should we not refurnish the Ministry of Defense? You should. Should such a program be approved? You should. Should the Ministry of Internal Affairs be reincarnated today? You should. And I'm in charge of solving these problems today, but these problems need to be solved so as not to lower the level of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the highest legislative body by decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And here Mr. Shurma was rightly asked the question that, indeed, this is a matter of industry. So I think it's necessary, but it has to be adopted at a completely different level, because it's not a matter of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u91	Anatoly Dmitrovitch Grzezhev, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, has the floor. Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u92	Anatoly Grázev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, distinguished by Alexander Aleksevic. I personally intend to vote in favour of the proposed bill. And it's not because I'm a member of a profile committee on this issue. Because we socialists always rely on arguments when making decisions. The arguments in his favor are, in my view, important and convincing. Let me name just a few. First. Article 3 of the Ukrainian Constitution defines the highest social value of human life, health and security. The draft Act on Refurbishment and Development of the Rescue Service will help address this critical problem. That's why we have to accept it if you want. Second. Grievous statistics on the deaths of people as a result of the accidents and disasters that we have cannot help but worry the deputies and remain without effective measures to overcome or mitigate them. The draft law provided hope for a better dynamic in the matter and should therefore be adopted. Third. The current rescue base does not meet the current requirements for various reasons and, above all, the economic collapse. Unfortunately, it is. Despite significant and positive developments in its development, it is now able to respond to 90 of the 141 emergency situations identified by the State Classification. Of course, that's insane. The adoption of this law will slightly improve the technical state of the rescue service and thus allow for a more rapid, more qualified and, above all, more efficient rescue work. And finally, fourth. The moral and ethical side of the matter. People will die. It's a tragedy. Each of us is always genuinely concerned about the pain and grief of the victims. And now we have the opportunity through the adoption of this bill to reduce the level of possible human suffering. The problem is the issue of financing. Clearly, it is not sufficient, it is not timely, and it is sometimes ineffective. Hence, their rational use is a very fundamental problem. I believe it is correct if we define the Government's mine rescue service as the main manager of the programme. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt this bill as a basis tomorrow, and given that comments and proposals have not been received and supported by all, it can be accepted as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u93	Thank you. The word is given to Michael Antonovich Pavlovski and then we will take a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished representatives of the government, members of the national parliament, and in particular, I address our constituents! I want to remind everyone that we want to join the WTO, there are developed states. And in developed nations, there are laws, and in the United States in particular, Nan Luger's law. This law states that the U.S. budget is not allowed to be channelled to finance foreign firms. So we need to set an example. And if we're going to make money out of the budget, all the costs should go to the manufacturer. What's more, honorable, as they say, is that technology and a little bit of understanding. There's no equipment here, anything that Ukraine can't do. You need analytical Earthlabs, all of these, that's what you'll do, we have this Analyst Enterprise, an institution that will do anything, and better samples are competitive. Do you need me? What can't they do to you? The scooter is written there, and it's already written in English. Open page 14. Of the thirteen positions, six are already indicated. Ukraine is known in the world as one of the leaders, the designer of the instrument, both solid and whatever. We already want to buy a tool abroad. So, Your Honor, we need to get out of what we're doing today, we've stopped everything today, we're out of what we can do. And since the program is a few years old, it must be predicted. And that's why I'm proposing, contrary to these remarks, which were, this program is actually going to make it a state-wide one. This is where the Ministry of Industrial Policy has to be written, because there's manufacturing enterprises, that's what it is. And so it should be run by not only the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Minfin, but also by the Ministry of Industrial Policy, because the main part goes to hardware and manufacturing. The committee should be not just an environmental committee, but a committee of industrial policy. So we have to reflect that. And so everywhere I go, I put the Ministry of Industrial Policy in here with them. And you have to write from the beginning. Well, in the end, we have to get used to American standards. So you have to write in the regulation, I want the authors to do it themselves, the third point is that the costs that are allocated from the budget are channelled exclusively to their own manufacturer and contractor. And then this law can really be adopted. So I don't agree with Karmazin or anyone who's narrow. It's not narrow, it embraces many directions, it's praise to God that such programs are designed and need to be supported by initiators, but the funds need to be guaranteed to be directed to their own manufacturer, because today there is such a possibility for everyone to go abroad to the last piece. You can't do that. So you can't accept it in general. I mean, you can't. It should be accepted in the first reading and taken into account the suggestions I offer from the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc. Everything has to be directed where there's some money, some problem -- everything needs to be used to activate its own forces, its own potential to bring us back to life. We'll live on another man's, we'll be beggars.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u95	Thank you. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes. The first after the break is by Vladimir Kirilovich Černjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u96	Dear friends, the Secretariat. Please invite us to continue our work. We agreed that we would continue the discussion, we would continue the consideration of question No. 2477. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, faction of "Our Ukraine", is invited to prepare for the School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. Today, we are discussing an extremely sharp and important issue. There can be no trifle where people die. It's a mining service. You know, we have a lot of accidents, disasters, people dying, and we need to take measures to stop this process, at least to reduce it. We now have a mining service that responds to 90 kinds of emergency situations of 141 species, so it's primarily a task to be able to respond to all kinds of emergency situations. Secondly, we need to ensure that the emergency response of the mining service is adequate and effective. And that's what the proposed programme for technical refurbishment of the future and social development of the state-owned paramilitary, emergency and rescue service of the Ministry of Ukraine on emergency and population protection issues against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster is aimed at. The programme is planned for 2004-2008. Here's a discussion about which program, whether it's a state-wide or a sector-wide, I think it's a rhetorical question, in fact it's a state-wide issue, taking into account all its weight and all its acuteness. We will not now, as they say, touch the words “we need such a program, a program of technical refuelling”. Because in the situation in which this ministry is located, it is unable to perform its functions. And so there was a need to technically resupply the mining service. So in general, I support this bill, and I think it should be accepted in the first reading. At the same time, I would like to support the proposal made by the Pavlovsky deputy regarding the need for funds to be allocated from the budget to the technical refuelling programme, to maximize the directing of domestic producers in order to enable them to create jobs, to provide jobs and to use domestic technology and technology wherever possible. Of course, I wouldn't point out that there are only cases where you have to buy some very important high technology, technology if there's a need, you have to do it, but you have to do it as an exception. So, in my opinion, the bill can be adopted in the first reading, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u98	Thank you. Please prepare Melniczuk, an SPO.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u99	Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko’s faction, Ukrainian National Assembly I would like to point out, in the course of previous speeches, first of all, that when we think about it, each of us, from the national MPs, this bill, we just have to understand that it's a program, that it was necessary to do it long enough. I understand why this is happening now. Because the prime minister must have changed, and he realized that this was to be done. It was more of an initiative from here. But the resupply has to happen all the time. We can't refurnish and say that everything, that's what we've done, and we've been resting for 20 years. This is the service that saves people. We have every ounce of coal going with blood if we count the number of victims per tonne of coal. The color of the miner should not be the pink, red and black color of the coal and the red color of the blood that was spilled for him. Therefore, the resupply must be a permanent government program, that is to say, to determine the plank and to keep it ready, to continuously conduct the resupply process. It goes on to say: forward-looking development. So I think that's the word "prespective" and we need to put in constant control of the level of equipment of this service, constant control. It also says: The social development of the state military. This is also a very inconsequential question. He too should be emphasized. But, of course, I would like to support Pavlovsky, Mr. Cherniak, for what we have to say when we talk about restocking the country’s militia or special assignment, or the mining service, this service, we need to remember that, first of all, the budget should be directed to domestic production, first of all. If it's not there, this analogy, then you can advertise a tender and buy imported equipment. But the best thing, of course, is to create for us here, because then the resupply process will be independent of circumstances independent of customs tariffs, independent of the external political situation. And these services have to have a completely autonomous supply structure that is essential and therefore resupply. So I think that the first reading and the second reading and the third reading should be accelerated. We're going to fix it, but this bill, which is this draft of the Law on State-wide Refurbishment, should have been adopted a few years ago. And it's important, it's important, we can't say any other words than support. Rarely, I say, are such bills rarely to be put on a table by a national MP, where there is a need for clear, definitive support, and you can correct it further. For example, the government could offer a permanent program to support quality service equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u100	Thank you. Mikhail Vasilovich Melniczuk, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, has the floor. Prepare Boyko, People's Choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u101	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich! Dear colleagues! For the sake of this bill, I have a few comments and several suggestions. I'm just like all the people's deputies we're concerned that this program will go to the 300 and more programs that have been adopted over the past few years in Ukraine and that are buried right after their adoption. This is an extremely serious and state-wide program that is absolutely necessary. You've been watching these television reports over and over again as these people do in extreme conditions, saving other people's lives, and we're seeing that not only the ones they're saving, but the rescuers themselves sometimes have to be saved because they're not equipped enough to save the lives of those they're saving. Sometimes we send these people to the same depth to rescue miners or other hellfires, as they say, and watch these people die. It's not just about the emergency service, but please look at the fires that sometimes, so to speak, those suits go there and save lives. They save lives and put their lives at risk. The state cannot and does not have the right to send these people to save someone’s life and risk their own. So with acceptance and in the first reading, in the second reading, in the third reading, I, if necessary, agree with the National Deputy School that we should immediately accept such a program and allocate funds accordingly. On this side, there can be no objection to the national MPs. Because the longer we work, the more we see the state doesn't have the funds to make the job safe for its citizen, and the sad, privatized enterprises where the leaders today, well, we'll call them "Oligarchs Capitalists," don't always allocate the funds to make sure. I don't want to say it's all of them. And so to say that we don't do everything because I know a lot of managers who care about their people, care about the safety of their work, but there are others. Therefore, we must do our utmost to ensure that this program is not only adopted but also strengthened by adequate funding from the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u102	Thank you. Victor Alexiovich Boyko, "The People's Choice." Get ready for "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, a bill has been tabled for our consideration on a state-wide programme of technical resupply and forward-looking and social development of the state-owned mining service. But this program was already under consideration by the Cabinet of Ministers in 1999 at number 1467 on measures to improve the efficiency of mining services. But for a number of objective and subjective reasons, the project was never approved by the government. And the main reason for this is, in my opinion, the non-state approach of the officials of Minfin and Mineconomy who offer to resupply the mining and rescue services to make at the expense of their maintenance, which is actually not possible in terms of systematic underfunding of budgetary assignments. This has also been facilitated by insufficient control of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine over the implementation of this decree, and the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Minpalevenergo has not shown sufficient persistence in accompanying and harmonizing the project programme. So I'd like us to adopt this program in very strict terms so that it's already acquired the legal weight of the law. And then all these flaws, which are on the part of the ministries and the Cabinet of Ministers, should be removed. That's why I, what I want to point out, the distinguished national MPs, that this program is not for the two thousand rescue workers who are working today in this area, especially that this program, it is for the people, to save those who are working today on 700 emergency hazardous businesses in all of our sectors of the national economy. I want this bill adopted. And I would like to ask you, honourable national deputies, that it be accepted in a strict time frame, so that this program is already under consideration by the 2004 budget law and the draft of this law we will be considering from the second half of the year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u104	Thank you. Roman Tkac, "Our Ukraine" faction, please. Is there a Roman Tuck? None. So, fellow citizens, we are finalizing the draft Law on the State-wide Programme of Technical Refurbishment, the Perspective and Social Development of the State-Military, Mining, Emergency and Rescue Service of the Ministry of Ukraine on Emergency Situations and People Protection from the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster 2004-2008." We will make a decision on the day of the vote. The draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee of Dustenko. Is there a powder? Come on, let's put it down. Next. I'm asking the Secretariat to find Dusty. You remember that we agreed that we would consider this bill today. Next. Let's move on to the short-term consideration of the bills. A draft law on the amendment of the Ukrainian Land Code on land removal and allocation is being announced for consideration. Yes, Sergey Georgievich Kiroyanz, National Deputy of Ukraine. Prepare Vladimir Leschenko. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u105	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Today's valid Earth Code provides for such a mechanism to allocate land for entrepreneurial activities that at this stage any investment project can no longer be buried. Not only is the official responsible for the decision taken but he is not even obliged to explain it to the applicant. He does not have to give the applicant any information. In fact, we have a large, large, long - suffering Earth Code, which just legitimizes bureaucratic procedures that have natural implications for the interests of some officials. And these interests are obvious: To impose on one duty a right to permit or prohibit. The proposed changes to the earthly code apply to the practical issues of earth’s decommissioning. It is the development of typical government documents that will deprive the official of the desire to create new inadequacies to existing standards every time. It is a matter of having to be reasoned with by an official of his decision. The point is that after paying for the money, the claimant could obtain technical assignments and written documents, not the same money for years to run around the premises and discover new and new ways and addresses to distribute his money. It is the responsibility of a government official or a local official for abuse or corruption in providing land for business activity. Finally, it is a clear, clear, open and transparent procedure for providing land. With the adoption of this law, we're going to remove an obstacle that now kills at least 8 to 10 percent of investment projects. Of course, most of these projects may die in the next stages, but to fight this, these obstacles will be easier for us, because one of the reasons we've already ruled out. So, dear fellows, I ask you to support this bill, which is simple and transparent and at the same time essential to our economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u106	Yes, thank you. Sergei Georgievich. Have a seat, please. The word has the head of the Committee’s subcommittee on agrarian politics and land relations, Vladimir Alexiyovich Leschenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u107	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Indeed, the proposed bill provides for a significant simplification of the procedure for the selection, removal and allocation of land. Therefore, the Agrarian Policy Committee, after considering this bill, and it should be said that it has been extensively worked after the first committee review, is proposing that it be accepted as a basis in the first reading. By the way, there are other comments that will have to be taken into account when preparing for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u108	Thank you, Volodymyr Alexiovich. Let's move on to the discussion. Please give the names of the national deputies who are registered. Yuri Carmazin. Michaela Melniczuk will be next. Yuri Anatolyevich, are you in?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u109	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you know that I am always behind those bills that make people's lives easier and against what's meant to be robbed. Like yesterday, all day, practically, bills were sent for robbery. The Kyroyanz National MP's bill, which has now been reported, is just an example of what will improve, I think it will improve our field of protection and protection. The only thing I'd like to do is to make changes to the Ukrainian Earth Code, if we're going to bring them in there, is to have a complex character. You remember the circumstances in which the Earth Code was adopted in October 2001, you remember what was, what was the exaggeration, when the whole group of Solidarity counted that it voted in favour, and we wrote that only in the second reading, and categorically in the third reading. Thus, in an objective manner, Ukraine’s land code was adopted in an entirely different way from article 19 of the Ukrainian Constitution, that is, illegally. And so we had to make decisions now that would make it impossible for those negative processes that would now make it impossible for those negative processes that are taking place in the country, especially with the land, to make it impossible to give it up today in vain, including those that just got it, I mean the villagers, because they first got it, then they give it up, and now they're writing complaints everywhere, including me, I have so many of these complaints. So to have something, you have to grow up and grow up intellectually, and you can't just give it away to companies, firms and so on. The project is foreseen in article 123, section 2, for the permanent use of land by legal persons, according to which condition and timetable for the development of projects for decommissioning is determined by the contract concluded by the contractor with the contractor in accordance with the standard contract. The project will also include a sixth part in another edition. Article 151 provides for a change in the choice of land to accommodate objects. I believe that the seventh part, which foresees a change in the powers of the rural, rural, city council or local government administration, is what I consider to be improving, because they give an opportunity if they refuse, they give a reasoned decision, which can then be appealed to the court, and thus justice should be "to prevail." This law should be adopted both in the first, and you can adopt it in the second reading, if you want to do a little bit of work. But the Earth Code requires serious work. And I'm going to the profile committee, so let's go back to making completely global, serious substitutions, and we're not going to read this code that's been adopted with serious violations of Ukrainian legislation and the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u110	Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk. Now we'll see who's in favor, then we'll figure out who's in front.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u111	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region I think the applause for my performances is too early, but in principle, what I'm writing down on some of the drafts is actually I'm working on them. If I am in need, I express my thoughts. On this point, I would like to say the following. What is being presented today by the people’s deputies of the Kyroyan, the Tuckenk Bill, is to be accepted both on the basis and in the first reading there is no problem. But what I want to say is that you and I, future national deputies, on the tenth and fifteenth vocations, have something to work on. Because the Earth Codex was so readily accepted that we need to work with you and our children and grandchildren. If the approach to the adoption of the Earth Code is considered, there is no need to change, for any change entails consequences, costs to both Parliament and taxes that the people pay to the Ukrainian people, and so on. A living example is article 151. Indeed, the drafters of the bill, as it were, made their proposals. Here's a live example: consider the Novoselt of Cherniewec region in the center of the city a beautiful local cinema. The local district government gives permission to build two meters in front of this building, a coffee shop owned by the owner. And where I didn't fight, where I didn't ask questions, there's no answer. There's nothing else done about how it smells like bribes and all these bribes. The article where the amendment goes, part one of article 211, here is also reinforced by this article of the Earth Code, this bill. But, Your Honor, when I've already received a bill on the committee that, as it were, allows even in nature-protected lands to forget and give away these lands, I already understand that we want to legitimize the barriers that the oligarchs have already allowed themselves, so to speak. to carry out the walls. Therefore, a loving bill that reinforces the functioning of the Codex earth needs to be adopted. And that's why we need to support this bill on the basis of the first reading. Or the Cherkas region of Smiley district, the village of Plaska. Three hundred acres [300 ha] of land was erected by landowners in the area as demolished, where the black earth is one and a half feet [1.5 m] long, thus providing for themselves the head and district authorities of 300 hectares [300 ha] of land. Is it not a deception for those peasants who worked there today who had the right to receive land there? Today, local authorities have taken 300 acres [300 ha] of land into the peasants by means of the help and guidance of the Church’s district officials, the area of Smila. That is why all the laws on land relations will have to be supported, but it is certainly balanced to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Two. Who's against it? Please, Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u113	I agree that we're going to have to adopt this bill because it's actually going to improve the Earth Code, but I'd like to make a few fundamental remarks. First. In the code, and this is typical of almost all of our legislation, which deals with forms of property, we always mix in one sentence the issues that relate to the competence of local councils and local administrations. These are completely different directions, other branches of power in this state and the representative body -- the village council -- the city cannot be compared in one law by function, by type of function to the same district administration. There is a circuit council that speaks, in fact, a union of effort and a unification of the authority of local councils. And in that case, we have to decide whether we're just focusing on local councils, whether we're transferring this to district councils, district councils, but including administrations like me here is completely illogical. In this case and in rural, rural, and urban areas, we also need to give up counsel, at least. I don't think it makes any sense to talk about performances. In this law, in fact, when you look at practice, it will be most applied in cities where there is a lot of conflict. It seems to me that there are several problems in this practice that I have in my community that are also conceptual about the changes that we are making to land legislation, to the Earth Code. We have to ask ourselves a question, there's a community that owns this land, and we have to manage it, and we don't have to regulate it a whole bunch of technical aspects of how it's supposed to do it. We need to be clear about what we can't do. Can't be published in a conservation zone. You can't issue a violation of civil-law relations that are between citizens, between owners. The rest should give. be given to the maximum liberal consideration of the local councils themselves. They're masters. We don’t come to someone or say that you have plates in your own kitchen or in your dining room today, not those. That we have technical issues to impose so harshly on local councils. This law will not actually do this function, and I think that if we can finally get serious about the Earth Code, because I absolutely agree with my colleague Karmazin and Melniczuk, there is more to do than enough, then that principle will have to be invested. Now, let me put it this way, unfortunately, this bill may need to be voted for, because it at least improves what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u114	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Cherniak. I beg of you, very briefly, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u115	I'm here to prepare a set of changes to the Earth Code. That would be really right, it would be an adequate response to the situation. But it is unknown when he prepares this set of changes to the earthly code, whether it will be prepared at all, that he has to deal with specific problems, local problems associated with the earthly code. In particular, there is a problem on one side of bureaucratic procedure and bureaucratic volking in land, and on the other side of the problem is the deception of peasants, the clusters of these areas, and the bill itself is designed to solve at least one side of the problem. He's trying to ask the land administration procedure. A simple, clear and transparent land administration procedure is proposed. This law is in time. That's a good offer. I support what has been said that we have every reason to accept it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u116	Olga Hinzburg, please. Out of the way, huh? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u117	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Hinzburg, 161st Conotope constituency, Communist faction. I wanted to say very briefly, because there are a lot of problems under the Earth Code and, of course, in the district where you meet your people, these problems are evident. I just wanted to for a very short time. I support all of these additions to the earthly code, especially in part 9 of article 151, part 2 and part 7 of article 151, which somehow decipher and improve the system of decommissioning or removing land from those who are using very improperly. But what I'd like to say is that we need to complement the Earth Code with such questions, when we're all over Ukraine, all over Ukraine, that's probably what this system is -- it's broken. For example, here's me. Gas stations are being built in the city center. People say, they speak, the prosecutor's office is connected, and there's nothing you can do about it. They build themselves up, pay the money they need, some services. And once again, they build these gas stations. Or they remove lakes or parts of the land where such lakes are fish, where the entire rural community was used, and they can't go there right now, because they're isolated. And it's going to build people up again, because there's no law in the state. And I would like to say that these questions, they remain open. And even this law that we are today, the amendments, they don't make them. Thus, the earthly codex, adopted here by the majority in the Supreme Council, is a problem for our Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u118	Is it Nemirowski? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u119	As a representative of the Construction Committee, I would like to point out that the bill put forward for discussion concerns changes to the Earth Code, which greatly simplify and shorten one of the stages of obtaining permission to build and deploy an object. It is well - known that the issue of improving the building system is extremely important and painful. Today, this system, based on more than 20 laws and regulations, has become very complex, cumbersome, and ineffective. One of the main and most difficult stages of obtaining the necessary permits is the choice of the land and the agreement of the city of the location of the object. At this stage, it is the decision of the local council to agree on the location of an object based on the findings of representatives of land services, urban buildings, environmental protection, sanitary and epidemiological surveillance, fire surveillance, State Automobile Inspection, and many others. In practice, this stage is very complex and burdensome. Services at this stage, usually pay, can last from three months to infinity. Since the bill is designed to simplify the procedure of the first phase of obtaining permission, it makes them more transparent, clearer, sets a time frame, introduces contractual legal relations here, it needs to be supported and accepted as quickly as possible. The adoption of this bill will be an additional incentive for a major, extremely important work to improve and simplify the entire permit system in construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u120	Thank you, Your Honor, for your part in the discussion. The draft law on amendments to Ukraine’s Land Code on land removal and allocation has been considered. The decision will be made in accordance with the Rules. A draft law amending article 57 of the Ukrainian Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Reporter: Ukrainian National Deputy Parubko Omelyan Nikonović. Get ready for Onopenk Vasil Vasily Vasilovich or whoever's on the committee. I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u121	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished deputies and guests! The current edition of article 57 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act does not set a deadline.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u122	Omelyan Nikonovich, go to the microphone, please. Talk to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u123	From constitutional submission, to court, and to the adoption of the final procedural ruling on the opening of constitutional conduct. So this procedure takes years. For example, the constitutional submission of 57 Ukrainian national deputies regarding the official interpretation of articles 13, 14 of the Constitution of Ukraine reached the Constitutional Court on April 25, 2001, entry number 031250. But even for the reiteration of the people’s deputies from 6/12. In 01 C.E., the Constitutional Court replied with a reference to the appropriate order: review, submission of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court law and the current lack of clarity. When a high court comes to terms with the main task defined in article 147 of the Constitution of Ukraine. It is therefore proposed that the deadline for the preparatory work on opening constitutional conduct be limited to one month from the date of the constitutional application to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The implementation of this law does not require additional costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u124	Thank you. Please, from the Committee, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u125	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The committee considered Bill 1021 and generally agrees and believes that it can be accepted on the first reading as a basis. But in my opinion and in the view of my colleagues from the committee, setting a monthly deadline for opening constitutional conduct may not even help in the work of the Constitutional Court, but may harm. Because it is known that, for example, there are rather complex cases where the Constitutional Court should require conclusions or an answer from the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council, the relevant committees, the Antimonopoly Committee, perhaps the Supreme Court, the Ministry, and other authorities. At this time, let's say it's not the moon, it's even two places. So let's say, the month -- and everything, you have to open up the lead, it can only hurt. An objective view is that where the simpler situation is, a month, if a difficult matter is needed, can be established in addition to a month of two or three even months. I have to say that the Committee on Legal Policy has come to a conclusion from the head of the Constitutional Court, the distinguished Nicholas Selon, where they share the same position. So we're on the committee, and I think we're going to go back to the second reading of these proposals. Moreover, it is not just about discovery, such as conduct, but when it comes to other actions, closures? Then, too, we feel that appropriate clarification is needed. In general, as I said, the committee supports, and I think we should vote in favour of this bill tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u126	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Anatolyevich, please come. Get ready for Andrew School. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, "Our Ukraine" faction, has a word for this. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u127	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! The Constitutional Court of Ukraine is a higher institution on which we hoped when we created it, accepting the Constitution as the only body of constitutional jurisdiction in Ukraine. He must decide on the conformity of laws, other legal acts of the Constitution and give an official interpretation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. Whether he performed his function or not over the years, and how he did it, let's say, he did it differently at different times. And including the pressure being exerted on him in one form or another, the pressure is being exerted now, including the secret increase in wages by secret decrees that I was not allowed to publish from this rostrum, and I think it would be interesting for the people of Ukraine. Today, when it comes to improving the work of the Constitutional Court or not, the answer to the question is definitely to be improved. We have to make sure that the bill hasn't been burned there for years, but is there any way out of this situation that we're proposing three sentences: the procedural approval of the opening of the constitutional introduction is adopted not later than one month from the date of the submission of the Constitutional Appeal to the Constitutional Court. And we're not restricting the case, and we're not writing anything else, and before this Constitutional Court Act, we've seen a lot of additions that are now included in the internal rules of the Constitutional Court. There's a document. And that's why there's a lot of these novelties that have to be regulated by law, not by internal regulations, and we don't. And this rule is all the more internal processual. That's why I'm talking to my fellow Ukrainian national deputies, and I think I'm going to be heard by the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine who are not in any hurry. Many urgent issues for Ukraine to decide for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. I think they'll hear that we need to make complex changes to this law. You can't take three sentences and today say they're going to improve the work of the Constitutional Court. These three sentences don't improve the work, we're just going to take time, we're going to fold it, let's say, we need this change, but it's so third-rate that it's hard to even talk. There are very serious proposals today that need to be put into the order of the day and make complex changes to this law so that the Constitutional Court does not stand over everything. For look! He stood faithful above all, but in the interests of all society. As long as he has made decisions against the people’s deputies, please analyze the decisions that have been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u128	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u129	Thank you, School Andrew, the faction of Julia Timoshenko, the Ukrainian National Assembly. I would like to point out that the ordinary thing: the Constitutional Court is a higher body of the judiciary, therefore, it is an organ that has the right to interpret the Constitution and only it has the right to do so and therefore, in principle, it has the attention of virtually everyone: both the national deputies and the Ukrainians -- all who live in the constitutional field and even those who live outside it. And I would like to say that it is necessary to limit the period of consideration. Of course, it may not be clearly stated here, and some nuances there need to be worked out and the sin does not agree with it. But what has to be limited and considered is primarily, and research on the matter is essentially the same. That is, to let a person know that he has filed documents, whether it's a group of people, or a group of national MPs, and he has a clear term for when it should be considered. If the term is extended, it can be applied immediately. And that's why I would say it's worth it, at least on the first reading, to support and finalize this bill. I'll tell you why. Of course, there is a constitutional court law in Ukraine right now. And I know, I've been talking to Vasil Vasilovich Onopenk, and a bill is being prepared, and he'll be in the session room in about a month. But nevertheless, I would like to point out that we now need to give the judges of the Constitutional Court a signal that we have no right, we know about it, and we have no right to let things be really watched there for years, so that they can switch from one shelf to another, so that they can be transported from one table to the next. And so if we support it now in the first reading, we can continue to talk, we can wait for this constitutional court law and we can do the bill there in the law. So I think we should just get our attention to you right now. And first of all, I'm calling on the radio audience to make it clear that the Constitutional Court is not the body that satisfies at least some of the national MPs. Indeed, there is information about secret wage increases, there are other benefits: and unlimited age for judges of the Constitutional Court. There are rumors of this in the towers of the Supreme Council. This may be corrected, perhaps not, but it is necessary to write clear rules of communication with all courts and, above all, with the Constitutional Court, the court that has the right to regulate and treat the main law. So I would like to call on my fellow national MPs in their first reading to support, and there to wait for the Constitutional Court Act and to combine this bill with the Constitutional Court Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u130	Thank you. There is no John the Hare. Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! What needs to be accepted and clearly fixed is absolutely clear. I might have a little bit of a conjuncture here, because today I want to collect signatures and apply to the Constitutional Court and a certain application. And personally, I wouldn't want it to be there, not that for months, but that it's stuck for years and fell under a dress for no reason at all. But there are some warnings. First. I don't know if I'm present at the hearing in this room right now any of the representatives of the Constitutional Court, and I think it would be worth it if the head of the Constitutional Court was invited to say his opinion, his position on this matter, and we could or would agree with her not. Maybe he would give us some arguments that would be convincing for us, why this month, in principle, is not possible. Although, I think the norm is, in principle, acceptable. I have some warnings. I think that change might not even fit 57, but 46th article on "Constitutional conduct." As far as I'm concerned, once again, the standards of one month, I'm thinking that maybe you don't have to give a certain lift, but you don't have to introduce the concept of "hard, complicated or uncomplicated things," but there has to be a possibility of extending the term until the beginning of the case, if there's a valid explanation why, in one month, you can't get involved. But in such a case, there should be an opportunity to challenge such a decision by the Constitutional Court. Otherwise, we will be put back on deadlines. As for the second part of the Constitutional implementation. They're written down pretty clearly. Three months and one month after my appointment, it's perfectly normal. As for constitutional references, I think six months from the day of the procession, it's a little too much. I realize that there is quite a volume of work there, but the Constitutional Court should also understand that it is very often the fate of individuals, the fate of local governments, a number of businesses, and so forth. So we need to make the standard more rigid. In general, with regard to the practice of the Constitutional Court, we are indeed, unfortunately, currently feeling a certain degree of incompletion, dissatisfaction that the Constitutional Court has not yet filled in the social, political, public life of Ukraine as it should be. He did not become the colossal deterrent against volunteerism in legislation against error in laws, especially against which he is not actually working today, against the President's voluntary and criminal decisions, which are often made. I would still like to see the work of the Constitutional Court as active as possible on the basis of such actions as have a public and common interest. Regrettably, they tend to be very resilient or have prolonged procedural processes for a very long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u132	Is Mikhailo Melniczuk there? No, it's not. You won't? Mikola Tomenko. Turn on Mikoli Tomenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u133	Mikola Tomenko, head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Dear colleagues! I am a few literally ideas that bother me in the context of this discussion. Today, the Constitutional Court becomes the second since the Supreme Council. in the debate on changes to the Constitution. And as my colleagues have already said, in the President's draft, we've seen moments of anxiety there about extending the term of members of constitutional judges to 75 years. The removal of the term of office of the head of the Constitutional Court to three years. And it's an alarming element like this that really reminds us of what the Constitutional Court is trying to forget. And it seems to me that the Supreme Council should have taken a serious course, not a change of one norm, but a discussion with the members of the Constitutional Court that the law should make them work adequately and defend the Constitution. Because there was a recent meeting at the head of the President's Administration about how the President's initiative was being discussed. And a member of the Constitutional Court speaks and says that we have different thoughts. As a member of the Constitutional Court, I believe that there are articles 5 of the Constitution, which are the source of authority for the people. In the referendum, the Supreme Council will not approve it, it is the law, and as a member of the Constitutional Court I will support it. So, dear friends, this is a serious problem, and I propose that we approach the amendment of the Constitutional Court Act more seriously by considering all these points so that we can be convinced that the Constitutional Court really guarantees us that the Constitution will change exclusively under the Constitution, and those who violate the Constitution will be held accountable for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u134	Vladimir Cherniak, please. Dear colleagues, I'm on that list that's written down. I ask very briefly that we may continue to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u135	Dear colleagues. I want to support the idea that we need to prepare a set of changes to the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act. This complex of changes in attitudes, the legislator did not take everything into account, the practice shows that not always on the basis of the Constitution, in my opinion, laws and answers are often political. For the Constitutional Court, the law must also be written, and they must act within the limits of that law. And we need to protect the Constitution by the Constitutional Court, so we needed to prepare a set of changes to the Constitutional Court Act. I think this problem will have to be solved. But for the time being, again, we are going through the application of laws and codes. And there are specific solutions to specific, local problems. In this case, I think that the Bill of the People's Deputy, the Parupka is right, deserves support. He needs to be supported, accepted in the first reading. But once again, I would like to point out that we have to prepare a project for change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u136	Thank you. Oleg Belarus, please. I'm out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u137	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, Professor Cherniak knows how to read thoughts at a distance and he read my thoughts. It seems to me that the time has long come for us to meet here with the Head of the Constitutional Court, to hear his information or to hear about the great results of the work of this specific State body to protect the Constitution and to hear our advice from it. It seems to me that Cherniak, Professor Cherniak, is right that there is a great deal of politicization in the activities of the Constitutional Court. So I propose that I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to invite the Head of the Constitutional Court to prepare a report for the legislator, as is done in all countries of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u138	Please, what does the Ministry of Justice think about this? The Justice Department doesn't think anything. I think that there is room for discussion at a different time, not necessarily in the session room. Question completed. The draft law amending article 57 of the Ukrainian Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine will be adopted on the day of the vote. As for the suggestions that have been made here, I think. We need to set up a committee commission to study these proposals on the drafting of a bill amending the Constitutional Court Act, the whole bill. As for our colleague Oleg Belarus’s proposal regarding the report or report here, it is necessary to reconcile it with the Constitutional Court Act. Does the Supreme Council have such powers? I ask the head of the committee, Vasil Vasilovich. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u139	Please! We're not talking about the Presidential Administration, we're talking about the Supreme Council right now. And make appropriate suggestions. What's your offer? Please, from the Gabrieluk procedure. We've completed our consideration of the bill under number 1021.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u140	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would like to draw the attention of our colleagues to the fact that today we had to consider budget changes. Regrettably, today's materials have not been distributed to us yet, and the meeting of this session will soon be concluded. There is no rapporteur, Petr Alekseievich. And tomorrow. Apparently, we're going to have to make some kind of an aberration. This is a violation of the Rules, a violation of the budget code.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u141	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u142	You can't quite agree with that, in my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u143	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? No one is going to break the Rules. But I am grateful to the First Deputy Chairman of the Regulatory Committee for telling us how to proceed under the Rules. Since there is now a joint government meeting, the budget committee, there is no report, there is no material. As soon as he shows up, we will find out why there is no material. And why he can't report it, it's clear because he's in a meeting. Tomorrow we will not consider this question, since we have not discussed it, so we will move on to the next day. We'll put him on Friday. A draft law amending article 30 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government is being announced for consideration. [[on the issue of property rights certificates]] Yeah, do we have a reporter? Lukashuk Oleg Grigorovich. None. I then ask the committee head of the State Building and Local Self-Government Subcommittee, Anatoly Volodymyrovich, to conclude the committee on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u144	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear National Deputies! The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on March 5, this year, reviewed the law of Ukraine on amendments and additions to article 30 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, author of the National Deputy of Ukraine Lukashuk, register 2252. The bill proposes to include in the delegated powers of the executive bodies of rural, rural and urban councils in the area of housing, commercial, household, transportation, communications and other rights to issue documents certifying ownership of immovable property. The proposed amendments are related to the Ukrainian State Budget Act, article 143 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 67 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, which will give the implementing authority of the grass-roots councils, the village, the village of the city authority to issue a certificate of ownership of immovable property objects, first of all simplifying the procedure for obtaining the above-mentioned documents to the local population, as the executive authorities are territorially located in each inhabited area, and the establishment of the Bureau of Technical Inventory, which is now authorized to issue documents certifying the right to property for real estate objects, is only in the district centres. Of course, there are also some warnings, such as when preparing a bill for second reading, that it should wait for the adoption and application of the Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion, believes that the draft law of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Lukashuk, can be taken as a basis. The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, having considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to Article 30 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government, recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when considering the bill, to accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u145	You can't ask questions, unfortunately, because we're following a reduced procedure. I think you can come up and discuss this problem. Let's move on to the discussion. Dear colleagues, there are so many people, we will not be able to get everyone to speak. Light up on the board. That's 12 people's deputies. I invite Yuri Carmazin to prepare Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u146	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! You are invited to complete one single sub-paragraph 11, paragraph B, of article 30 of the Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. It's so important and we're asking this question, we're considering it. In general, such a change is, the issuing of documents that show ownership of immovable property, property rights certificates. All of it. These are all the changes proposed by law. Once again, I emphasize that there are no approaches to complexity, this time. Secondly, I emphasize that it is in the best interest of anyone. It seems to me that it is convenient to impose such bills on the Supreme Council to those who want it to fail to work. So once again, please, let's just introduce complex bills. In my opinion, what we accepted and you remember, in this room, the Law on State Registering of Real Estate Rights and we've already considered them in two readings, this was the answer to the questions that are being asked today. What is being suggested today to give a witness in the cases provided for in the legislation has already been pointed out by the Scientific and Scientific Administration. I would like to ask: What legislation does it require to issue documents certifying ownership of immovable property? So far, there has been an order from Miniust since 2002 since February 7th, which has been established that the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the taking of effect by the Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights Objects has been carried out by the Bureau of Technical Inventory. But in this situation, Minust was unable to hold back, and in addition to the local executive authorities, local self-government, state privatization authorities, added “State administration of affairs”. In my opinion, I am addressing the representatives of Minnesota, it is not just nonsense, it is abuse of the law, including the State administration of matters as an organ that has to issue something. An organ that no one in the state controls. So I think that let's adopt a law on state registration of real estate property rights, this law will fall away as completely worthless, I won't choose a different word, and I can issue and issue documents on the right to property for immovable property, just objects of utility that refer to municipal property, if we even write it down in that law. It's not appropriate to write this in the law on local self-government, in my opinion. And we will not forget that the Cabinet of Ministers is in charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u147	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, prepare Andrew School. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u148	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear colleagues, I will remind you of the essence of the bill. It is proposed to create a legal basis for the existing practice of issuing property certificates by the executive authorities of local self - government. At present, the issuing of certificates of ownership by the legislative authorities of local self - government is actually carried out without legislative grounds. Privatization of nonresidential property objects fell partially out of the legislative field. In particular, Ukraine’s Privatization of Small State Enterprises Act, a small privatization foresees that small-privatization salesmen, who are in municipal property, are privatization bodies created by local councils. But there is no indication of which body is to give a witness to the right of ownership. Similarly, Ukraine’s Law on Local Self - Rule in Ukraine does not include the authority given to local authorities. Saving such a situation can, in principle, lead to the possibility of challenging the legality of the privatization certificates. Thus, the adoption of the bill allows for a gap in legislation and, of course, deserves approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u149	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u150	Thank you. School Andrew, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Ukrainian National Assembly I would, of course, like to say that, really, the Supreme Council would have to work comprehensively and only prepare complex, quality laws. But if we had expected complex and quality laws to come to us, we would have worked once a month because few of those laws would have entered the session hall. And here I'd like to emphasize. Still, we must walk away from simplification. This bill is so, really, maybe it's torn out of context, and there are some observations on this point that can be taken. But what are we talking about in positive terms? Let's make this simple and clear. Permission to grant ownership is granted to the local authority. A peasant does not have to go for thirty lands, to a district center, and often even to a capital city to obtain paper, not to bother the district bureaux of technical inventory that testifies to law. So let us lower our authority, in a good sense, to draw it closer to the people. So this bill can't be treated differently in this context than it is approved. That's understandable. Plus, the committee has expressed its support here, and this is where it needs to be considered. I believe that we must and should strive constantly for the ideal. But he's perfect. far away and in the struggle to pursue the ideal, we may not notice the people who are suffering during this struggle. So I'd like these bills to be considered really quickly, really qualitatively and fully. There can be no warning of what was already prepared in the second reading passed the law there on. What Karmazin was talking about, about local self-government, we accepted, we talked about, and now we're supplementing. It's normal. I don't think we have to break the files here and discuss it. So I think that's my offer. Here is a project on government registration of rights to objects. Moveable property. They offered to postpone. I suggest you take the first reading. Accept in the second reading. And that's where we can put it. We can always stop the process. But the main thing is to start it, because we can motivate the failure to start the process by being kind soon. You know, in Ukraine everything's relevant enough. We will be very sick, and then good people will come and there will be good authority in Ukraine. If we believe that, we will never receive good people or good authority. We have to do it, we have to do it, and it's gonna be okay tomorrow. I think this bill is a powerful confirmation of that. We need to support him, stop the process, we can always do it. Start hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u151	It's a quick word, according to the note, for Semenyuk's speech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u152	Dear colleagues! Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Making changes to the Law on Local Self - Rule in Ukraine requires acceptance and consideration of one thing that we are already accepting with delay. First of all, why? In 1996, after the adoption of the law on local self - government and the ratified European Charter on Local Self - Government, we said that we keep representative bodies in our seats, that is, the council. In order for the boards to function fully, you need to have a material base. The material base for local self-governance is property that is in the form of municipal property, land and local taxes and congregations with appropriate budgeting and subsidies. What happened? During privatization, the actual privatization went to threes and representative bodies in places, and by Vladimir Andrijevic Luzkin, the former head of the district administration, can confirm when, as the head of the district administration in the territory, privatization took place, and sometimes as the head of the district council or district administration, he could not have known who was conducting the privatization. And that's why this bill, which gives you the right to issue property certificates in the territories, is a democracy that will allow you to have a material basis or at least control that is in the territory of the taxpayer, a proper registration of documents is all that will allow you to operate the territories transparently. What is more, we need to consider one more interesting detail that today, property - rights objects are being sold, especially when the stock market is not working, when there is no transparency in the one thing or another, it is a guarantee to influence objects located in the territory to social goods. In accordance with article 43 of the Law on Local Self-Government, one thing needs to be considered is that the right to develop socio-economic territory is governed by local self-government. This is one of the mechanisms of direct influence through the mechanism of tax payers regardless of the form of property that will be in the territory. So the Socialist Party faction supports this bill. And I think we should take it right away in the first reading, and eventually. And the fact that we have the real estate law, the real estate registration law, it's not going to exclude what's going on with the law on local self-government. It is necessary to work in a transparent manner because, especially today, these issues need to be addressed in plenary meetings of the councils, and it is for the councils to know what is being reported to the people who are working effectively or ineffectively, what are the spheres that affect them. This is one of the registration mechanisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u153	Wait a minute. Dear colleagues, there were four national deputies. Who among those who have signed up insists on reptiles? Dear and incorrigible, please. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, the question is as follows. In this case, the fact that local self-government should have an impact on the situation and be the owner, I don't think there's any doubt about it. But there is another problem that is simply about life. As a person with experience in local self-government, let me put it this way. To date, the BTI system needs to be changed. Because the cumbersome she is today, no one needs her. But, my respectable colleagues, the BTI system has preserved archives so far! And whoever's encountered knows that when we even start talking about transferring the same departmental housing or other facilities to the utility property, without these archives, it won't be easy. If we give the village head the right to issue today, and he does it without the BTI system, then we'll have a problem with you in 10 to 15 years, because keeping the archive, keeping records -- actually a secure system -- is what people find out about each other in court. Keep going, keep going, keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u155	Thank you. Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u156	Boris Bespali. Dear colleagues, I wanted to say a few words from the Public Building and Local Self - Government Committee. The question here was, What must be done in a complex way? And I'm just going to let you know that we're going to have a new version of the local self-government law put into the session hall in the second reading. But as long as the sun rises, the dew of the eyes will eat. And now there's two very intensely diverse, but equally negative processes, this is the first process of property theft; and the second is people who have legally acquired and acquired property, it's very difficult to legitimize it so that there are no legal claims. Some of the speakers spoke about this. So this bill, it is just so urgent, and the committee is asking him to accept it in the first reading. Another problem. Who is to give these testimonies? The world’s current practice shows that the testimony to all real estate, although the land, although private buildings, must produce one organ, cannot be that organ, for example, as some suggest, because it has only a bearing on the earth. And so, by supporting the previous speaker, I can say that the most optimal thing here is to preserve and legitimize the operating system of the Bureau of Technical Inventory, perhaps by improving it. And the committee expects you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u157	Thank you. Olga Hinsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u158	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Hinzburg, 161 constituency. I only wanted to ask you one question. And probably all the MPs who work with people, they know that. Today, if there is an old man in the village, for example, a man died, or a woman died, there was this hut. It costs in a village, if you know, let's say a thousand bracelets can be sold or bought. And the transformation, if a person wants to change, they have to go to the notary, to the BTI, and they take about 500 or 600 dollars out of it. And there's this problem in every village. And if we're having a discussion today about the issue of property rights, it's the first so painful question for me that the conditions of ownership are improving or are being settled for these simple rural workers who have these problems. There's a problem in every village. It's been there before. By 1998, the village councils had been able to transform these property rights of the villagers. And I support this law, and this problem will be removed, and our citizens will get a lot of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u159	Thank you. So, does the government support the bill? ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ We don't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u160	It's all clear. Thank you. The draft amendment to article 30 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government has been finalized. [[on the issue of property rights certificates]] We will make a decision at the appointed time. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Treatment of Taxpayers’ Obligations to Budgets and State Trust Funds on Methods of Recognition of Tax Obligations is under consideration. Reporter of Gorbachev, National Deputy of Ukraine. Victor Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished President! Such amendments to the law on the order of repayment are being considered for your consideration. Here are three articles I would like you to change, vote on Thursday. First article 4. 3.3. What is stated in the law so far is that the methodology for the determination of tax amounts is determined and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers for the submission of tax services. I propose to amend this article so that this methodology is determined only by the laws of the country. As a matter of fact, I am supported by our High Council expert office. Why? I would like to say that, to date, there is such a methodology and there will be that the tax authority, in the face of the head of the tax administration, will give any method, i.e., it is permissible that the tax service will come to any enterprise, see electricity consumption or gas consumption, increase transport traffic, any, and, in fact, define tax liabilities, i.e. the amount of tax the undertaking deems necessary. Therefore, I believe that this, we will no longer be able to control the income tax from the enterprise, and the enterprise itself will not be able to control it and prove afterwards that the taxes must be paid by those we now have tax obligations and tax rates. In fact, we give the tax authority the right to adopt statutory tax acts and to assert in the Cabinet of Ministers. You yourself understand that to date, if Kravchenko makes any proposals with Azarov, methods, how to pay the tax and how much to pay it, then the Cabinet of Ministers will accept it. I think in the future, even though it will always be strong with another President and they will always be able to make any decision in the Cabinet of Ministers. The second article, which I would like to amend, can, in itself, be charged only to the tax service. In fact, it's coming out. It also has a very strong impact on this article 4.3.3, which says that the accrual of these sums is, of course, logical, but I think that since these are indirect methods, these are not the taxes that we pay. I believe that only if the tax service disagrees with those payments and considers that the enterprise does not pay them and does not pay them so much should it go to the court and only the court can determine the amounts of income to the budget. Because I believe that there is already a moment in the tax service, which is becoming a tax administration already a judicial body and replacing judicial decisions. I can also confirm that these are not direct taxes, but taxes that the tax office itself can determine the methodology. And number three. I would like this paragraph 19.3.6 to be moved to transfer all these indirect methods, allowing for the entry into force for 2005. To date, such an article as 19.3.6 defines before 1 January 2001 the rules under which, if the taxpayer refuses to agree on tax obligations, tax duties, indirect tax methods are applied to the court. So, to date, this method is already working. To date, this is also a very important item that is happening today in Ukraine. Indirect methods are being developed. To date, every enterprise in Ukraine, I repeat, has provided clear figures of tax revenue that the enterprise should pay in the city's budget, state. If the business, the director does not agree, I repeat, to date, the tax office comes, sits in the business and simply chronicles the business and then starts to prove through the court that these enterprises have to pay more. You yourself understand the pressures of the tax administration to date in the regions and, accordingly, that 90 per cent of enterprises are beginning to agree and sign these documents and pay for the figures given by the tax service. I therefore believe that it is the protection of enterprises from the mere policies of the Tax Administration. I know that the administration speaks of the democratic nature of tax revenue, I believe that to date such a company exists, and I believe that this paragraph should also be repealed by 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u162	Thank you. Have a seat, please. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, our colleague, National Deputy Gorbachev, has stopped at this bill in great detail, and I see no reason to comment on what he has said, because this really applies to three points, three moments. Our committee has supported this bill and we have come up with such a view that this bill, its adoption, will prevent conflicts that constantly arise between taxpayers and tax authorities on how to determine tax liabilities by indirect methods. We think, unfortunately, that in some way, when we discussed this issue, we expressed different thoughts and the main thought was that unfortunately, what we had to do with adopting this bill was to some extent caused by those events, conflict events, in the relationship between taxpayers and taxpayers. In our opinion, this bill at least settles this issue in some way. Therefore, we support him and offer to accept him in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u164	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. Enlighten those who sign up. Yuri Carmazin, please, I ask very briefly and briefly, dear colleagues. Igor Šurm will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u165	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Motherland, Solidarity, Ukraine. Honorable National MPs, the suffering people of Ukraine. This bill today is the second essentially serious document after what we discussed -- it's after the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. And I thank National Deputy Gorbachev for reaching out to him to stop what is happening in the state today. I remind you that, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, in particular in accordance with article 93, all laws are solely applicable to the rights and freedoms of the individual and the citizen, the guarantees and freedoms of those rights, the basic duties of the citizen, as well as the legal principles and guarantees and entrepreneurship, and the legal principles of the establishment and operation of the tax system and the fact that these principles have begun to be approved and done by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, not contrary to the Constitution, and that what has actually begun to do so, it has happened when they approved the methods of determining the tax liabilities by indirect methods of Order No. 697 of 27 May 2002. What were the authorities in the State supposed to do in accordance with Article 19 of the Constitution? The Office of the Attorney General had to urgently challenge this document, and it was to be stopped throughout Ukraine. At the same time, we today, legislators, think, and how do we do so for those who do not want to read the Constitution, who do not want to read the Constitution and who want to do so? And then Gorbachev offers a way out of a situation that the Supreme Council Committee has been perfectly supportive of today. So I think that the decision to use indirect methods is one of the elements of abuse today by the tax administration that is used in business entities. And this has to be stopped. And if you'll excuse me, I've already spoken from this rostrum, which is the selection of personnel from the tax administration, when a 27-year-old doctor is trusted to be the deputy head of the State Tax Administration, I mean Maxime Stepanova, a 27-year-old doctor for education. Therefore, the Gorbachev bill must be adopted both in the first and second readings and finally put obstacles in the way of those doctors who are not doing their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u166	Thank you. Igor Šurma. Nigga's next. Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u167	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear National Deputies! Ukraine’s current legislation does not have a clear methodology for determining tax liabilities through indirect methods. In the current methodology of determining the amount of indirect tax liabilities that is approved by the Cabinet in 2002 under number 697, the established accounting methods are highly subjective and uncertain. In particular, seasonal entrepreneurship is not an example. This opens the way for them to be interpreted and applied by tax officials for their own benefit. There's no threshold or income limit, starting with which to use so-called indirect methods. They can be applied regardless of the amount of income: whether it's 100 dollars, or whether it's 100,000 dollars. At the same time, it is technically possible to charge you with concealing income even if this difference may amount to 1 bracelet. There are no positions on the liability of tax officials for errors in the application of so - called indirect methods. And such errors in the absence of a clear calculation methodology will be massive. The draft law provides for the approval of the method of determining the amount of tax liabilities solely by law, not by decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but by giving the courts, not by the tax authorities, the authority to decide on the use of the so - called indirect methods. The proposed changes are certainly necessary and well - founded, and they will have a positive effect on the state’s business climate as a whole. But we think that this bill needs to be worked out in order to bring the so-called indirect methods in Ukraine into line with foreign practice. For example, in the United States and France, where similar methods exist, they can only be applied to individuals who receive very high incomes. In the process of operational investigation during the pretrial investigation, when a criminal case of tax evasion was committed. In doing so, using so - called indirect methods requires that an estimate of annual income exceeds the declared income. In France, for example, for a third. In these countries, the so - called indirect methods are used only to gather evidence and refer it to court, and only the court decides on the validity and reliability of such evidence. Such order should also be introduced in our legislation, so we consider it appropriate to send a draft law for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u168	Thank you. I see. Vladimir Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u169	Honorary colleagues are known to have a complex relationship between taxpayers and taxpayers in Ukraine. There are tax payers who try to avoid paying taxes, and they are fought by tax administrations, and there are taxpayers who abuse their job, and they are fought by taxpayers. The situation was a conflict, and the bill was designed to resolve the conflict between taxpayers and taxpayers in relation to the method of determining tax liabilities by indirect methods. This is Cabinet of Ministers decision number 697. I don't think it was the best and wisest decision, it created a conflict, although it exists in its nature and it's inevitable, there's this conflict around the world between taxpayers and taxpayers, but at least it has to take civilized normal forms and help solve the problems of coming into the budget and upholding the rule of law and justice. The bill is aimed at limiting tax evasion. The bill places obstacles in the way of subjectiveness and abuse on the part of the tax administration. So it's completely on the taxpayers' side, not on the taxpayers' side. But he doesn't claim anything else. This is the subject of a law to protect taxpayers from tax evasion. So let us judge this law by coming out of its object. I think the taxpayers will not be satisfied with this bill, and tax payers will sigh if it is accepted. I personally feel that it should be accepted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u170	Mikhailo Melniczuk, please, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u171	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewets region. I always agree with the Black People's Deputy. And here I don't want to agree just because it's impossible to avoid tax evasion in our country. In general, count, I mean avoid if anyone wants to escape. This can be done under certain circumstances. Only when you have already paid but not to the Treasury of the State can you avoid. When you have a tax roof, you can avoid it. When the taxpayers say so, they say you can pay for it, and you can't pay for it, and then you pay for it differently. How, then, can it be said that high-ranking government officials, officials of the Cabinet of Ministers, are talking about 200 thousand tons being smuggled into Ukraine by sugar-sore smuggling? Where did the money from all this come from? Then it's practically impossible to avoid, maybe I didn't get it? It's impossible to avoid. Because for every thousand entrepreneurs, look at how many taxpayers. But it may be that the bill is actually proposed by the national deputy Gorbachev. He needs support, he needs support. In this room, I think we're going to have to support it. But I would very much like to have a tax representative present before my speech. Then it would have been clarified, for really only the law could provide, not the Cabinet of Ministers, which should be, so to speak, well, appropriate to those who, so to speak, do not pay taxes on time. The following question. Let's talk about the work of our state institutions, it's tax services. If the methodology is handled by the Cabinet of Ministers and is consistent with the tax services, then please tell us why the legislative authorities, we parliamentarians, if someone is doing this behind our backs? Therefore, the bill must be supported, and it must be supported. But the taxpayers need to be told otherwise that, your honor, everything will come at a time when everything will have to be paid for. And so today we need to think about this time that it will come in our home Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u172	Yes, please, let us now hear what tax collectors think about this. First Deputy Head of the State Tax Administration, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u173	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say, first of all, you don't have to say that there is a conflict now between taxpayers and the tax service. To the extent that there is a conflict of interest, such as taxpayers and public service, it is always in all countries. The other thing is, what's the question and what's the point? In this case, the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers is fully in line with the law that provided for this order to be established. If it is suggested today that this order of indirect methods be established in the legislative order, there would be no objection on the part of the tax service. But what do we propose today? Let's take a good look at this. We say that the method of determining tax liabilities by an indirect method is approved by law. That's absolutely right, only in this law do we have to write this methodology right now. Right in this law. Then the State Tax Administration gets clear rules of the game, say, written in the law. Today we cancel it, the Cabinet of Ministers' decision doesn't work, and so when the law is passed in indirect ways, none of us will say it today because it's not even registered. Therefore, the request: When we pass this law, we must immediately say: For the second reading, there must be a method written in the law, and then, practically, there will be no questions. And the State Tax Administration will just say thank you very much to the National Deputies that it has a clear tool that can be applied to those taxpayers who, by the way, don't want to pay taxes very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u174	Thank you. Yes, Your Honor, the matter has been discussed. Decisions will be made in the proper order. For reasons, please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u175	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd like to say, first of all, that this law that we're considering, it was worth another procedure: I should speak first, I think, a tax representative, to say his opinion, then speak up to the people's deputies, and later he could sum it up. Because, for example, I'd like to explain to all those radio people who aren't entrepreneurs, so everyone knows what "direct methods" are. Indirect methods, these are the methods that are called search-and-research methods, which are also called in the people of the BBC -- "Grandma told me," which is to say that someone has more employees than he said. From whom, when? We know how this information is being gathered, and that's why the regulation in this Gorbachev law is exactly, and it's not here, it's not about the conflict that exists there. It must exist between those who pay taxes and those who collect, and now there is a conflict between those who pay, those who need it, and those who do not want to pay it. And you understand that very well, and we all understand that very well. Thus, this law of Gorbachev, at least a little, softens the relationship.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u176	Honorary colleagues, if the subject of the legislative initiative were the government, evidently the representative of the State Tax Administration reported the bill. And since our colleague of national deputies was the subject of the legislative initiative, he reported that we followed the procedure. If you don't mind, we might be very quick to consider a draft law amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax on Cash Tax in PEC Enterprises. There's still a lot of time until 3:00. I ask that Victor Volodymyrovich Kapusin speak on this subject and briefly explain it to us. Is there a defect? Please, Litwin Vadim. Very briefly, I ask, so that we can complete this consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u177	The problem that the bill must address is the following. The shafts extract coal, ship it to power stations, receive money with a long delay and a partial amount, and tax liabilities arise immediately. Paying them nothing because the money didn't go to the mines. There are fines that allow for the bankruptcy of the same mines and so on. Why don't the money go to the mines, who owes the most electricity we watch. This is the Heat Communenergo, Vodokanal and other utilities funded from the budget of all levels and populations. It's billions of bracelets. Thus, energy has been lending and even financing budgets at all levels, utilities and the population for ten years, and is still being fined. The same applies to gases, even worse at nuclear stations. The electricity-discharged atoms receive tariffs, no fines and pennies in tariffs, and specific amounts for nuclear fuel, nuclear safety, repairs and so on. That is, it is possible to pay fines and pennies that atomizers are not fully obliged to carry out safety and repair work on nuclear stations. Our bill proposes to remove these problems by defining tax liabilities under the cash method for coal miners, electricians and gas pipelines, i.e. the payment of services and goods provided. The implementation of the law does not require additional material and other costs, nor will it result in the loss of the budget. The Executive Office of the Supreme Council will support the adoption of the law on first reading. I also ask to support the adoption of the law in the first reading and in general, the law has been passed by members of various factions, both the majority and the opposition, i.e. it is not political, but purely economic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u178	Yes. Thank you. Please, from the Kaputin Committee, Victor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u179	I'll speak very briefly. We know what the cash method is, we know what the payment chain is now in the relationship between gas suppliers and those who consume gas consumers. We know why this is the non-payment chain that exists in the country, and it's particularly large in this area. Unfortunately, in fact, from the situation that's coming together now, the budget is getting nothing, no benefit, and this sector is suffering very seriously, and I want to point out that this area is one of the main taxpayers in our budget. When we looked at this bill on the committee, we came out of this very reflection, and we hope that its adoption will more or less stabilize the work of this sector, because this situation leads to very serious negative results, lawsuits, closures, a new round of nonpayments and so on, so on and so forth. I'd like to pay attention to just one question. When we discussed this bill on the committee, we supported it essentially, but we showed a desire to accept it as soon as possible, and we proposed to the committee to introduce it as one of the chapters in Bill 1277 -- this is the great VAT bill that we expected to be considered and adopted in May, because this bill was being considered in April. Unfortunately, the bill was not adopted or even considered. And I don't think there's a chance he'll be accepted in the next few weeks. Sadly, though, this is damaging to the field and to the situation in general. So I think, by supporting this bill in fact, it can be recommended that it be adopted as a separate bill in the first reading with further elaboration of the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u180	Thank you. Please take the government's position on this. Let's do it in turn: Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, we both represent a position, but unfortunately, we have different positions. That's why we're speaking to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Fuel Energy. Sadly, that was the case. It's a national MP project, so we're sounding this position in this way. I'd like to remind you that this bill, it's not the first in three years, it's appeared every time in this room, and it's never been supported. From the point of view of the economy. I want to say that this is a 250-300 million budget loss, you should mean this when we vote, because tomorrow we're going to have a budget where we're trying to find 350 extra million to improve budget implementation and minimum wage. A branch, like this, we've already said several times before, a branch like this doesn't win anything, it only wins in time -- it's transferring today's day to the following days, it's a principle that exists today in this kind of tax, which is called value added tax. The cash method or the method of accounting, so-called, the methods that are proclaimed in our law. And we can't agree to apply to a particular sector of another method than it exists in Ukraine as a whole. This tax can be called state tax, but not branch tax. And we're going to be absolutely against this idea of changing the tax principle to the added value. This is primarily a budgetary problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u182	Thank you. The Ministry of Fuel and Energy holds the same position.? Please, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ No, it's not. The Ministry of Fuel and Energy supports the specified bill, which provides for the application of the cash method in determining the tax base. The implementation of the draft law will not, in our view, result in the loss of the budget, because in the current order of determining the tax base by adding value, there are significant amounts of early payment that APEC companies simply cannot pay them, these costs are simply not available. At the same time, the adoption of the bill will contribute to improving the payment discipline of enterprises in the complex, stabilizing budget accounts, and ensuring the unbreakable operation of energy-generating companies in terms of electricity production and their successful operation. We insist on the adoption of this law and the APEC enterprises will be very grateful to the national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u183	Thank you. I'd like to propose to the Cabinet of Ministers, and this is what we're going to do to prepare an appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers to come with one position -- the position of the Cabinet of Ministers in Parliament. One minute, we've got a lot of people. Will we continue to discuss this issue? Wait, I can't, there's still a lot to write down. Which is essentially what it is. One minute at a time. I understand everything. We always have the first George Carmazin, so we can't cross.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u184	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! This question is as important as the fight against tax on added value. I have in my hands four bills that have been introduced on this subject. Sorry, 5. It's 2006, and then 2006-1, 2, 3, and then it was combined. Five bills. And today what's been reported to me is going to have to be taken right away in two readings, because the value added tax is destroying the economy of the state. Another question is that when using the cash method of determining the PEC corporate tax base that extracts and carries out coal, coal briquettes and electricity transactions, it will still have to be watched so that there is no abuse of serious ones. Well, there are law enforcement agencies for that. I think we may have some difficulties this year with the budget, given that there will be a serious withdrawal of money. But it's only going to be for a period of time and I'd like the budget committee to take this into account, even though I think this law should be adopted urgently because it is. The absence of it leads to the destruction of the mines. I. But once again, before we adopt the Tax Code and as soon as we adopt the Tax Code by summer, then we'll have to include it directly into this code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u185	Mikhailo Melniczuk, please. Yes, turn on the microphone. From place to place for a minute, if there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u186	A faction will determine whether to support or not the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Most of all, we will support, but this is determined by the faction of the solution. I would like to refer to others for radio audiences and parliamentarians. We need to get back on VAT for electricity and electricity paid by the people imposed by Prime Minister Leonid Danilovich Kuchma by his decree. After all, what does the population pay VAT for electricity and electricity? That's what I'm talking about. Now, if you'll excuse me, I have a few more seconds, Valentina Petrovni Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u187	Valentina Seminouk. _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Let mine go, I'm on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u188	No, please pick up the second microphone. Valentino Petrovno, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u189	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, first of all, I want to say that Vladimir Andriyovich here speaks correctly of VAT. Because I often have to deal with fictitious bankruptcy at a meeting of the Special Control Board. One of the ways is what Vladimir Andriyovich was talking about, first of all, is the initial payment of VAT, the untimely payment and the leading of fictitious bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u190	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u191	Here, we should not be discussing, as it were, the political issue, which is the economic issue. And there's Vadim, the committee member, right. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, another. If we formed the Cabinet of Ministers, let them eventually figure out which one of them is taking the right position. I think it's one of those components of political reform today that I think is what the Constitutional Commission is looking at today. And these observations that we should accept in the House on constitutional reform if they are accepted as suggested by the Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u192	Thank you. Who else insists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, Nadrag Vasili, Lugansk Region. I represent a region where 32 per cent of the economy is coal mines, coal mines, mostly coal mines. For years now, energy-generating enterprises have not been fully reimbursed for this coal. And it's pay, it's social pay and everything. So if we move on to the situation that mines are only bound after the payment of coal, we will save no one's industry at all, we will save people in terms of wages, pensions, social contributions of local self-government and everything else. That's why this bill is important. Because the main debtor in front of miners is the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u194	Who else insists? Olga Hinzburg, Bronnikov. Please, very briefly. Olga Hinsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u195	Thank you, Hinzburg, 161st constituency. There is a question when considering this bill, there is a question that the adoption of this bill may lead to a failure to implement VAT revenue for 2003, and that is the question. It's standing. And we all understand that. Therefore, if this bill is to be considered or adopted, then the state budget should be regulated. This may then be the year 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u196	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Bronnikov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, I am grateful to all who have supported this law, because the foundation of our base will be saved. And I draw the attention of the Ministry of Finance not only to the fact that it is responsible for the normal financial system in our country, but also to the fact that all the money in the fuel and energy complex will be paid in the budget. There is no change in budgetary income. Since energy payments are now going well enough, they are being delayed. And businesses need to prepare for the winter, businesses need to restore their capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-21-m0.u198	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft law amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax has been completed. [[on tax cassation in PEK companies]] We will make a decision on the day of the vote. Thus, we have every reason to note that we have almost successfully completed the meeting schedule. Thus, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. I thank you for your work. From 15 hours of parliamentary hearing, "Demographic crisis in Ukraine. Its causes and consequences." Also, from 16 hours of work on the committees. Tomorrow is the day of the Supreme Council's decision. Thank you again for your hard work together.
